{"Environment": ["Our core values are also fundamental to our  Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices,  which emphasize Corporate Governance; Supply  Chain Management; Environmental, Health & Safety;  Sustainability Initiatives; and our Corporate Citizenship &  Human Rights Statement.", "From our foundation as a distributor and related low carbon footprint, to advising customers on energy savings  and eco-friendly products, we play an important role in  supporting the environment.", "Our \ufb02uid power operations offer products and services primarily used within industrial, off-highway mobile, and  technology applications.  Fluid power products include hydraulic and pneumatic technologies using liquids and gases  to transmit power, typically in smaller spaces than other forms of power transmission.  Hydraulic products offer high  power to weight ratios, high torque at low speeds, and power reliability, while pneumatic products are focused on  lightweight applications in need of speed and precision.  Our \ufb02uid power products and solutions are commonly used  for off-highway equipment, heavy industrial equipment and machines at factories, marine and offshore equipment,  factory automation, food processing equipment, packaging operations, and downstream energy process systems.  Operations are supported by a team of certi\ufb01ed \ufb02uid power specialists, mechanics, technicians, and engineers that  provide technical services ranging from system design and integration, electronic control integration, hydraulic  assemblies, repair and rebuild, manifold design and assembly, customized \ufb01ltration solutions, software programming  and repair, and hydraulic system retro\ufb01ts.", "ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS We believe that compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise  relating to environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or  competitive position.", "Volatility in product, energy, and other costs can affect our pro\ufb01tability.  Product manufacturers may adjust  the prices of products we distribute for many reasons, including changes in their costs for raw materials,  components, energy, labor, and tariffs and taxes on imports.", "While increases in the cost of products or energy could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if  severe, could also adversely impact us by creating de\ufb02ation in selling prices, which could cause our gross pro\ufb01t  margin to deteriorate.  Changes in energy or raw materials costs can also adversely affect customers; for example,  declines in oil, gas, and coal prices may negatively impact customers operating in those industries and, consequently,  our sales to those customers.", "Our core values are also fundamental to our  Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices,  which emphasize Corporate Governance; Supply  Chain Management; Environmental, Health & Safety;  Sustainability Initiatives; and our Corporate Citizenship &  Human Rights Statement.", "From our foundation as a distributor and related low carbon footprint, to advising customers on energy savings  and eco-friendly products, we play an important role in  supporting the environment.", "Our \ufb02uid power operations offer products and services primarily used within industrial, off-highway mobile, and  technology applications.  Fluid power products include hydraulic and pneumatic technologies using liquids and gases  to transmit power, typically in smaller spaces than other forms of power transmission.  Hydraulic products offer high  power to weight ratios, high torque at low speeds, and power reliability, while pneumatic products are focused on  lightweight applications in need of speed and precision.  Our \ufb02uid power products and solutions are commonly used  for off-highway equipment, heavy industrial equipment and machines at factories, marine and offshore equipment,  factory automation, food processing equipment, packaging operations, and downstream energy process systems.  Operations are supported by a team of certi\ufb01ed \ufb02uid power specialists, mechanics, technicians, and engineers that  provide technical services ranging from system design and integration, electronic control integration, hydraulic  assemblies, repair and rebuild, manifold design and assembly, customized \ufb01ltration solutions, software programming  and repair, and hydraulic system retro\ufb01ts.", "ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS We believe that compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise  relating to environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or  competitive position.", "Volatility in product, energy, and other costs can affect our pro\ufb01tability.  Product manufacturers may adjust  the prices of products we distribute for many reasons, including changes in their costs for raw materials,  components, energy, labor, and tariffs and taxes on imports.", "While increases in the cost of products or energy could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if  severe, could also adversely impact us by creating de\ufb02ation in selling prices, which could cause our gross pro\ufb01t  margin to deteriorate.  Changes in energy or raw materials costs can also adversely affect customers; for example,  declines in oil, gas, and coal prices may negatively impact customers operating in those industries and, consequently,  our sales to those customers.", "Our core values are also fundamental to our  Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices,  which emphasize Corporate Governance; Supply  Chain Management; Environmental, Health & Safety;  Sustainability Initiatives; and our Corporate Citizenship &  Human Rights Statement.", "From our foundation as a distributor and related low carbon footprint, to advising customers on energy savings  and eco-friendly products, we play an important role in  supporting the environment.", "Our \ufb02uid power operations offer products and services primarily used within industrial, off-highway mobile, and  technology applications.  Fluid power products include hydraulic and pneumatic technologies using liquids and gases  to transmit power, typically in smaller spaces than other forms of power transmission.  Hydraulic products offer high  power to weight ratios, high torque at low speeds, and power reliability, while pneumatic products are focused on  lightweight applications in need of speed and precision.  Our \ufb02uid power products and solutions are commonly used  for off-highway equipment, heavy industrial equipment and machines at factories, marine and offshore equipment,  factory automation, food processing equipment, packaging operations, and downstream energy process systems.  Operations are supported by a team of certi\ufb01ed \ufb02uid power specialists, mechanics, technicians, and engineers that  provide technical services ranging from system design and integration, electronic control integration, hydraulic  assemblies, repair and rebuild, manifold design and assembly, customized \ufb01ltration solutions, software programming  and repair, and hydraulic system retro\ufb01ts.", "ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS We believe that compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise  relating to environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or  competitive position.", "Volatility in product, energy, and other costs can affect our pro\ufb01tability.  Product manufacturers may adjust  the prices of products we distribute for many reasons, including changes in their costs for raw materials,  components, energy, labor, and tariffs and taxes on imports.", "While increases in the cost of products or energy could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if  severe, could also adversely impact us by creating de\ufb02ation in selling prices, which could cause our gross pro\ufb01t  margin to deteriorate.  Changes in energy or raw materials costs can also adversely affect customers; for example,  declines in oil, gas, and coal prices may negatively impact customers operating in those industries and, consequently,  our sales to those customers.", "Our core values are also fundamental to our  Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices,  which emphasize Corporate Governance; Supply  Chain Management; Environmental, Health & Safety;  Sustainability Initiatives; and our Corporate Citizenship &  Human Rights Statement.", "From our foundation as a distributor and related low carbon footprint, to advising customers on energy savings  and eco-friendly products, we play an important role in  supporting the environment.", "Our \ufb02uid power operations offer products and services primarily used within industrial, off-highway mobile, and  technology applications.  Fluid power products include hydraulic and pneumatic technologies using liquids and gases  to transmit power, typically in smaller spaces than other forms of power transmission.  Hydraulic products offer high  power to weight ratios, high torque at low speeds, and power reliability, while pneumatic products are focused on  lightweight applications in need of speed and precision.  Our \ufb02uid power products and solutions are commonly used  for off-highway equipment, heavy industrial equipment and machines at factories, marine and offshore equipment,  factory automation, food processing equipment, packaging operations, and downstream energy process systems.  Operations are supported by a team of certi\ufb01ed \ufb02uid power specialists, mechanics, technicians, and engineers that  provide technical services ranging from system design and integration, electronic control integration, hydraulic  assemblies, repair and rebuild, manifold design and assembly, customized \ufb01ltration solutions, software programming  and repair, and hydraulic system retro\ufb01ts.", "ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS We believe that compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise  relating to environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or  competitive position.", "Volatility in product, energy, and other costs can affect our pro\ufb01tability.  Product manufacturers may adjust  the prices of products we distribute for many reasons, including changes in their costs for raw materials,  components, energy, labor, and tariffs and taxes on imports.", "While increases in the cost of products or energy could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if  severe, could also adversely impact us by creating de\ufb02ation in selling prices, which could cause our gross pro\ufb01t  margin to deteriorate.  Changes in energy or raw materials costs can also adversely affect customers; for example,  declines in oil, gas, and coal prices may negatively impact customers operating in those industries and, consequently,  our sales to those customers.", "Our core values are also fundamental to our  Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices,  which emphasize Corporate Governance; Supply  Chain Management; Environmental, Health & Safety;  Sustainability Initiatives; and our Corporate Citizenship &  Human Rights Statement.", "From our foundation as a distributor and related low carbon footprint, to advising customers on energy savings  and eco-friendly products, we play an important role in  supporting the environment.", "Our \ufb02uid power operations offer products and services primarily used within industrial, off-highway mobile, and  technology applications.  Fluid power products include hydraulic and pneumatic technologies using liquids and gases  to transmit power, typically in smaller spaces than other forms of power transmission.  Hydraulic products offer high  power to weight ratios, high torque at low speeds, and power reliability, while pneumatic products are focused on  lightweight applications in need of speed and precision.  Our \ufb02uid power products and solutions are commonly used  for off-highway equipment, heavy industrial equipment and machines at factories, marine and offshore equipment,  factory automation, food processing equipment, packaging operations, and downstream energy process systems.  Operations are supported by a team of certi\ufb01ed \ufb02uid power specialists, mechanics, technicians, and engineers that  provide technical services ranging from system design and integration, electronic control integration, hydraulic  assemblies, repair and rebuild, manifold design and assembly, customized \ufb01ltration solutions, software programming  and repair, and hydraulic system retro\ufb01ts.", "ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS We believe that compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise  relating to environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or  competitive position.", "Volatility in product, energy, and other costs can affect our pro\ufb01tability.  Product manufacturers may adjust  the prices of products we distribute for many reasons, including changes in their costs for raw materials,  components, energy, labor, and tariffs and taxes on imports.", "While increases in the cost of products or energy could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if  severe, could also adversely impact us by creating de\ufb02ation in selling prices, which could cause our gross pro\ufb01t  margin to deteriorate.  Changes in energy or raw materials costs can also adversely affect customers; for example,  declines in oil, gas, and coal prices may negatively impact customers operating in those industries and, consequently,  our sales to those customers."], "Social": ["Fiscal 2020 had its share of challenges, but it also brought opportunities.", "On behalf of all of  us at Applied, we wish you all the best during this time.", "Our internet address is www.applied.com.  The following documents are available free of charge via hyperlink from  the investor relations area of our website: \u2022  Applied's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and  amendments to those reports, together with Section 16 insider bene\ufb01cial stock ownership reports - these  documents are posted as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically \ufb01led with, or furnished to,  the Securities and Exchange Commission \u2022  Applied's Code of Business Ethics \u2022  Applied's Board of Directors Governance Principles and Practices \u2022  Applied's Director Independence Standards \u2022  Charters for the Audit, Corporate Governance, and Executive Organization & Compensation Committees of  Applied's Board of Directors", "The information available via hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K.", "We require substantial working capital related to accounts receivable and inventories.  Signi\ufb01cant amounts of  inventory are carried to meet customers' delivery requirements.  We generally require payments for sales on account  within 30 days.  Returns are not considered to have a material effect on our working capital requirements.  We  believe these practices are generally consistent among companies in our industry.", "NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES   At June 30, 2020, we had approximately 6,200 employees.", "If we do not implement these initiatives effectively, or if for other reasons they are  unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected.", "For example, key suppliers could change the  following: the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing brands; the  geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations; supplier purchasing incentive or other support  programs; product purchase or stocking expectations; or the extent to which the suppliers seek to serve end users  directly.", "The purchasing incentives we earn from product suppliers can be impacted if we reduce our purchases in  response to declining customer demand.  Certain product suppliers have historically offered to their distributors,  including us, incentives for purchasing their products.  In addition to market or customer account-speci\ufb01c incentives,  certain suppliers pay incentives to the distributor for attaining speci\ufb01c purchase volumes during a program period.  In  some cases, to earn incentives, we must achieve year-over-year growth in purchases with the supplier.  When  demand for our products declines, we may be less inclined to add inventory to take advantage of certain incentive  programs, thereby potentially adversely impacting our pro\ufb01tability.", "In addition, a portion of our own distribution costs is  composed of fuel for our sales and delivery vehicles, freight, and utility expenses for our facilities.  Our ability to pass  along increases in our product and distribution costs in a timely manner to our customers depends on execution,  market conditions, and contractual limitations.  Failing to pass along price increases timely in an in\ufb02ationary  environment, or not maintaining sales volume while increasing prices, could signi\ufb01cantly reduce our pro\ufb01tability.", "proprietary or con\ufb01dential information, or the breach of customer, supplier, or employee information.  A security  incident involving our systems, or even an inadvertent failure to comply with data privacy and security laws and  regulations, could negatively impact our sales, damage our reputation, and cause us to incur unanticipated legal  liability, remediation costs, and other losses and expenses.", "Further, even if we successfully integrate the acquisitions with our operations, we may not be able to realize cost  savings, sales, pro\ufb01t levels, or other bene\ufb01ts that we anticipate from these acquisitions, either as to amount or in the  time frame we expect.  Our ability to realize anticipated bene\ufb01ts may be affected by a number of factors, including  the following: our ability to achieve planned operating results, to reduce duplicative expenses and inventory  effectively, and to consolidate facilities; economic and market factors; the incurrence of signi\ufb01cant integration costs  or charges in order to achieve those bene\ufb01ts; our ability to retain key product supplier authorizations, customer  relationships, and employees; our ability to address competitive, distribution, and regulatory challenges arising from  entering into new markets (geographic, product, service, end-industry, or otherwise), especially those in which we  may have limited or no direct experience; and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired  company.  In addition, acquisitions could place signi\ufb01cant demand on administrative, operational, and \ufb01nancial  resources.", "Goodwill, long-lived, and other intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become  impaired.  We review goodwill, long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identi\ufb01able  amortizing intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the", "Our ability to maintain effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting may be insuf\ufb01cient to allow us to  accurately report our \ufb01nancial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our \ufb01nancial statements to  become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  We require  effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our  \ufb01nancial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.  Internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting may not prevent or detect  misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or  overriding of controls, or fraud.  Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance  with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of \ufb01nancial statements.  If we cannot provide reasonable  assurance with respect to our \ufb01nancial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our \ufb01nancial statements could be  materially misstated, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.", "If we are not able to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting, including any failure to  implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience dif\ufb01culties in their implementation, our business,  \ufb01nancial condition and operating results could be harmed.  Any material weakness could affect investor con\ufb01dence  in the accuracy and completeness of our \ufb01nancial statements.  As a result, our ability to obtain any additional  \ufb01nancing, or additional \ufb01nancing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected.  This, in turn, could  materially and adversely affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, and the market value of our stock and require us to  incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures.  In addition, perceptions of the  Company among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts, and others could also be adversely  affected.", "We cannot assure that any material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and  maintain adequate internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting.  In addition, although we have been successful  historically in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to  prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair presentation of our \ufb01nancial statements included in our periodic  reports \ufb01led with the SEC.", "carrying amounts are not recoverable.  Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include  signi\ufb01cant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, signi\ufb01cant  underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset  before the end of its estimated useful life.  In 2020, we recorded a $131.0 million non-cash impairment charge for  goodwill associated with the FCX business.", "As of June 30, 2020, we had $540.6 million of goodwill and $343.2 million of other intangible assets, net.  We  assess all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment on a reporting unit basis.  The techniques used in our  qualitative assessment and goodwill impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that are  subject to change.  Although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and re\ufb02ect market  conditions forecasted at the assessment date, any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market  conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods.", "Tight credit markets could impact our ability to obtain \ufb01nancing on reasonable terms or increase the cost  of future \ufb01nancing.  Although the credit market turmoil of a decade ago did not have a signi\ufb01cant adverse impact  on our liquidity or borrowing costs, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt  increased.  If credit market volatility were to return, obtaining additional or replacement \ufb01nancing could be more  dif\ufb01cult and the cost of issuing new debt or replacing a credit facility could be higher than under our current  facilities.  Tight credit conditions could limit our ability to \ufb01nance acquisitions on terms acceptable to us.", "We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method by which LIBOR is  determined.  As of June 30, 2020, we had approximately $764.3 million of aggregate consolidated indebtedness  that was indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate (\u201cLIBOR\u201d).  In addition, as of June 30, 2020, approximately  $431.0 million of this variable rate debt was converted to a \ufb01xed rate through an interest rate swap.  The swap  agreement was entered into in January 2019 and is indexed to LIBOR.  Central banks around the world, including  the Federal Reserve, have commissioned working groups of market participants and of\ufb01cial sector representatives  with the goal of \ufb01nding suitable replacements for LIBOR based on observable market transactions.  It is expected that  a transition away from the widespread use of LIBOR to alternative rates will occur over the course of the next few  years.  The U.K.", "We are subject to litigation and regulatory risk due to the nature of our business, which may have a  material adverse effect on our business.  From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal  proceedings that arise from our business.  These may, for example, relate to product liability claims, commercial  disputes, personal injuries, or employment-related matters.  In addition, we could face claims over other matters,  such as claims arising from our status as a public company or government contractor, our engagement in  international trade, or otherwise relating to our compliance with a wide array of laws and regulations to which we  are subject.  Our contracts with federal, state, and local governments subject us to various laws and regulations  governing these contracts, increased costs of compliance, and the potential for government audits.  The defense and  ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings or inquiries may result in higher operating expenses, the  inability to participate in existing or future government contacts, or other adverse consequences, which could have a  material adverse effect on our business, \ufb01nancial condition, or results of operations.", "There is no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends on our common stock.  The timing, declaration,  amount, and payment of dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors and  depend on many factors, including our \ufb01nancial condition and results of operations, as well as applicable law and  business considerations that our Board of Directors considers relevant.  There can be no assurance that we will  continue to pay a quarterly dividend.", "Additionally, if we cannot generate suf\ufb01cient cash \ufb02ow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then  our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the Board of Directors, will be impaired and we may be required to  attempt to restructure or re\ufb01nance our debt, raise additional capital, or take other actions such as selling assets,  reducing, or delaying capital expenditures, or reducing our dividend.  There can be no assurance, however, that any  such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our  other credit and contractual arrangements.", "Our foreign operations' results are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable  exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated \ufb01nancial statements.  Fluctuations in currency exchange rates affect  our operating results and \ufb01nancial position, as well as the comparability of results between \ufb01nancial periods.", "Our business is subject to risks, some for which we maintain third-party insurance and some for which we  self-insure.  We may incur losses and be subject to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect  on our \ufb01nancial condition, results of operations, or cash \ufb02ows.  We maintain insurance policies that provide  limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business.  The policies  are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insured basis.  For  some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks  presented.  Because of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase  substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced  amounts of coverage.  As a result, we may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or procure other desirable  insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.  Even where insurance coverage applies, insurers may contest  their obligations to make payments.  Our \ufb01nancial condition, results of operations, and cash \ufb02ows could be  materially and adversely affected by losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured events, as well as by delays  in the payment of insurance proceeds, or the failure by insurers to make payments.", "\u2022 changes in accounting policies and practices that could impact our \ufb01nancial reporting and increase compliance  costs.", "Applied and/or one of its subsidiaries is a party to pending legal proceedings with respect to product liability,  commercial, personal injury, employment, and other matters.  Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of  these proceedings or the range of reasonably possible loss, we do not expect, based on circumstances currently  known, that the ultimate resolution of any of these proceedings will have, either individually or in the aggregate, a  material adverse effect on Applied's consolidated \ufb01nancial position, results of operations, or cash \ufb02ows.", "Our earnings per share was $0.62 in \ufb01scal 2020 versus $3.68 in \ufb01scal year 2019.", "Our primary source of capital is cash \ufb02ow from operations, supplemented as necessary by bank borrowings or other  sources of debt.  At June 30, 2020 we had total debt obligations outstanding of $935.3 million compared to $959.8  million at June 30, 2019.  Management expects that our existing cash, cash equivalents, funds available under the  revolving credit facility, and cash provided from operations, will be suf\ufb01cient to \ufb01nance normal working capital needs  in each of the countries we operate in, payment of dividends, acquisitions, investments in properties, facilities and  equipment, debt service, and the purchase of additional Company common stock.  Management also believes that  additional long-term debt and line of credit \ufb01nancing could be obtained based on the Company\u2019s credit standing  and \ufb01nancial strength.", "The increase in dividends over the year is the result of regular increases in our dividend payout rates.  We paid  dividends of $1.26 and $1.22 per share in \ufb01scal 2020 and 2019, respectively.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August 31, 2021.  The maximum availability under the AR Securitization Facility is $175.0  million.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings of our customers, customer concentration levels  or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be  able to fully access the $175.0 million of funding available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization  Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the  Service Center Based Distribution reportable segment\u2019s U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The Company  uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively reducing  borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR and fees on the AR  Securitization Facility are 0.90% per year.  The interest rate on the AR Securitization Facility as of June 30, 2020 and  June 30, 2019 was 1.07% and 3.33%, respectively.", "The Company did not repurchase shares in \ufb01scal 2020.  In \ufb01scal 2019 and 2018, we repurchased 192,082 and  393,300 shares of the Company\u2019s common stock, respectively, at an average price per share of $58.10,and $57.92,  respectively.", "We expect capital expenditures for \ufb01scal 2021 to be in the $15.0 million to $20.0 million range, primarily consisting  of capital associated with additional information technology equipment and infrastructure investments.  Depreciation  for \ufb01scal 2021 is expected to be in the range of $22.5 million to $23.5 million.", "The Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company\u2019s stock.  These purchases may    be made in open market and negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending upon market conditions.     At June 30, 2020, we had authorization to purchase an additional 864,618 shares.", "Approximately 4.6% of our accounts receivable balances are more than 90 days past due at June 30, 2020  compared to 3.0% at June 30, 2019.  On an overall basis, our provision for losses from uncollected receivables  represents 0.43% of our sales in the year ended June 30, 2020, compared to 0.12% of sales for the year ended  June 30, 2019.  This increase primarily relates to provisions recorded in the current year for customer credit  deterioration and bankruptcies primarily in the U.S. and Mexican operations of the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.  Historically, this percentage is around 0.10% to 0.15%.  Management believes the overall receivables  aging and provision for losses on uncollected receivables are at reasonable levels.", "Purchase orders for inventory and other goods and services are not included in our estimates as we are unable to  aggregate the amount of such purchase orders that represent enforceable and legally binding agreements specifying  all signi\ufb01cant terms.  The previous table includes the gross liability for unrecognized income tax bene\ufb01ts including  interest and penalties in the \u201cOther\u201d column as the Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate regarding the  timing of cash settlements, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.", "Inventories are valued at the average cost method, using the last-in, \ufb01rst-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories, and  the average cost method for foreign inventories.  We adopted the link chain dollar value LIFO method for accounting  for U.S. inventories in \ufb01scal 1974.  Approximately 17.3% of our domestic inventory dollars relate to LIFO layers  added in the 1970s.  The excess of average cost over LIFO cost is $155.5 million as re\ufb02ected in our consolidated  balance sheet at June 30, 2020.  The Company maintains \ufb01ve LIFO pools based on the following product groupings:  bearings, power transmission products, rubber products, \ufb02uid power products and other products.", "We evaluate the collectibility of trade accounts receivable based on a combination of factors.  Initially, we estimate  an allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net sales based on historical bad debt experience.  This initial  estimate is adjusted based on recent trends of certain customers and industries estimated to be a greater credit risk,  trends within the entire customer pool and changes in the overall aging of accounts receivable.  While we have a  large customer base that is geographically dispersed, a general economic downturn in any of the industry segments  in which we operate could result in higher than expected defaults, and therefore, the need to revise estimates for  bad debts.  Accounts are written off against the allowance when it becomes evident that collection will not occur.", "As of June 30, 2020 and 2019, our allowance for doubtful accounts was 2.9% and 1.9% of gross receivables,  respectively.  Our provision for losses on accounts receivable was $14.1 million, $4.1 million and $2.8 million in \ufb01scal  2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.", "We evaluate goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually as of January 1, and whenever an event  occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting  unit is less than its carrying amount.  Events or circumstances that may result in an impairment review include  changes in macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall \ufb01nancial  performance, other relevant entity-speci\ufb01c events, speci\ufb01c events affecting the reporting unit or sustained decrease  in share price.  Each year, the Company may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is  more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.  If impairment is indicated in  the qualitative assessment, or, if management elects to initially perform a quantitative assessment of goodwill, the  impairment test uses a one-step approach.  The fair value of a reporting unit is compared with its carrying amount,  including goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit  is not impaired.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge would be  recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, not to exceed the  total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.  Goodwill on our consolidated \ufb01nancial statements relates to both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and  the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Company has eight reporting units for which an annual goodwill  impairment assessment was performed as of January 1, 2020.  The Company concluded that seven of the reporting  units\u2019 fair value exceeded their carrying amounts by at least 10% as of January 1, 2020.   Speci\ufb01cally, the Canada  reporting unit's fair value exceeded its carrying value by 12%, and the Mexico reporting unit's fair value exceeded its  carrying value by 14%.  The Canada and Mexico reporting units have goodwill balances of $27.2 million and $5.2  million, respectively, as of June 30, 2020.  The carrying value of the \ufb01nal reporting unit, which is comprised of the  FCX operations, exceeded the fair value, resulting in goodwill impairment of $131.0 million.  The non-cash  impairment charge was the result of the overall decline in the industrial economy, speci\ufb01cally slower demand in  FCX's end markets.  This led to reduced spending by customers and reduced revenue expectations.  As of June 30,  2020, the Company's goodwill balance was $540.6 million, of which $309.0 million relates to the FCX reporting  unit.  If the Company does not achieve forecasted sales growth and margin improvements goodwill could be further  impaired.", "We discuss certain of these matters and other risk factors more fully throughout our Form 10-K, as well as  other of our \ufb01lings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.", "Our market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as changes in interest rates.   We occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall \ufb01nancial risk management policy, but do not use  derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.", "Because we operate throughout North America, Australia and New Zealand and approximately 13.1% of our \ufb01scal  year 2020 net sales were generated outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates can impact our  \ufb01nancial position, results of operations and competitive position.  The \ufb01nancial statements of foreign subsidiaries are  translated into their U.S. dollar equivalents at end-of-period exchange rates for assets and liabilities, while income  and expenses are translated at average monthly exchange rates.  Translation gains and losses are components of  other comprehensive loss as reported in the statements of consolidated comprehensive income.  Transaction gains  and losses arising from \ufb02uctuations in currency exchange rates on transactions denominated in currencies other than  the functional currency are recognized in the statements of consolidated income as a component of other income,  net.  Applied does not currently hedge the net investments in our foreign operations.", "During the course of the \ufb01scal year, the Canadian, Mexican, Australian and New Zealand currency exchange rates  decreased in relation to the U.S. dollar by 4.0%, 17.1%, 1.8% and 4.0%, respectively.  In the twelve months ended  June 30, 2020, we experienced net foreign currency translation losses totaling $18.5 million, which were included in  other comprehensive loss.  We utilize a sensitivity analysis to measure the potential impact on earnings based on a  hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency rates.  Excluding the non-cash goodwill impairment charge recorded in  \ufb01scal 2020, a 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies that affect the Company from the  levels experienced during the year ended June 30, 2020 would have resulted in a $1.3 million decrease in net  income for the year ended June 30, 2020.  Excluding the non-cash goodwill impairment charge recorded in \ufb01scal  2020, a 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies that affect the Company from the levels  experienced during the year ended June 30, 2020 would have resulted in a $1.3 million increase in net income for  the year ended June 30, 2020.", "Our primary exposure to interest rate risk results from our outstanding debt obligations with variable interest rates.   The levels of fees and interest charged on our various debt facilities are based upon leverage levels and market  interest rates.", "Our variable interest rate debt facilities outstanding include our \ufb01ve-year credit facility, which provides for a revolving  credit facility with a capacity of up to $250.0 million in borrowings with no balance outstanding at June 30, 2020, a  $780.0 million term loan, of which $589.3 million was outstanding at June 30, 2020, and a $175.0 million trade  receivable securitization facility, all of which was outstanding at June 30, 2020.  In January 2019, the Company  entered into an interest rate swap on $463.0 million of the Company\u2019s U.S. dollar-denominated unsecured variable  rate debt.  The notional amount of the interest rate swap was $431.0 million as of June 30, 2020.  The interest rate  swap effectively converts a portion of the \ufb02oating rate interest payment into a \ufb01xed rate interest payment.  The  Company designated the interest rate swap as a pay-\ufb01xed, receive-\ufb02oating interest rate swap instrument and is  accounting for this derivative as a cash \ufb02ow hedge.  Fixed interest rate debt facilities include $170.0 million  outstanding under our unsecured shelf facility agreement, as well as $1.0 million of assumed debt from the purchase  of our headquarters facility.  We had total average variable interest rate bank borrowings of $782.0 million during  \ufb01scal 2020.  The impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the interest rates on our average variable interest rate  bank borrowings (not considering the impact of our interest rate swap) would have resulted in a $7.8 million  increase in interest expense.  Due to the interest rate swap, the impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the  variable interest rate would have reduced net cash interest paid by $4.3 million.  Changes in market interest rates  would also impact interest rates on these facilities.", "For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the \u201cLiquidity and Capital Resources\u201d section of  \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\u201d in Item 7 and notes 6 and  7 to the consolidated \ufb01nancial statements in Item 8.  That information is also incorporated here by reference.  In  addition, see Item 1A, \u201cRisk Factors,\u201d for additional risk factors relating to our business.", "These \ufb01nancial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an  opinion on the Company's \ufb01nancial statements based on our audits.  We are a public accounting \ufb01rm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.", "We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the \ufb01nancial statements are free of material  misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.  Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material  misstatement of the \ufb01nancial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to  those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in  the \ufb01nancial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and signi\ufb01cant estimates  made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the \ufb01nancial statements.  We believe that our  audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the \ufb01nancial  statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to  accounts or disclosures that are material to the \ufb01nancial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging,  subjective, or complex judgments.  The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on  the \ufb01nancial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing  a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.", "Our audit procedures related to the forecasts of future revenues and EBITDA (\u201cforecasts\u201d), and the selection of the  discount rate and selection of multiples applied to management\u2019s forecasted revenues and EBITDA estimates (\u201cmarket  multiples\u201d) for the FCX and Canada reporting units included the following, among others: \u2022 We tested the effectiveness of controls over management\u2019s goodwill impairment evaluation, such as controls  related to management\u2019s forecasts and the selection of the discount rate and market multiples used. \u2022 We evaluated management\u2019s ability to accurately forecast by comparing actual results to management\u2019s  historical forecasts. \u2022 We evaluated the reasonableness of management\u2019s forecasts by comparing the forecasts to (1) historical  results, (2) internal communications to management and the Board of Directors, and (3) forecasted information  included in industry reports for the various industries the reporting units operate within.  \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the discount rate, including testing the underlying  source information and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, and developing a range of independent  estimates and comparing those to the discount rate selected by management. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the market multiples by evaluating the selected  comparable publicly traded companies and the adjustments made for differences in growth prospects and risk  pro\ufb01les between the reporting units and the comparable publicly traded companies.  We tested the underlying  source information and mathematical accuracy of the calculations. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the fair value of the reporting units based upon  reconciling the fair values of the reporting units to the market capitalization of the Company.", "We have served as the Company's auditor since 1966.", "The difference between the opening and closing balances of the Company's contract assets primarily results from  the timing difference between the Company's performance and when the customer is billed.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August 31, 2021.  The maximum availability under the AR Securitization Facility is  $175,000.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings of our customers, customer concentration  levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may  not be able to fully access the $175,000 of funding available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR  Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the  amount of the Service Center Based Distribution reportable segment\u2019s U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.   The Company uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt,  effectively reducing borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR and  fees on the AR Securitization Facility are 0.90% per year.  The interest rate on the AR Securitization Facility as of  June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019 was 1.07% and 3.33%, respectively.", "As of June 30, 2020, the Company had accumulated undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of  approximately $114,070.  The vast majority of such earnings have previously been subjected to the one-time  transition tax or the Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (\"GILTI\") inclusion implemented by the Act.  Therefore, any  additional taxes due with respect to such earnings or the excess of the amount for \ufb01nancial reporting over the tax  basis of our foreign investments would generally be limited to foreign withholding and state income taxes.  In  addition, we expect foreign tax credits would be available to either offset or partially reduce the tax cost in the event  of a distribution.  We intend, however, to inde\ufb01nitely reinvest these earnings and expect future U.S. cash generation  to be suf\ufb01cient to meet future U.S. cash needs.", "We have evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to June 30, 2020 through the date the \ufb01nancial  statements were issued.", "CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING", "Applied has a code of ethics, named the Code of Business Ethics, that applies to our employees, including our  principal executive of\ufb01cer, principal \ufb01nancial of\ufb01cer, and principal accounting of\ufb01cer.  The Code of Business Ethics is  posted via hyperlink at the investor relations area of our www.applied.com website.  In addition, amendments to  and waivers from the Code of Business Ethics will be disclosed promptly at the same location.", "Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this  report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.", "Cumulative total return assumes reinvestment of dividends.", "Fiscal 2020 had its share of challenges, but it also brought opportunities.", "On behalf of all of  us at Applied, we wish you all the best during this time.", "Our internet address is www.applied.com.  The following documents are available free of charge via hyperlink from  the investor relations area of our website: \u2022  Applied's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and  amendments to those reports, together with Section 16 insider bene\ufb01cial stock ownership reports - these  documents are posted as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically \ufb01led with, or furnished to,  the Securities and Exchange Commission \u2022  Applied's Code of Business Ethics \u2022  Applied's Board of Directors Governance Principles and Practices \u2022  Applied's Director Independence Standards \u2022  Charters for the Audit, Corporate Governance, and Executive Organization & Compensation Committees of  Applied's Board of Directors", "The information available via hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K.", "We require substantial working capital related to accounts receivable and inventories.  Signi\ufb01cant amounts of  inventory are carried to meet customers' delivery requirements.  We generally require payments for sales on account  within 30 days.  Returns are not considered to have a material effect on our working capital requirements.  We  believe these practices are generally consistent among companies in our industry.", "NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES   At June 30, 2020, we had approximately 6,200 employees.", "If we do not implement these initiatives effectively, or if for other reasons they are  unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected.", "For example, key suppliers could change the  following: the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing brands; the  geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations; supplier purchasing incentive or other support  programs; product purchase or stocking expectations; or the extent to which the suppliers seek to serve end users  directly.", "The purchasing incentives we earn from product suppliers can be impacted if we reduce our purchases in  response to declining customer demand.  Certain product suppliers have historically offered to their distributors,  including us, incentives for purchasing their products.  In addition to market or customer account-speci\ufb01c incentives,  certain suppliers pay incentives to the distributor for attaining speci\ufb01c purchase volumes during a program period.  In  some cases, to earn incentives, we must achieve year-over-year growth in purchases with the supplier.  When  demand for our products declines, we may be less inclined to add inventory to take advantage of certain incentive  programs, thereby potentially adversely impacting our pro\ufb01tability.", "In addition, a portion of our own distribution costs is  composed of fuel for our sales and delivery vehicles, freight, and utility expenses for our facilities.  Our ability to pass  along increases in our product and distribution costs in a timely manner to our customers depends on execution,  market conditions, and contractual limitations.  Failing to pass along price increases timely in an in\ufb02ationary  environment, or not maintaining sales volume while increasing prices, could signi\ufb01cantly reduce our pro\ufb01tability.", "proprietary or con\ufb01dential information, or the breach of customer, supplier, or employee information.  A security  incident involving our systems, or even an inadvertent failure to comply with data privacy and security laws and  regulations, could negatively impact our sales, damage our reputation, and cause us to incur unanticipated legal  liability, remediation costs, and other losses and expenses.", "Further, even if we successfully integrate the acquisitions with our operations, we may not be able to realize cost  savings, sales, pro\ufb01t levels, or other bene\ufb01ts that we anticipate from these acquisitions, either as to amount or in the  time frame we expect.  Our ability to realize anticipated bene\ufb01ts may be affected by a number of factors, including  the following: our ability to achieve planned operating results, to reduce duplicative expenses and inventory  effectively, and to consolidate facilities; economic and market factors; the incurrence of signi\ufb01cant integration costs  or charges in order to achieve those bene\ufb01ts; our ability to retain key product supplier authorizations, customer  relationships, and employees; our ability to address competitive, distribution, and regulatory challenges arising from  entering into new markets (geographic, product, service, end-industry, or otherwise), especially those in which we  may have limited or no direct experience; and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired  company.  In addition, acquisitions could place signi\ufb01cant demand on administrative, operational, and \ufb01nancial  resources.", "Goodwill, long-lived, and other intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become  impaired.  We review goodwill, long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identi\ufb01able  amortizing intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the", "Our ability to maintain effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting may be insuf\ufb01cient to allow us to  accurately report our \ufb01nancial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our \ufb01nancial statements to  become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  We require  effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our  \ufb01nancial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.  Internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting may not prevent or detect  misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or  overriding of controls, or fraud.  Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance  with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of \ufb01nancial statements.  If we cannot provide reasonable  assurance with respect to our \ufb01nancial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our \ufb01nancial statements could be  materially misstated, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.", "If we are not able to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting, including any failure to  implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience dif\ufb01culties in their implementation, our business,  \ufb01nancial condition and operating results could be harmed.  Any material weakness could affect investor con\ufb01dence  in the accuracy and completeness of our \ufb01nancial statements.  As a result, our ability to obtain any additional  \ufb01nancing, or additional \ufb01nancing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected.  This, in turn, could  materially and adversely affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, and the market value of our stock and require us to  incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures.  In addition, perceptions of the  Company among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts, and others could also be adversely  affected.", "We cannot assure that any material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and  maintain adequate internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting.  In addition, although we have been successful  historically in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to  prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair presentation of our \ufb01nancial statements included in our periodic  reports \ufb01led with the SEC.", "carrying amounts are not recoverable.  Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include  signi\ufb01cant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, signi\ufb01cant  underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset  before the end of its estimated useful life.  In 2020, we recorded a $131.0 million non-cash impairment charge for  goodwill associated with the FCX business.", "As of June 30, 2020, we had $540.6 million of goodwill and $343.2 million of other intangible assets, net.  We  assess all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment on a reporting unit basis.  The techniques used in our  qualitative assessment and goodwill impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that are  subject to change.  Although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and re\ufb02ect market  conditions forecasted at the assessment date, any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market  conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods.", "Tight credit markets could impact our ability to obtain \ufb01nancing on reasonable terms or increase the cost  of future \ufb01nancing.  Although the credit market turmoil of a decade ago did not have a signi\ufb01cant adverse impact  on our liquidity or borrowing costs, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt  increased.  If credit market volatility were to return, obtaining additional or replacement \ufb01nancing could be more  dif\ufb01cult and the cost of issuing new debt or replacing a credit facility could be higher than under our current  facilities.  Tight credit conditions could limit our ability to \ufb01nance acquisitions on terms acceptable to us.", "We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method by which LIBOR is  determined.  As of June 30, 2020, we had approximately $764.3 million of aggregate consolidated indebtedness  that was indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate (\u201cLIBOR\u201d).  In addition, as of June 30, 2020, approximately  $431.0 million of this variable rate debt was converted to a \ufb01xed rate through an interest rate swap.  The swap  agreement was entered into in January 2019 and is indexed to LIBOR.  Central banks around the world, including  the Federal Reserve, have commissioned working groups of market participants and of\ufb01cial sector representatives  with the goal of \ufb01nding suitable replacements for LIBOR based on observable market transactions.  It is expected that  a transition away from the widespread use of LIBOR to alternative rates will occur over the course of the next few  years.  The U.K.", "We are subject to litigation and regulatory risk due to the nature of our business, which may have a  material adverse effect on our business.  From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal  proceedings that arise from our business.  These may, for example, relate to product liability claims, commercial  disputes, personal injuries, or employment-related matters.  In addition, we could face claims over other matters,  such as claims arising from our status as a public company or government contractor, our engagement in  international trade, or otherwise relating to our compliance with a wide array of laws and regulations to which we  are subject.  Our contracts with federal, state, and local governments subject us to various laws and regulations  governing these contracts, increased costs of compliance, and the potential for government audits.  The defense and  ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings or inquiries may result in higher operating expenses, the  inability to participate in existing or future government contacts, or other adverse consequences, which could have a  material adverse effect on our business, \ufb01nancial condition, or results of operations.", "There is no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends on our common stock.  The timing, declaration,  amount, and payment of dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors and  depend on many factors, including our \ufb01nancial condition and results of operations, as well as applicable law and  business considerations that our Board of Directors considers relevant.  There can be no assurance that we will  continue to pay a quarterly dividend.", "Additionally, if we cannot generate suf\ufb01cient cash \ufb02ow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then  our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the Board of Directors, will be impaired and we may be required to  attempt to restructure or re\ufb01nance our debt, raise additional capital, or take other actions such as selling assets,  reducing, or delaying capital expenditures, or reducing our dividend.  There can be no assurance, however, that any  such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our  other credit and contractual arrangements.", "Our foreign operations' results are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable  exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated \ufb01nancial statements.  Fluctuations in currency exchange rates affect  our operating results and \ufb01nancial position, as well as the comparability of results between \ufb01nancial periods.", "Our business is subject to risks, some for which we maintain third-party insurance and some for which we  self-insure.  We may incur losses and be subject to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect  on our \ufb01nancial condition, results of operations, or cash \ufb02ows.  We maintain insurance policies that provide  limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business.  The policies  are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insured basis.  For  some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks  presented.  Because of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase  substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced  amounts of coverage.  As a result, we may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or procure other desirable  insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.  Even where insurance coverage applies, insurers may contest  their obligations to make payments.  Our \ufb01nancial condition, results of operations, and cash \ufb02ows could be  materially and adversely affected by losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured events, as well as by delays  in the payment of insurance proceeds, or the failure by insurers to make payments.", "\u2022 changes in accounting policies and practices that could impact our \ufb01nancial reporting and increase compliance  costs.", "Applied and/or one of its subsidiaries is a party to pending legal proceedings with respect to product liability,  commercial, personal injury, employment, and other matters.  Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of  these proceedings or the range of reasonably possible loss, we do not expect, based on circumstances currently  known, that the ultimate resolution of any of these proceedings will have, either individually or in the aggregate, a  material adverse effect on Applied's consolidated \ufb01nancial position, results of operations, or cash \ufb02ows.", "Our earnings per share was $0.62 in \ufb01scal 2020 versus $3.68 in \ufb01scal year 2019.", "Our primary source of capital is cash \ufb02ow from operations, supplemented as necessary by bank borrowings or other  sources of debt.  At June 30, 2020 we had total debt obligations outstanding of $935.3 million compared to $959.8  million at June 30, 2019.  Management expects that our existing cash, cash equivalents, funds available under the  revolving credit facility, and cash provided from operations, will be suf\ufb01cient to \ufb01nance normal working capital needs  in each of the countries we operate in, payment of dividends, acquisitions, investments in properties, facilities and  equipment, debt service, and the purchase of additional Company common stock.  Management also believes that  additional long-term debt and line of credit \ufb01nancing could be obtained based on the Company\u2019s credit standing  and \ufb01nancial strength.", "The increase in dividends over the year is the result of regular increases in our dividend payout rates.  We paid  dividends of $1.26 and $1.22 per share in \ufb01scal 2020 and 2019, respectively.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August 31, 2021.  The maximum availability under the AR Securitization Facility is $175.0  million.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings of our customers, customer concentration levels  or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be  able to fully access the $175.0 million of funding available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization  Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the  Service Center Based Distribution reportable segment\u2019s U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The Company  uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively reducing  borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR and fees on the AR  Securitization Facility are 0.90% per year.  The interest rate on the AR Securitization Facility as of June 30, 2020 and  June 30, 2019 was 1.07% and 3.33%, respectively.", "The Company did not repurchase shares in \ufb01scal 2020.  In \ufb01scal 2019 and 2018, we repurchased 192,082 and  393,300 shares of the Company\u2019s common stock, respectively, at an average price per share of $58.10,and $57.92,  respectively.", "We expect capital expenditures for \ufb01scal 2021 to be in the $15.0 million to $20.0 million range, primarily consisting  of capital associated with additional information technology equipment and infrastructure investments.  Depreciation  for \ufb01scal 2021 is expected to be in the range of $22.5 million to $23.5 million.", "The Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company\u2019s stock.  These purchases may    be made in open market and negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending upon market conditions.     At June 30, 2020, we had authorization to purchase an additional 864,618 shares.", "Approximately 4.6% of our accounts receivable balances are more than 90 days past due at June 30, 2020  compared to 3.0% at June 30, 2019.  On an overall basis, our provision for losses from uncollected receivables  represents 0.43% of our sales in the year ended June 30, 2020, compared to 0.12% of sales for the year ended  June 30, 2019.  This increase primarily relates to provisions recorded in the current year for customer credit  deterioration and bankruptcies primarily in the U.S. and Mexican operations of the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.  Historically, this percentage is around 0.10% to 0.15%.  Management believes the overall receivables  aging and provision for losses on uncollected receivables are at reasonable levels.", "Purchase orders for inventory and other goods and services are not included in our estimates as we are unable to  aggregate the amount of such purchase orders that represent enforceable and legally binding agreements specifying  all signi\ufb01cant terms.  The previous table includes the gross liability for unrecognized income tax bene\ufb01ts including  interest and penalties in the \u201cOther\u201d column as the Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate regarding the  timing of cash settlements, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.", "Inventories are valued at the average cost method, using the last-in, \ufb01rst-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories, and  the average cost method for foreign inventories.  We adopted the link chain dollar value LIFO method for accounting  for U.S. inventories in \ufb01scal 1974.  Approximately 17.3% of our domestic inventory dollars relate to LIFO layers  added in the 1970s.  The excess of average cost over LIFO cost is $155.5 million as re\ufb02ected in our consolidated  balance sheet at June 30, 2020.  The Company maintains \ufb01ve LIFO pools based on the following product groupings:  bearings, power transmission products, rubber products, \ufb02uid power products and other products.", "We evaluate the collectibility of trade accounts receivable based on a combination of factors.  Initially, we estimate  an allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net sales based on historical bad debt experience.  This initial  estimate is adjusted based on recent trends of certain customers and industries estimated to be a greater credit risk,  trends within the entire customer pool and changes in the overall aging of accounts receivable.  While we have a  large customer base that is geographically dispersed, a general economic downturn in any of the industry segments  in which we operate could result in higher than expected defaults, and therefore, the need to revise estimates for  bad debts.  Accounts are written off against the allowance when it becomes evident that collection will not occur.", "As of June 30, 2020 and 2019, our allowance for doubtful accounts was 2.9% and 1.9% of gross receivables,  respectively.  Our provision for losses on accounts receivable was $14.1 million, $4.1 million and $2.8 million in \ufb01scal  2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.", "We evaluate goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually as of January 1, and whenever an event  occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting  unit is less than its carrying amount.  Events or circumstances that may result in an impairment review include  changes in macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall \ufb01nancial  performance, other relevant entity-speci\ufb01c events, speci\ufb01c events affecting the reporting unit or sustained decrease  in share price.  Each year, the Company may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is  more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.  If impairment is indicated in  the qualitative assessment, or, if management elects to initially perform a quantitative assessment of goodwill, the  impairment test uses a one-step approach.  The fair value of a reporting unit is compared with its carrying amount,  including goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit  is not impaired.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge would be  recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, not to exceed the  total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.  Goodwill on our consolidated \ufb01nancial statements relates to both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and  the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Company has eight reporting units for which an annual goodwill  impairment assessment was performed as of January 1, 2020.  The Company concluded that seven of the reporting  units\u2019 fair value exceeded their carrying amounts by at least 10% as of January 1, 2020.   Speci\ufb01cally, the Canada  reporting unit's fair value exceeded its carrying value by 12%, and the Mexico reporting unit's fair value exceeded its  carrying value by 14%.  The Canada and Mexico reporting units have goodwill balances of $27.2 million and $5.2  million, respectively, as of June 30, 2020.  The carrying value of the \ufb01nal reporting unit, which is comprised of the  FCX operations, exceeded the fair value, resulting in goodwill impairment of $131.0 million.  The non-cash  impairment charge was the result of the overall decline in the industrial economy, speci\ufb01cally slower demand in  FCX's end markets.  This led to reduced spending by customers and reduced revenue expectations.  As of June 30,  2020, the Company's goodwill balance was $540.6 million, of which $309.0 million relates to the FCX reporting  unit.  If the Company does not achieve forecasted sales growth and margin improvements goodwill could be further  impaired.", "We discuss certain of these matters and other risk factors more fully throughout our Form 10-K, as well as  other of our \ufb01lings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.", "Our market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as changes in interest rates.   We occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall \ufb01nancial risk management policy, but do not use  derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.", "Because we operate throughout North America, Australia and New Zealand and approximately 13.1% of our \ufb01scal  year 2020 net sales were generated outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates can impact our  \ufb01nancial position, results of operations and competitive position.  The \ufb01nancial statements of foreign subsidiaries are  translated into their U.S. dollar equivalents at end-of-period exchange rates for assets and liabilities, while income  and expenses are translated at average monthly exchange rates.  Translation gains and losses are components of  other comprehensive loss as reported in the statements of consolidated comprehensive income.  Transaction gains  and losses arising from \ufb02uctuations in currency exchange rates on transactions denominated in currencies other than  the functional currency are recognized in the statements of consolidated income as a component of other income,  net.  Applied does not currently hedge the net investments in our foreign operations.", "During the course of the \ufb01scal year, the Canadian, Mexican, Australian and New Zealand currency exchange rates  decreased in relation to the U.S. dollar by 4.0%, 17.1%, 1.8% and 4.0%, respectively.  In the twelve months ended  June 30, 2020, we experienced net foreign currency translation losses totaling $18.5 million, which were included in  other comprehensive loss.  We utilize a sensitivity analysis to measure the potential impact on earnings based on a  hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency rates.  Excluding the non-cash goodwill impairment charge recorded in  \ufb01scal 2020, a 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies that affect the Company from the  levels experienced during the year ended June 30, 2020 would have resulted in a $1.3 million decrease in net  income for the year ended June 30, 2020.  Excluding the non-cash goodwill impairment charge recorded in \ufb01scal  2020, a 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies that affect the Company from the levels  experienced during the year ended June 30, 2020 would have resulted in a $1.3 million increase in net income for  the year ended June 30, 2020.", "Our primary exposure to interest rate risk results from our outstanding debt obligations with variable interest rates.   The levels of fees and interest charged on our various debt facilities are based upon leverage levels and market  interest rates.", "Our variable interest rate debt facilities outstanding include our \ufb01ve-year credit facility, which provides for a revolving  credit facility with a capacity of up to $250.0 million in borrowings with no balance outstanding at June 30, 2020, a  $780.0 million term loan, of which $589.3 million was outstanding at June 30, 2020, and a $175.0 million trade  receivable securitization facility, all of which was outstanding at June 30, 2020.  In January 2019, the Company  entered into an interest rate swap on $463.0 million of the Company\u2019s U.S. dollar-denominated unsecured variable  rate debt.  The notional amount of the interest rate swap was $431.0 million as of June 30, 2020.  The interest rate  swap effectively converts a portion of the \ufb02oating rate interest payment into a \ufb01xed rate interest payment.  The  Company designated the interest rate swap as a pay-\ufb01xed, receive-\ufb02oating interest rate swap instrument and is  accounting for this derivative as a cash \ufb02ow hedge.  Fixed interest rate debt facilities include $170.0 million  outstanding under our unsecured shelf facility agreement, as well as $1.0 million of assumed debt from the purchase  of our headquarters facility.  We had total average variable interest rate bank borrowings of $782.0 million during  \ufb01scal 2020.  The impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the interest rates on our average variable interest rate  bank borrowings (not considering the impact of our interest rate swap) would have resulted in a $7.8 million  increase in interest expense.  Due to the interest rate swap, the impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the  variable interest rate would have reduced net cash interest paid by $4.3 million.  Changes in market interest rates  would also impact interest rates on these facilities.", "For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the \u201cLiquidity and Capital Resources\u201d section of  \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\u201d in Item 7 and notes 6 and  7 to the consolidated \ufb01nancial statements in Item 8.  That information is also incorporated here by reference.  In  addition, see Item 1A, \u201cRisk Factors,\u201d for additional risk factors relating to our business.", "These \ufb01nancial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an  opinion on the Company's \ufb01nancial statements based on our audits.  We are a public accounting \ufb01rm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.", "We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the \ufb01nancial statements are free of material  misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.  Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material  misstatement of the \ufb01nancial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to  those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in  the \ufb01nancial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and signi\ufb01cant estimates  made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the \ufb01nancial statements.  We believe that our  audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the \ufb01nancial  statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to  accounts or disclosures that are material to the \ufb01nancial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging,  subjective, or complex judgments.  The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on  the \ufb01nancial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing  a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.", "Our audit procedures related to the forecasts of future revenues and EBITDA (\u201cforecasts\u201d), and the selection of the  discount rate and selection of multiples applied to management\u2019s forecasted revenues and EBITDA estimates (\u201cmarket  multiples\u201d) for the FCX and Canada reporting units included the following, among others: \u2022 We tested the effectiveness of controls over management\u2019s goodwill impairment evaluation, such as controls  related to management\u2019s forecasts and the selection of the discount rate and market multiples used. \u2022 We evaluated management\u2019s ability to accurately forecast by comparing actual results to management\u2019s  historical forecasts. \u2022 We evaluated the reasonableness of management\u2019s forecasts by comparing the forecasts to (1) historical  results, (2) internal communications to management and the Board of Directors, and (3) forecasted information  included in industry reports for the various industries the reporting units operate within.  \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the discount rate, including testing the underlying  source information and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, and developing a range of independent  estimates and comparing those to the discount rate selected by management. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the market multiples by evaluating the selected  comparable publicly traded companies and the adjustments made for differences in growth prospects and risk  pro\ufb01les between the reporting units and the comparable publicly traded companies.  We tested the underlying  source information and mathematical accuracy of the calculations. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the fair value of the reporting units based upon  reconciling the fair values of the reporting units to the market capitalization of the Company.", "We have served as the Company's auditor since 1966.", "The difference between the opening and closing balances of the Company's contract assets primarily results from  the timing difference between the Company's performance and when the customer is billed.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August 31, 2021.  The maximum availability under the AR Securitization Facility is  $175,000.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings of our customers, customer concentration  levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may  not be able to fully access the $175,000 of funding available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR  Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the  amount of the Service Center Based Distribution reportable segment\u2019s U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.   The Company uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt,  effectively reducing borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR and  fees on the AR Securitization Facility are 0.90% per year.  The interest rate on the AR Securitization Facility as of  June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019 was 1.07% and 3.33%, respectively.", "As of June 30, 2020, the Company had accumulated undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of  approximately $114,070.  The vast majority of such earnings have previously been subjected to the one-time  transition tax or the Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (\"GILTI\") inclusion implemented by the Act.  Therefore, any  additional taxes due with respect to such earnings or the excess of the amount for \ufb01nancial reporting over the tax  basis of our foreign investments would generally be limited to foreign withholding and state income taxes.  In  addition, we expect foreign tax credits would be available to either offset or partially reduce the tax cost in the event  of a distribution.  We intend, however, to inde\ufb01nitely reinvest these earnings and expect future U.S. cash generation  to be suf\ufb01cient to meet future U.S. cash needs.", "We have evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to June 30, 2020 through the date the \ufb01nancial  statements were issued.", "CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING", "Applied has a code of ethics, named the Code of Business Ethics, that applies to our employees, including our  principal executive of\ufb01cer, principal \ufb01nancial of\ufb01cer, and principal accounting of\ufb01cer.  The Code of Business Ethics is  posted via hyperlink at the investor relations area of our www.applied.com website.  In addition, amendments to  and waivers from the Code of Business Ethics will be disclosed promptly at the same location.", "Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this  report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.", "Cumulative total return assumes reinvestment of dividends.", "Fiscal 2020 had its share of challenges, but it also brought opportunities.", "On behalf of all of  us at Applied, we wish you all the best during this time.", "Our internet address is www.applied.com.  The following documents are available free of charge via hyperlink from  the investor relations area of our website: \u2022  Applied's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and  amendments to those reports, together with Section 16 insider bene\ufb01cial stock ownership reports - these  documents are posted as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically \ufb01led with, or furnished to,  the Securities and Exchange Commission \u2022  Applied's Code of Business Ethics \u2022  Applied's Board of Directors Governance Principles and Practices \u2022  Applied's Director Independence Standards \u2022  Charters for the Audit, Corporate Governance, and Executive Organization & Compensation Committees of  Applied's Board of Directors", "The information available via hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K.", "We require substantial working capital related to accounts receivable and inventories.  Signi\ufb01cant amounts of  inventory are carried to meet customers' delivery requirements.  We generally require payments for sales on account  within 30 days.  Returns are not considered to have a material effect on our working capital requirements.  We  believe these practices are generally consistent among companies in our industry.", "NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES   At June 30, 2020, we had approximately 6,200 employees.", "If we do not implement these initiatives effectively, or if for other reasons they are  unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected.", "For example, key suppliers could change the  following: the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing brands; the  geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations; supplier purchasing incentive or other support  programs; product purchase or stocking expectations; or the extent to which the suppliers seek to serve end users  directly.", "The purchasing incentives we earn from product suppliers can be impacted if we reduce our purchases in  response to declining customer demand.  Certain product suppliers have historically offered to their distributors,  including us, incentives for purchasing their products.  In addition to market or customer account-speci\ufb01c incentives,  certain suppliers pay incentives to the distributor for attaining speci\ufb01c purchase volumes during a program period.  In  some cases, to earn incentives, we must achieve year-over-year growth in purchases with the supplier.  When  demand for our products declines, we may be less inclined to add inventory to take advantage of certain incentive  programs, thereby potentially adversely impacting our pro\ufb01tability.", "In addition, a portion of our own distribution costs is  composed of fuel for our sales and delivery vehicles, freight, and utility expenses for our facilities.  Our ability to pass  along increases in our product and distribution costs in a timely manner to our customers depends on execution,  market conditions, and contractual limitations.  Failing to pass along price increases timely in an in\ufb02ationary  environment, or not maintaining sales volume while increasing prices, could signi\ufb01cantly reduce our pro\ufb01tability.", "proprietary or con\ufb01dential information, or the breach of customer, supplier, or employee information.  A security  incident involving our systems, or even an inadvertent failure to comply with data privacy and security laws and  regulations, could negatively impact our sales, damage our reputation, and cause us to incur unanticipated legal  liability, remediation costs, and other losses and expenses.", "Further, even if we successfully integrate the acquisitions with our operations, we may not be able to realize cost  savings, sales, pro\ufb01t levels, or other bene\ufb01ts that we anticipate from these acquisitions, either as to amount or in the  time frame we expect.  Our ability to realize anticipated bene\ufb01ts may be affected by a number of factors, including  the following: our ability to achieve planned operating results, to reduce duplicative expenses and inventory  effectively, and to consolidate facilities; economic and market factors; the incurrence of signi\ufb01cant integration costs  or charges in order to achieve those bene\ufb01ts; our ability to retain key product supplier authorizations, customer  relationships, and employees; our ability to address competitive, distribution, and regulatory challenges arising from  entering into new markets (geographic, product, service, end-industry, or otherwise), especially those in which we  may have limited or no direct experience; and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired  company.  In addition, acquisitions could place signi\ufb01cant demand on administrative, operational, and \ufb01nancial  resources.", "Goodwill, long-lived, and other intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become  impaired.  We review goodwill, long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identi\ufb01able  amortizing intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the", "Our ability to maintain effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting may be insuf\ufb01cient to allow us to  accurately report our \ufb01nancial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our \ufb01nancial statements to  become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  We require  effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our  \ufb01nancial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.  Internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting may not prevent or detect  misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or  overriding of controls, or fraud.  Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance  with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of \ufb01nancial statements.  If we cannot provide reasonable  assurance with respect to our \ufb01nancial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our \ufb01nancial statements could be  materially misstated, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.", "If we are not able to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting, including any failure to  implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience dif\ufb01culties in their implementation, our business,  \ufb01nancial condition and operating results could be harmed.  Any material weakness could affect investor con\ufb01dence  in the accuracy and completeness of our \ufb01nancial statements.  As a result, our ability to obtain any additional  \ufb01nancing, or additional \ufb01nancing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected.  This, in turn, could  materially and adversely affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, and the market value of our stock and require us to  incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures.  In addition, perceptions of the  Company among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts, and others could also be adversely  affected.", "We cannot assure that any material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and  maintain adequate internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting.  In addition, although we have been successful  historically in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to  prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair presentation of our \ufb01nancial statements included in our periodic  reports \ufb01led with the SEC.", "carrying amounts are not recoverable.  Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include  signi\ufb01cant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, signi\ufb01cant  underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset  before the end of its estimated useful life.  In 2020, we recorded a $131.0 million non-cash impairment charge for  goodwill associated with the FCX business.", "As of June 30, 2020, we had $540.6 million of goodwill and $343.2 million of other intangible assets, net.  We  assess all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment on a reporting unit basis.  The techniques used in our  qualitative assessment and goodwill impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that are  subject to change.  Although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and re\ufb02ect market  conditions forecasted at the assessment date, any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market  conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods.", "Tight credit markets could impact our ability to obtain \ufb01nancing on reasonable terms or increase the cost  of future \ufb01nancing.  Although the credit market turmoil of a decade ago did not have a signi\ufb01cant adverse impact  on our liquidity or borrowing costs, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt  increased.  If credit market volatility were to return, obtaining additional or replacement \ufb01nancing could be more  dif\ufb01cult and the cost of issuing new debt or replacing a credit facility could be higher than under our current  facilities.  Tight credit conditions could limit our ability to \ufb01nance acquisitions on terms acceptable to us.", "We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method by which LIBOR is  determined.  As of June 30, 2020, we had approximately $764.3 million of aggregate consolidated indebtedness  that was indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate (\u201cLIBOR\u201d).  In addition, as of June 30, 2020, approximately  $431.0 million of this variable rate debt was converted to a \ufb01xed rate through an interest rate swap.  The swap  agreement was entered into in January 2019 and is indexed to LIBOR.  Central banks around the world, including  the Federal Reserve, have commissioned working groups of market participants and of\ufb01cial sector representatives  with the goal of \ufb01nding suitable replacements for LIBOR based on observable market transactions.  It is expected that  a transition away from the widespread use of LIBOR to alternative rates will occur over the course of the next few  years.  The U.K.", "We are subject to litigation and regulatory risk due to the nature of our business, which may have a  material adverse effect on our business.  From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal  proceedings that arise from our business.  These may, for example, relate to product liability claims, commercial  disputes, personal injuries, or employment-related matters.  In addition, we could face claims over other matters,  such as claims arising from our status as a public company or government contractor, our engagement in  international trade, or otherwise relating to our compliance with a wide array of laws and regulations to which we  are subject.  Our contracts with federal, state, and local governments subject us to various laws and regulations  governing these contracts, increased costs of compliance, and the potential for government audits.  The defense and  ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings or inquiries may result in higher operating expenses, the  inability to participate in existing or future government contacts, or other adverse consequences, which could have a  material adverse effect on our business, \ufb01nancial condition, or results of operations.", "There is no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends on our common stock.  The timing, declaration,  amount, and payment of dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors and  depend on many factors, including our \ufb01nancial condition and results of operations, as well as applicable law and  business considerations that our Board of Directors considers relevant.  There can be no assurance that we will  continue to pay a quarterly dividend.", "Additionally, if we cannot generate suf\ufb01cient cash \ufb02ow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then  our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the Board of Directors, will be impaired and we may be required to  attempt to restructure or re\ufb01nance our debt, raise additional capital, or take other actions such as selling assets,  reducing, or delaying capital expenditures, or reducing our dividend.  There can be no assurance, however, that any  such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our  other credit and contractual arrangements.", "Our foreign operations' results are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable  exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated \ufb01nancial statements.  Fluctuations in currency exchange rates affect  our operating results and \ufb01nancial position, as well as the comparability of results between \ufb01nancial periods.", "Our business is subject to risks, some for which we maintain third-party insurance and some for which we  self-insure.  We may incur losses and be subject to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect  on our \ufb01nancial condition, results of operations, or cash \ufb02ows.  We maintain insurance policies that provide  limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business.  The policies  are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insured basis.  For  some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks  presented.  Because of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase  substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced  amounts of coverage.  As a result, we may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or procure other desirable  insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.  Even where insurance coverage applies, insurers may contest  their obligations to make payments.  Our \ufb01nancial condition, results of operations, and cash \ufb02ows could be  materially and adversely affected by losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured events, as well as by delays  in the payment of insurance proceeds, or the failure by insurers to make payments.", "\u2022 changes in accounting policies and practices that could impact our \ufb01nancial reporting and increase compliance  costs.", "Applied and/or one of its subsidiaries is a party to pending legal proceedings with respect to product liability,  commercial, personal injury, employment, and other matters.  Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of  these proceedings or the range of reasonably possible loss, we do not expect, based on circumstances currently  known, that the ultimate resolution of any of these proceedings will have, either individually or in the aggregate, a  material adverse effect on Applied's consolidated \ufb01nancial position, results of operations, or cash \ufb02ows.", "Our earnings per share was $0.62 in \ufb01scal 2020 versus $3.68 in \ufb01scal year 2019.", "Our primary source of capital is cash \ufb02ow from operations, supplemented as necessary by bank borrowings or other  sources of debt.  At June 30, 2020 we had total debt obligations outstanding of $935.3 million compared to $959.8  million at June 30, 2019.  Management expects that our existing cash, cash equivalents, funds available under the  revolving credit facility, and cash provided from operations, will be suf\ufb01cient to \ufb01nance normal working capital needs  in each of the countries we operate in, payment of dividends, acquisitions, investments in properties, facilities and  equipment, debt service, and the purchase of additional Company common stock.  Management also believes that  additional long-term debt and line of credit \ufb01nancing could be obtained based on the Company\u2019s credit standing  and \ufb01nancial strength.", "The increase in dividends over the year is the result of regular increases in our dividend payout rates.  We paid  dividends of $1.26 and $1.22 per share in \ufb01scal 2020 and 2019, respectively.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August 31, 2021.  The maximum availability under the AR Securitization Facility is $175.0  million.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings of our customers, customer concentration levels  or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be  able to fully access the $175.0 million of funding available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization  Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the  Service Center Based Distribution reportable segment\u2019s U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The Company  uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively reducing  borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR and fees on the AR  Securitization Facility are 0.90% per year.  The interest rate on the AR Securitization Facility as of June 30, 2020 and  June 30, 2019 was 1.07% and 3.33%, respectively.", "The Company did not repurchase shares in \ufb01scal 2020.  In \ufb01scal 2019 and 2018, we repurchased 192,082 and  393,300 shares of the Company\u2019s common stock, respectively, at an average price per share of $58.10,and $57.92,  respectively.", "We expect capital expenditures for \ufb01scal 2021 to be in the $15.0 million to $20.0 million range, primarily consisting  of capital associated with additional information technology equipment and infrastructure investments.  Depreciation  for \ufb01scal 2021 is expected to be in the range of $22.5 million to $23.5 million.", "The Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company\u2019s stock.  These purchases may    be made in open market and negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending upon market conditions.     At June 30, 2020, we had authorization to purchase an additional 864,618 shares.", "Approximately 4.6% of our accounts receivable balances are more than 90 days past due at June 30, 2020  compared to 3.0% at June 30, 2019.  On an overall basis, our provision for losses from uncollected receivables  represents 0.43% of our sales in the year ended June 30, 2020, compared to 0.12% of sales for the year ended  June 30, 2019.  This increase primarily relates to provisions recorded in the current year for customer credit  deterioration and bankruptcies primarily in the U.S. and Mexican operations of the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.  Historically, this percentage is around 0.10% to 0.15%.  Management believes the overall receivables  aging and provision for losses on uncollected receivables are at reasonable levels.", "Purchase orders for inventory and other goods and services are not included in our estimates as we are unable to  aggregate the amount of such purchase orders that represent enforceable and legally binding agreements specifying  all signi\ufb01cant terms.  The previous table includes the gross liability for unrecognized income tax bene\ufb01ts including  interest and penalties in the \u201cOther\u201d column as the Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate regarding the  timing of cash settlements, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.", "Inventories are valued at the average cost method, using the last-in, \ufb01rst-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories, and  the average cost method for foreign inventories.  We adopted the link chain dollar value LIFO method for accounting  for U.S. inventories in \ufb01scal 1974.  Approximately 17.3% of our domestic inventory dollars relate to LIFO layers  added in the 1970s.  The excess of average cost over LIFO cost is $155.5 million as re\ufb02ected in our consolidated  balance sheet at June 30, 2020.  The Company maintains \ufb01ve LIFO pools based on the following product groupings:  bearings, power transmission products, rubber products, \ufb02uid power products and other products.", "We evaluate the collectibility of trade accounts receivable based on a combination of factors.  Initially, we estimate  an allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net sales based on historical bad debt experience.  This initial  estimate is adjusted based on recent trends of certain customers and industries estimated to be a greater credit risk,  trends within the entire customer pool and changes in the overall aging of accounts receivable.  While we have a  large customer base that is geographically dispersed, a general economic downturn in any of the industry segments  in which we operate could result in higher than expected defaults, and therefore, the need to revise estimates for  bad debts.  Accounts are written off against the allowance when it becomes evident that collection will not occur.", "As of June 30, 2020 and 2019, our allowance for doubtful accounts was 2.9% and 1.9% of gross receivables,  respectively.  Our provision for losses on accounts receivable was $14.1 million, $4.1 million and $2.8 million in \ufb01scal  2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.", "We evaluate goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually as of January 1, and whenever an event  occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting  unit is less than its carrying amount.  Events or circumstances that may result in an impairment review include  changes in macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall \ufb01nancial  performance, other relevant entity-speci\ufb01c events, speci\ufb01c events affecting the reporting unit or sustained decrease  in share price.  Each year, the Company may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is  more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.  If impairment is indicated in  the qualitative assessment, or, if management elects to initially perform a quantitative assessment of goodwill, the  impairment test uses a one-step approach.  The fair value of a reporting unit is compared with its carrying amount,  including goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit  is not impaired.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge would be  recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, not to exceed the  total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.  Goodwill on our consolidated \ufb01nancial statements relates to both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and  the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Company has eight reporting units for which an annual goodwill  impairment assessment was performed as of January 1, 2020.  The Company concluded that seven of the reporting  units\u2019 fair value exceeded their carrying amounts by at least 10% as of January 1, 2020.   Speci\ufb01cally, the Canada  reporting unit's fair value exceeded its carrying value by 12%, and the Mexico reporting unit's fair value exceeded its  carrying value by 14%.  The Canada and Mexico reporting units have goodwill balances of $27.2 million and $5.2  million, respectively, as of June 30, 2020.  The carrying value of the \ufb01nal reporting unit, which is comprised of the  FCX operations, exceeded the fair value, resulting in goodwill impairment of $131.0 million.  The non-cash  impairment charge was the result of the overall decline in the industrial economy, speci\ufb01cally slower demand in  FCX's end markets.  This led to reduced spending by customers and reduced revenue expectations.  As of June 30,  2020, the Company's goodwill balance was $540.6 million, of which $309.0 million relates to the FCX reporting  unit.  If the Company does not achieve forecasted sales growth and margin improvements goodwill could be further  impaired.", "We discuss certain of these matters and other risk factors more fully throughout our Form 10-K, as well as  other of our \ufb01lings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.", "Our market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as changes in interest rates.   We occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall \ufb01nancial risk management policy, but do not use  derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.", "Because we operate throughout North America, Australia and New Zealand and approximately 13.1% of our \ufb01scal  year 2020 net sales were generated outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates can impact our  \ufb01nancial position, results of operations and competitive position.  The \ufb01nancial statements of foreign subsidiaries are  translated into their U.S. dollar equivalents at end-of-period exchange rates for assets and liabilities, while income  and expenses are translated at average monthly exchange rates.  Translation gains and losses are components of  other comprehensive loss as reported in the statements of consolidated comprehensive income.  Transaction gains  and losses arising from \ufb02uctuations in currency exchange rates on transactions denominated in currencies other than  the functional currency are recognized in the statements of consolidated income as a component of other income,  net.  Applied does not currently hedge the net investments in our foreign operations.", "During the course of the \ufb01scal year, the Canadian, Mexican, Australian and New Zealand currency exchange rates  decreased in relation to the U.S. dollar by 4.0%, 17.1%, 1.8% and 4.0%, respectively.  In the twelve months ended  June 30, 2020, we experienced net foreign currency translation losses totaling $18.5 million, which were included in  other comprehensive loss.  We utilize a sensitivity analysis to measure the potential impact on earnings based on a  hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency rates.  Excluding the non-cash goodwill impairment charge recorded in  \ufb01scal 2020, a 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies that affect the Company from the  levels experienced during the year ended June 30, 2020 would have resulted in a $1.3 million decrease in net  income for the year ended June 30, 2020.  Excluding the non-cash goodwill impairment charge recorded in \ufb01scal  2020, a 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies that affect the Company from the levels  experienced during the year ended June 30, 2020 would have resulted in a $1.3 million increase in net income for  the year ended June 30, 2020.", "Our primary exposure to interest rate risk results from our outstanding debt obligations with variable interest rates.   The levels of fees and interest charged on our various debt facilities are based upon leverage levels and market  interest rates.", "Our variable interest rate debt facilities outstanding include our \ufb01ve-year credit facility, which provides for a revolving  credit facility with a capacity of up to $250.0 million in borrowings with no balance outstanding at June 30, 2020, a  $780.0 million term loan, of which $589.3 million was outstanding at June 30, 2020, and a $175.0 million trade  receivable securitization facility, all of which was outstanding at June 30, 2020.  In January 2019, the Company  entered into an interest rate swap on $463.0 million of the Company\u2019s U.S. dollar-denominated unsecured variable  rate debt.  The notional amount of the interest rate swap was $431.0 million as of June 30, 2020.  The interest rate  swap effectively converts a portion of the \ufb02oating rate interest payment into a \ufb01xed rate interest payment.  The  Company designated the interest rate swap as a pay-\ufb01xed, receive-\ufb02oating interest rate swap instrument and is  accounting for this derivative as a cash \ufb02ow hedge.  Fixed interest rate debt facilities include $170.0 million  outstanding under our unsecured shelf facility agreement, as well as $1.0 million of assumed debt from the purchase  of our headquarters facility.  We had total average variable interest rate bank borrowings of $782.0 million during  \ufb01scal 2020.  The impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the interest rates on our average variable interest rate  bank borrowings (not considering the impact of our interest rate swap) would have resulted in a $7.8 million  increase in interest expense.  Due to the interest rate swap, the impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the  variable interest rate would have reduced net cash interest paid by $4.3 million.  Changes in market interest rates  would also impact interest rates on these facilities.", "For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the \u201cLiquidity and Capital Resources\u201d section of  \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\u201d in Item 7 and notes 6 and  7 to the consolidated \ufb01nancial statements in Item 8.  That information is also incorporated here by reference.  In  addition, see Item 1A, \u201cRisk Factors,\u201d for additional risk factors relating to our business.", "These \ufb01nancial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an  opinion on the Company's \ufb01nancial statements based on our audits.  We are a public accounting \ufb01rm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.", "We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the \ufb01nancial statements are free of material  misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.  Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material  misstatement of the \ufb01nancial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to  those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in  the \ufb01nancial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and signi\ufb01cant estimates  made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the \ufb01nancial statements.  We believe that our  audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the \ufb01nancial  statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to  accounts or disclosures that are material to the \ufb01nancial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging,  subjective, or complex judgments.  The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on  the \ufb01nancial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing  a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.", "Our audit procedures related to the forecasts of future revenues and EBITDA (\u201cforecasts\u201d), and the selection of the  discount rate and selection of multiples applied to management\u2019s forecasted revenues and EBITDA estimates (\u201cmarket  multiples\u201d) for the FCX and Canada reporting units included the following, among others: \u2022 We tested the effectiveness of controls over management\u2019s goodwill impairment evaluation, such as controls  related to management\u2019s forecasts and the selection of the discount rate and market multiples used. \u2022 We evaluated management\u2019s ability to accurately forecast by comparing actual results to management\u2019s  historical forecasts. \u2022 We evaluated the reasonableness of management\u2019s forecasts by comparing the forecasts to (1) historical  results, (2) internal communications to management and the Board of Directors, and (3) forecasted information  included in industry reports for the various industries the reporting units operate within.  \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the discount rate, including testing the underlying  source information and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, and developing a range of independent  estimates and comparing those to the discount rate selected by management. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the market multiples by evaluating the selected  comparable publicly traded companies and the adjustments made for differences in growth prospects and risk  pro\ufb01les between the reporting units and the comparable publicly traded companies.  We tested the underlying  source information and mathematical accuracy of the calculations. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the fair value of the reporting units based upon  reconciling the fair values of the reporting units to the market capitalization of the Company.", "We have served as the Company's auditor since 1966.", "The difference between the opening and closing balances of the Company's contract assets primarily results from  the timing difference between the Company's performance and when the customer is billed.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August 31, 2021.  The maximum availability under the AR Securitization Facility is  $175,000.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings of our customers, customer concentration  levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may  not be able to fully access the $175,000 of funding available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR  Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the  amount of the Service Center Based Distribution reportable segment\u2019s U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.   The Company uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt,  effectively reducing borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR and  fees on the AR Securitization Facility are 0.90% per year.  The interest rate on the AR Securitization Facility as of  June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019 was 1.07% and 3.33%, respectively.", "As of June 30, 2020, the Company had accumulated undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of  approximately $114,070.  The vast majority of such earnings have previously been subjected to the one-time  transition tax or the Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (\"GILTI\") inclusion implemented by the Act.  Therefore, any  additional taxes due with respect to such earnings or the excess of the amount for \ufb01nancial reporting over the tax  basis of our foreign investments would generally be limited to foreign withholding and state income taxes.  In  addition, we expect foreign tax credits would be available to either offset or partially reduce the tax cost in the event  of a distribution.  We intend, however, to inde\ufb01nitely reinvest these earnings and expect future U.S. cash generation  to be suf\ufb01cient to meet future U.S. cash needs.", "We have evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to June 30, 2020 through the date the \ufb01nancial  statements were issued.", "CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING", "Applied has a code of ethics, named the Code of Business Ethics, that applies to our employees, including our  principal executive of\ufb01cer, principal \ufb01nancial of\ufb01cer, and principal accounting of\ufb01cer.  The Code of Business Ethics is  posted via hyperlink at the investor relations area of our www.applied.com website.  In addition, amendments to  and waivers from the Code of Business Ethics will be disclosed promptly at the same location.", "Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this  report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.", "Cumulative total return assumes reinvestment of dividends.", "Fiscal 2020 had its share of challenges, but it also brought opportunities.", "On behalf of all of  us at Applied, we wish you all the best during this time.", "Our internet address is www.applied.com.  The following documents are available free of charge via hyperlink from  the investor relations area of our website: \u2022  Applied's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and  amendments to those reports, together with Section 16 insider bene\ufb01cial stock ownership reports - these  documents are posted as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically \ufb01led with, or furnished to,  the Securities and Exchange Commission \u2022  Applied's Code of Business Ethics \u2022  Applied's Board of Directors Governance Principles and Practices \u2022  Applied's Director Independence Standards \u2022  Charters for the Audit, Corporate Governance, and Executive Organization & Compensation Committees of  Applied's Board of Directors", "The information available via hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K.", "We require substantial working capital related to accounts receivable and inventories.  Signi\ufb01cant amounts of  inventory are carried to meet customers' delivery requirements.  We generally require payments for sales on account  within 30 days.  Returns are not considered to have a material effect on our working capital requirements.  We  believe these practices are generally consistent among companies in our industry.", "NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES   At June 30, 2020, we had approximately 6,200 employees.", "If we do not implement these initiatives effectively, or if for other reasons they are  unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected.", "For example, key suppliers could change the  following: the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing brands; the  geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations; supplier purchasing incentive or other support  programs; product purchase or stocking expectations; or the extent to which the suppliers seek to serve end users  directly.", "The purchasing incentives we earn from product suppliers can be impacted if we reduce our purchases in  response to declining customer demand.  Certain product suppliers have historically offered to their distributors,  including us, incentives for purchasing their products.  In addition to market or customer account-speci\ufb01c incentives,  certain suppliers pay incentives to the distributor for attaining speci\ufb01c purchase volumes during a program period.  In  some cases, to earn incentives, we must achieve year-over-year growth in purchases with the supplier.  When  demand for our products declines, we may be less inclined to add inventory to take advantage of certain incentive  programs, thereby potentially adversely impacting our pro\ufb01tability.", "In addition, a portion of our own distribution costs is  composed of fuel for our sales and delivery vehicles, freight, and utility expenses for our facilities.  Our ability to pass  along increases in our product and distribution costs in a timely manner to our customers depends on execution,  market conditions, and contractual limitations.  Failing to pass along price increases timely in an in\ufb02ationary  environment, or not maintaining sales volume while increasing prices, could signi\ufb01cantly reduce our pro\ufb01tability.", "proprietary or con\ufb01dential information, or the breach of customer, supplier, or employee information.  A security  incident involving our systems, or even an inadvertent failure to comply with data privacy and security laws and  regulations, could negatively impact our sales, damage our reputation, and cause us to incur unanticipated legal  liability, remediation costs, and other losses and expenses.", "Further, even if we successfully integrate the acquisitions with our operations, we may not be able to realize cost  savings, sales, pro\ufb01t levels, or other bene\ufb01ts that we anticipate from these acquisitions, either as to amount or in the  time frame we expect.  Our ability to realize anticipated bene\ufb01ts may be affected by a number of factors, including  the following: our ability to achieve planned operating results, to reduce duplicative expenses and inventory  effectively, and to consolidate facilities; economic and market factors; the incurrence of signi\ufb01cant integration costs  or charges in order to achieve those bene\ufb01ts; our ability to retain key product supplier authorizations, customer  relationships, and employees; our ability to address competitive, distribution, and regulatory challenges arising from  entering into new markets (geographic, product, service, end-industry, or otherwise), especially those in which we  may have limited or no direct experience; and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired  company.  In addition, acquisitions could place signi\ufb01cant demand on administrative, operational, and \ufb01nancial  resources.", "Goodwill, long-lived, and other intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become  impaired.  We review goodwill, long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identi\ufb01able  amortizing intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the", "Our ability to maintain effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting may be insuf\ufb01cient to allow us to  accurately report our \ufb01nancial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our \ufb01nancial statements to  become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  We require  effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our  \ufb01nancial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.  Internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting may not prevent or detect  misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or  overriding of controls, or fraud.  Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance  with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of \ufb01nancial statements.  If we cannot provide reasonable  assurance with respect to our \ufb01nancial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our \ufb01nancial statements could be  materially misstated, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.", "If we are not able to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting, including any failure to  implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience dif\ufb01culties in their implementation, our business,  \ufb01nancial condition and operating results could be harmed.  Any material weakness could affect investor con\ufb01dence  in the accuracy and completeness of our \ufb01nancial statements.  As a result, our ability to obtain any additional  \ufb01nancing, or additional \ufb01nancing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected.  This, in turn, could  materially and adversely affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, and the market value of our stock and require us to  incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures.  In addition, perceptions of the  Company among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts, and others could also be adversely  affected.", "We cannot assure that any material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and  maintain adequate internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting.  In addition, although we have been successful  historically in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to  prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair presentation of our \ufb01nancial statements included in our periodic  reports \ufb01led with the SEC.", "carrying amounts are not recoverable.  Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include  signi\ufb01cant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, signi\ufb01cant  underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset  before the end of its estimated useful life.  In 2020, we recorded a $131.0 million non-cash impairment charge for  goodwill associated with the FCX business.", "As of June 30, 2020, we had $540.6 million of goodwill and $343.2 million of other intangible assets, net.  We  assess all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment on a reporting unit basis.  The techniques used in our  qualitative assessment and goodwill impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that are  subject to change.  Although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and re\ufb02ect market  conditions forecasted at the assessment date, any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market  conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods.", "Tight credit markets could impact our ability to obtain \ufb01nancing on reasonable terms or increase the cost  of future \ufb01nancing.  Although the credit market turmoil of a decade ago did not have a signi\ufb01cant adverse impact  on our liquidity or borrowing costs, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt  increased.  If credit market volatility were to return, obtaining additional or replacement \ufb01nancing could be more  dif\ufb01cult and the cost of issuing new debt or replacing a credit facility could be higher than under our current  facilities.  Tight credit conditions could limit our ability to \ufb01nance acquisitions on terms acceptable to us.", "We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method by which LIBOR is  determined.  As of June 30, 2020, we had approximately $764.3 million of aggregate consolidated indebtedness  that was indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate (\u201cLIBOR\u201d).  In addition, as of June 30, 2020, approximately  $431.0 million of this variable rate debt was converted to a \ufb01xed rate through an interest rate swap.  The swap  agreement was entered into in January 2019 and is indexed to LIBOR.  Central banks around the world, including  the Federal Reserve, have commissioned working groups of market participants and of\ufb01cial sector representatives  with the goal of \ufb01nding suitable replacements for LIBOR based on observable market transactions.  It is expected that  a transition away from the widespread use of LIBOR to alternative rates will occur over the course of the next few  years.  The U.K.", "We are subject to litigation and regulatory risk due to the nature of our business, which may have a  material adverse effect on our business.  From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal  proceedings that arise from our business.  These may, for example, relate to product liability claims, commercial  disputes, personal injuries, or employment-related matters.  In addition, we could face claims over other matters,  such as claims arising from our status as a public company or government contractor, our engagement in  international trade, or otherwise relating to our compliance with a wide array of laws and regulations to which we  are subject.  Our contracts with federal, state, and local governments subject us to various laws and regulations  governing these contracts, increased costs of compliance, and the potential for government audits.  The defense and  ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings or inquiries may result in higher operating expenses, the  inability to participate in existing or future government contacts, or other adverse consequences, which could have a  material adverse effect on our business, \ufb01nancial condition, or results of operations.", "There is no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends on our common stock.  The timing, declaration,  amount, and payment of dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors and  depend on many factors, including our \ufb01nancial condition and results of operations, as well as applicable law and  business considerations that our Board of Directors considers relevant.  There can be no assurance that we will  continue to pay a quarterly dividend.", "Additionally, if we cannot generate suf\ufb01cient cash \ufb02ow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then  our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the Board of Directors, will be impaired and we may be required to  attempt to restructure or re\ufb01nance our debt, raise additional capital, or take other actions such as selling assets,  reducing, or delaying capital expenditures, or reducing our dividend.  There can be no assurance, however, that any  such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our  other credit and contractual arrangements.", "Our foreign operations' results are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable  exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated \ufb01nancial statements.  Fluctuations in currency exchange rates affect  our operating results and \ufb01nancial position, as well as the comparability of results between \ufb01nancial periods.", "Our business is subject to risks, some for which we maintain third-party insurance and some for which we  self-insure.  We may incur losses and be subject to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect  on our \ufb01nancial condition, results of operations, or cash \ufb02ows.  We maintain insurance policies that provide  limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business.  The policies  are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insured basis.  For  some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks  presented.  Because of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase  substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced  amounts of coverage.  As a result, we may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or procure other desirable  insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.  Even where insurance coverage applies, insurers may contest  their obligations to make payments.  Our \ufb01nancial condition, results of operations, and cash \ufb02ows could be  materially and adversely affected by losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured events, as well as by delays  in the payment of insurance proceeds, or the failure by insurers to make payments.", "\u2022 changes in accounting policies and practices that could impact our \ufb01nancial reporting and increase compliance  costs.", "Applied and/or one of its subsidiaries is a party to pending legal proceedings with respect to product liability,  commercial, personal injury, employment, and other matters.  Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of  these proceedings or the range of reasonably possible loss, we do not expect, based on circumstances currently  known, that the ultimate resolution of any of these proceedings will have, either individually or in the aggregate, a  material adverse effect on Applied's consolidated \ufb01nancial position, results of operations, or cash \ufb02ows.", "Our earnings per share was $0.62 in \ufb01scal 2020 versus $3.68 in \ufb01scal year 2019.", "Our primary source of capital is cash \ufb02ow from operations, supplemented as necessary by bank borrowings or other  sources of debt.  At June 30, 2020 we had total debt obligations outstanding of $935.3 million compared to $959.8  million at June 30, 2019.  Management expects that our existing cash, cash equivalents, funds available under the  revolving credit facility, and cash provided from operations, will be suf\ufb01cient to \ufb01nance normal working capital needs  in each of the countries we operate in, payment of dividends, acquisitions, investments in properties, facilities and  equipment, debt service, and the purchase of additional Company common stock.  Management also believes that  additional long-term debt and line of credit \ufb01nancing could be obtained based on the Company\u2019s credit standing  and \ufb01nancial strength.", "The increase in dividends over the year is the result of regular increases in our dividend payout rates.  We paid  dividends of $1.26 and $1.22 per share in \ufb01scal 2020 and 2019, respectively.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August 31, 2021.  The maximum availability under the AR Securitization Facility is $175.0  million.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings of our customers, customer concentration levels  or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be  able to fully access the $175.0 million of funding available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization  Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the  Service Center Based Distribution reportable segment\u2019s U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The Company  uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively reducing  borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR and fees on the AR  Securitization Facility are 0.90% per year.  The interest rate on the AR Securitization Facility as of June 30, 2020 and  June 30, 2019 was 1.07% and 3.33%, respectively.", "The Company did not repurchase shares in \ufb01scal 2020.  In \ufb01scal 2019 and 2018, we repurchased 192,082 and  393,300 shares of the Company\u2019s common stock, respectively, at an average price per share of $58.10,and $57.92,  respectively.", "We expect capital expenditures for \ufb01scal 2021 to be in the $15.0 million to $20.0 million range, primarily consisting  of capital associated with additional information technology equipment and infrastructure investments.  Depreciation  for \ufb01scal 2021 is expected to be in the range of $22.5 million to $23.5 million.", "The Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company\u2019s stock.  These purchases may    be made in open market and negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending upon market conditions.     At June 30, 2020, we had authorization to purchase an additional 864,618 shares.", "Approximately 4.6% of our accounts receivable balances are more than 90 days past due at June 30, 2020  compared to 3.0% at June 30, 2019.  On an overall basis, our provision for losses from uncollected receivables  represents 0.43% of our sales in the year ended June 30, 2020, compared to 0.12% of sales for the year ended  June 30, 2019.  This increase primarily relates to provisions recorded in the current year for customer credit  deterioration and bankruptcies primarily in the U.S. and Mexican operations of the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.  Historically, this percentage is around 0.10% to 0.15%.  Management believes the overall receivables  aging and provision for losses on uncollected receivables are at reasonable levels.", "Purchase orders for inventory and other goods and services are not included in our estimates as we are unable to  aggregate the amount of such purchase orders that represent enforceable and legally binding agreements specifying  all signi\ufb01cant terms.  The previous table includes the gross liability for unrecognized income tax bene\ufb01ts including  interest and penalties in the \u201cOther\u201d column as the Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate regarding the  timing of cash settlements, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.", "Inventories are valued at the average cost method, using the last-in, \ufb01rst-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories, and  the average cost method for foreign inventories.  We adopted the link chain dollar value LIFO method for accounting  for U.S. inventories in \ufb01scal 1974.  Approximately 17.3% of our domestic inventory dollars relate to LIFO layers  added in the 1970s.  The excess of average cost over LIFO cost is $155.5 million as re\ufb02ected in our consolidated  balance sheet at June 30, 2020.  The Company maintains \ufb01ve LIFO pools based on the following product groupings:  bearings, power transmission products, rubber products, \ufb02uid power products and other products.", "We evaluate the collectibility of trade accounts receivable based on a combination of factors.  Initially, we estimate  an allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net sales based on historical bad debt experience.  This initial  estimate is adjusted based on recent trends of certain customers and industries estimated to be a greater credit risk,  trends within the entire customer pool and changes in the overall aging of accounts receivable.  While we have a  large customer base that is geographically dispersed, a general economic downturn in any of the industry segments  in which we operate could result in higher than expected defaults, and therefore, the need to revise estimates for  bad debts.  Accounts are written off against the allowance when it becomes evident that collection will not occur.", "As of June 30, 2020 and 2019, our allowance for doubtful accounts was 2.9% and 1.9% of gross receivables,  respectively.  Our provision for losses on accounts receivable was $14.1 million, $4.1 million and $2.8 million in \ufb01scal  2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.", "We evaluate goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually as of January 1, and whenever an event  occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting  unit is less than its carrying amount.  Events or circumstances that may result in an impairment review include  changes in macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall \ufb01nancial  performance, other relevant entity-speci\ufb01c events, speci\ufb01c events affecting the reporting unit or sustained decrease  in share price.  Each year, the Company may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is  more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.  If impairment is indicated in  the qualitative assessment, or, if management elects to initially perform a quantitative assessment of goodwill, the  impairment test uses a one-step approach.  The fair value of a reporting unit is compared with its carrying amount,  including goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit  is not impaired.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge would be  recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, not to exceed the  total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.  Goodwill on our consolidated \ufb01nancial statements relates to both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and  the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Company has eight reporting units for which an annual goodwill  impairment assessment was performed as of January 1, 2020.  The Company concluded that seven of the reporting  units\u2019 fair value exceeded their carrying amounts by at least 10% as of January 1, 2020.   Speci\ufb01cally, the Canada  reporting unit's fair value exceeded its carrying value by 12%, and the Mexico reporting unit's fair value exceeded its  carrying value by 14%.  The Canada and Mexico reporting units have goodwill balances of $27.2 million and $5.2  million, respectively, as of June 30, 2020.  The carrying value of the \ufb01nal reporting unit, which is comprised of the  FCX operations, exceeded the fair value, resulting in goodwill impairment of $131.0 million.  The non-cash  impairment charge was the result of the overall decline in the industrial economy, speci\ufb01cally slower demand in  FCX's end markets.  This led to reduced spending by customers and reduced revenue expectations.  As of June 30,  2020, the Company's goodwill balance was $540.6 million, of which $309.0 million relates to the FCX reporting  unit.  If the Company does not achieve forecasted sales growth and margin improvements goodwill could be further  impaired.", "We discuss certain of these matters and other risk factors more fully throughout our Form 10-K, as well as  other of our \ufb01lings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.", "Our market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as changes in interest rates.   We occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall \ufb01nancial risk management policy, but do not use  derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.", "Because we operate throughout North America, Australia and New Zealand and approximately 13.1% of our \ufb01scal  year 2020 net sales were generated outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates can impact our  \ufb01nancial position, results of operations and competitive position.  The \ufb01nancial statements of foreign subsidiaries are  translated into their U.S. dollar equivalents at end-of-period exchange rates for assets and liabilities, while income  and expenses are translated at average monthly exchange rates.  Translation gains and losses are components of  other comprehensive loss as reported in the statements of consolidated comprehensive income.  Transaction gains  and losses arising from \ufb02uctuations in currency exchange rates on transactions denominated in currencies other than  the functional currency are recognized in the statements of consolidated income as a component of other income,  net.  Applied does not currently hedge the net investments in our foreign operations.", "During the course of the \ufb01scal year, the Canadian, Mexican, Australian and New Zealand currency exchange rates  decreased in relation to the U.S. dollar by 4.0%, 17.1%, 1.8% and 4.0%, respectively.  In the twelve months ended  June 30, 2020, we experienced net foreign currency translation losses totaling $18.5 million, which were included in  other comprehensive loss.  We utilize a sensitivity analysis to measure the potential impact on earnings based on a  hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency rates.  Excluding the non-cash goodwill impairment charge recorded in  \ufb01scal 2020, a 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies that affect the Company from the  levels experienced during the year ended June 30, 2020 would have resulted in a $1.3 million decrease in net  income for the year ended June 30, 2020.  Excluding the non-cash goodwill impairment charge recorded in \ufb01scal  2020, a 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies that affect the Company from the levels  experienced during the year ended June 30, 2020 would have resulted in a $1.3 million increase in net income for  the year ended June 30, 2020.", "Our primary exposure to interest rate risk results from our outstanding debt obligations with variable interest rates.   The levels of fees and interest charged on our various debt facilities are based upon leverage levels and market  interest rates.", "Our variable interest rate debt facilities outstanding include our \ufb01ve-year credit facility, which provides for a revolving  credit facility with a capacity of up to $250.0 million in borrowings with no balance outstanding at June 30, 2020, a  $780.0 million term loan, of which $589.3 million was outstanding at June 30, 2020, and a $175.0 million trade  receivable securitization facility, all of which was outstanding at June 30, 2020.  In January 2019, the Company  entered into an interest rate swap on $463.0 million of the Company\u2019s U.S. dollar-denominated unsecured variable  rate debt.  The notional amount of the interest rate swap was $431.0 million as of June 30, 2020.  The interest rate  swap effectively converts a portion of the \ufb02oating rate interest payment into a \ufb01xed rate interest payment.  The  Company designated the interest rate swap as a pay-\ufb01xed, receive-\ufb02oating interest rate swap instrument and is  accounting for this derivative as a cash \ufb02ow hedge.  Fixed interest rate debt facilities include $170.0 million  outstanding under our unsecured shelf facility agreement, as well as $1.0 million of assumed debt from the purchase  of our headquarters facility.  We had total average variable interest rate bank borrowings of $782.0 million during  \ufb01scal 2020.  The impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the interest rates on our average variable interest rate  bank borrowings (not considering the impact of our interest rate swap) would have resulted in a $7.8 million  increase in interest expense.  Due to the interest rate swap, the impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the  variable interest rate would have reduced net cash interest paid by $4.3 million.  Changes in market interest rates  would also impact interest rates on these facilities.", "For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the \u201cLiquidity and Capital Resources\u201d section of  \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\u201d in Item 7 and notes 6 and  7 to the consolidated \ufb01nancial statements in Item 8.  That information is also incorporated here by reference.  In  addition, see Item 1A, \u201cRisk Factors,\u201d for additional risk factors relating to our business.", "These \ufb01nancial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an  opinion on the Company's \ufb01nancial statements based on our audits.  We are a public accounting \ufb01rm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.", "We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the \ufb01nancial statements are free of material  misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.  Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material  misstatement of the \ufb01nancial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to  those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in  the \ufb01nancial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and signi\ufb01cant estimates  made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the \ufb01nancial statements.  We believe that our  audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the \ufb01nancial  statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to  accounts or disclosures that are material to the \ufb01nancial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging,  subjective, or complex judgments.  The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on  the \ufb01nancial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing  a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.", "Our audit procedures related to the forecasts of future revenues and EBITDA (\u201cforecasts\u201d), and the selection of the  discount rate and selection of multiples applied to management\u2019s forecasted revenues and EBITDA estimates (\u201cmarket  multiples\u201d) for the FCX and Canada reporting units included the following, among others: \u2022 We tested the effectiveness of controls over management\u2019s goodwill impairment evaluation, such as controls  related to management\u2019s forecasts and the selection of the discount rate and market multiples used. \u2022 We evaluated management\u2019s ability to accurately forecast by comparing actual results to management\u2019s  historical forecasts. \u2022 We evaluated the reasonableness of management\u2019s forecasts by comparing the forecasts to (1) historical  results, (2) internal communications to management and the Board of Directors, and (3) forecasted information  included in industry reports for the various industries the reporting units operate within.  \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the discount rate, including testing the underlying  source information and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, and developing a range of independent  estimates and comparing those to the discount rate selected by management. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the market multiples by evaluating the selected  comparable publicly traded companies and the adjustments made for differences in growth prospects and risk  pro\ufb01les between the reporting units and the comparable publicly traded companies.  We tested the underlying  source information and mathematical accuracy of the calculations. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the fair value of the reporting units based upon  reconciling the fair values of the reporting units to the market capitalization of the Company.", "We have served as the Company's auditor since 1966.", "The difference between the opening and closing balances of the Company's contract assets primarily results from  the timing difference between the Company's performance and when the customer is billed.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August 31, 2021.  The maximum availability under the AR Securitization Facility is  $175,000.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings of our customers, customer concentration  levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may  not be able to fully access the $175,000 of funding available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR  Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the  amount of the Service Center Based Distribution reportable segment\u2019s U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.   The Company uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt,  effectively reducing borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR and  fees on the AR Securitization Facility are 0.90% per year.  The interest rate on the AR Securitization Facility as of  June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019 was 1.07% and 3.33%, respectively.", "As of June 30, 2020, the Company had accumulated undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of  approximately $114,070.  The vast majority of such earnings have previously been subjected to the one-time  transition tax or the Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (\"GILTI\") inclusion implemented by the Act.  Therefore, any  additional taxes due with respect to such earnings or the excess of the amount for \ufb01nancial reporting over the tax  basis of our foreign investments would generally be limited to foreign withholding and state income taxes.  In  addition, we expect foreign tax credits would be available to either offset or partially reduce the tax cost in the event  of a distribution.  We intend, however, to inde\ufb01nitely reinvest these earnings and expect future U.S. cash generation  to be suf\ufb01cient to meet future U.S. cash needs.", "We have evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to June 30, 2020 through the date the \ufb01nancial  statements were issued.", "CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING", "Applied has a code of ethics, named the Code of Business Ethics, that applies to our employees, including our  principal executive of\ufb01cer, principal \ufb01nancial of\ufb01cer, and principal accounting of\ufb01cer.  The Code of Business Ethics is  posted via hyperlink at the investor relations area of our www.applied.com website.  In addition, amendments to  and waivers from the Code of Business Ethics will be disclosed promptly at the same location.", "Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this  report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.", "Cumulative total return assumes reinvestment of dividends.", "Fiscal 2020 had its share of challenges, but it also brought opportunities.", "On behalf of all of  us at Applied, we wish you all the best during this time.", "Our internet address is www.applied.com.  The following documents are available free of charge via hyperlink from  the investor relations area of our website: \u2022  Applied's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and  amendments to those reports, together with Section 16 insider bene\ufb01cial stock ownership reports - these  documents are posted as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically \ufb01led with, or furnished to,  the Securities and Exchange Commission \u2022  Applied's Code of Business Ethics \u2022  Applied's Board of Directors Governance Principles and Practices \u2022  Applied's Director Independence Standards \u2022  Charters for the Audit, Corporate Governance, and Executive Organization & Compensation Committees of  Applied's Board of Directors", "The information available via hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K.", "We require substantial working capital related to accounts receivable and inventories.  Signi\ufb01cant amounts of  inventory are carried to meet customers' delivery requirements.  We generally require payments for sales on account  within 30 days.  Returns are not considered to have a material effect on our working capital requirements.  We  believe these practices are generally consistent among companies in our industry.", "NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES   At June 30, 2020, we had approximately 6,200 employees.", "If we do not implement these initiatives effectively, or if for other reasons they are  unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected.", "For example, key suppliers could change the  following: the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing brands; the  geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations; supplier purchasing incentive or other support  programs; product purchase or stocking expectations; or the extent to which the suppliers seek to serve end users  directly.", "The purchasing incentives we earn from product suppliers can be impacted if we reduce our purchases in  response to declining customer demand.  Certain product suppliers have historically offered to their distributors,  including us, incentives for purchasing their products.  In addition to market or customer account-speci\ufb01c incentives,  certain suppliers pay incentives to the distributor for attaining speci\ufb01c purchase volumes during a program period.  In  some cases, to earn incentives, we must achieve year-over-year growth in purchases with the supplier.  When  demand for our products declines, we may be less inclined to add inventory to take advantage of certain incentive  programs, thereby potentially adversely impacting our pro\ufb01tability.", "In addition, a portion of our own distribution costs is  composed of fuel for our sales and delivery vehicles, freight, and utility expenses for our facilities.  Our ability to pass  along increases in our product and distribution costs in a timely manner to our customers depends on execution,  market conditions, and contractual limitations.  Failing to pass along price increases timely in an in\ufb02ationary  environment, or not maintaining sales volume while increasing prices, could signi\ufb01cantly reduce our pro\ufb01tability.", "proprietary or con\ufb01dential information, or the breach of customer, supplier, or employee information.  A security  incident involving our systems, or even an inadvertent failure to comply with data privacy and security laws and  regulations, could negatively impact our sales, damage our reputation, and cause us to incur unanticipated legal  liability, remediation costs, and other losses and expenses.", "Further, even if we successfully integrate the acquisitions with our operations, we may not be able to realize cost  savings, sales, pro\ufb01t levels, or other bene\ufb01ts that we anticipate from these acquisitions, either as to amount or in the  time frame we expect.  Our ability to realize anticipated bene\ufb01ts may be affected by a number of factors, including  the following: our ability to achieve planned operating results, to reduce duplicative expenses and inventory  effectively, and to consolidate facilities; economic and market factors; the incurrence of signi\ufb01cant integration costs  or charges in order to achieve those bene\ufb01ts; our ability to retain key product supplier authorizations, customer  relationships, and employees; our ability to address competitive, distribution, and regulatory challenges arising from  entering into new markets (geographic, product, service, end-industry, or otherwise), especially those in which we  may have limited or no direct experience; and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired  company.  In addition, acquisitions could place signi\ufb01cant demand on administrative, operational, and \ufb01nancial  resources.", "Goodwill, long-lived, and other intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become  impaired.  We review goodwill, long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identi\ufb01able  amortizing intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the", "Our ability to maintain effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting may be insuf\ufb01cient to allow us to  accurately report our \ufb01nancial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our \ufb01nancial statements to  become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  We require  effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our  \ufb01nancial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.  Internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting may not prevent or detect  misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or  overriding of controls, or fraud.  Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance  with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of \ufb01nancial statements.  If we cannot provide reasonable  assurance with respect to our \ufb01nancial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our \ufb01nancial statements could be  materially misstated, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.", "If we are not able to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting, including any failure to  implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience dif\ufb01culties in their implementation, our business,  \ufb01nancial condition and operating results could be harmed.  Any material weakness could affect investor con\ufb01dence  in the accuracy and completeness of our \ufb01nancial statements.  As a result, our ability to obtain any additional  \ufb01nancing, or additional \ufb01nancing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected.  This, in turn, could  materially and adversely affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, and the market value of our stock and require us to  incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures.  In addition, perceptions of the  Company among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts, and others could also be adversely  affected.", "We cannot assure that any material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and  maintain adequate internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting.  In addition, although we have been successful  historically in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to  prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair presentation of our \ufb01nancial statements included in our periodic  reports \ufb01led with the SEC.", "carrying amounts are not recoverable.  Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include  signi\ufb01cant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, signi\ufb01cant  underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset  before the end of its estimated useful life.  In 2020, we recorded a $131.0 million non-cash impairment charge for  goodwill associated with the FCX business.", "As of June 30, 2020, we had $540.6 million of goodwill and $343.2 million of other intangible assets, net.  We  assess all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment on a reporting unit basis.  The techniques used in our  qualitative assessment and goodwill impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that are  subject to change.  Although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and re\ufb02ect market  conditions forecasted at the assessment date, any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market  conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods.", "Tight credit markets could impact our ability to obtain \ufb01nancing on reasonable terms or increase the cost  of future \ufb01nancing.  Although the credit market turmoil of a decade ago did not have a signi\ufb01cant adverse impact  on our liquidity or borrowing costs, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt  increased.  If credit market volatility were to return, obtaining additional or replacement \ufb01nancing could be more  dif\ufb01cult and the cost of issuing new debt or replacing a credit facility could be higher than under our current  facilities.  Tight credit conditions could limit our ability to \ufb01nance acquisitions on terms acceptable to us.", "We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method by which LIBOR is  determined.  As of June 30, 2020, we had approximately $764.3 million of aggregate consolidated indebtedness  that was indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate (\u201cLIBOR\u201d).  In addition, as of June 30, 2020, approximately  $431.0 million of this variable rate debt was converted to a \ufb01xed rate through an interest rate swap.  The swap  agreement was entered into in January 2019 and is indexed to LIBOR.  Central banks around the world, including  the Federal Reserve, have commissioned working groups of market participants and of\ufb01cial sector representatives  with the goal of \ufb01nding suitable replacements for LIBOR based on observable market transactions.  It is expected that  a transition away from the widespread use of LIBOR to alternative rates will occur over the course of the next few  years.  The U.K.", "We are subject to litigation and regulatory risk due to the nature of our business, which may have a  material adverse effect on our business.  From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal  proceedings that arise from our business.  These may, for example, relate to product liability claims, commercial  disputes, personal injuries, or employment-related matters.  In addition, we could face claims over other matters,  such as claims arising from our status as a public company or government contractor, our engagement in  international trade, or otherwise relating to our compliance with a wide array of laws and regulations to which we  are subject.  Our contracts with federal, state, and local governments subject us to various laws and regulations  governing these contracts, increased costs of compliance, and the potential for government audits.  The defense and  ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings or inquiries may result in higher operating expenses, the  inability to participate in existing or future government contacts, or other adverse consequences, which could have a  material adverse effect on our business, \ufb01nancial condition, or results of operations.", "There is no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends on our common stock.  The timing, declaration,  amount, and payment of dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors and  depend on many factors, including our \ufb01nancial condition and results of operations, as well as applicable law and  business considerations that our Board of Directors considers relevant.  There can be no assurance that we will  continue to pay a quarterly dividend.", "Additionally, if we cannot generate suf\ufb01cient cash \ufb02ow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then  our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the Board of Directors, will be impaired and we may be required to  attempt to restructure or re\ufb01nance our debt, raise additional capital, or take other actions such as selling assets,  reducing, or delaying capital expenditures, or reducing our dividend.  There can be no assurance, however, that any  such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our  other credit and contractual arrangements.", "Our foreign operations' results are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable  exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated \ufb01nancial statements.  Fluctuations in currency exchange rates affect  our operating results and \ufb01nancial position, as well as the comparability of results between \ufb01nancial periods.", "Our business is subject to risks, some for which we maintain third-party insurance and some for which we  self-insure.  We may incur losses and be subject to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect  on our \ufb01nancial condition, results of operations, or cash \ufb02ows.  We maintain insurance policies that provide  limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business.  The policies  are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insured basis.  For  some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks  presented.  Because of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase  substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced  amounts of coverage.  As a result, we may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or procure other desirable  insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.  Even where insurance coverage applies, insurers may contest  their obligations to make payments.  Our \ufb01nancial condition, results of operations, and cash \ufb02ows could be  materially and adversely affected by losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured events, as well as by delays  in the payment of insurance proceeds, or the failure by insurers to make payments.", "\u2022 changes in accounting policies and practices that could impact our \ufb01nancial reporting and increase compliance  costs.", "Applied and/or one of its subsidiaries is a party to pending legal proceedings with respect to product liability,  commercial, personal injury, employment, and other matters.  Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of  these proceedings or the range of reasonably possible loss, we do not expect, based on circumstances currently  known, that the ultimate resolution of any of these proceedings will have, either individually or in the aggregate, a  material adverse effect on Applied's consolidated \ufb01nancial position, results of operations, or cash \ufb02ows.", "Our earnings per share was $0.62 in \ufb01scal 2020 versus $3.68 in \ufb01scal year 2019.", "Our primary source of capital is cash \ufb02ow from operations, supplemented as necessary by bank borrowings or other  sources of debt.  At June 30, 2020 we had total debt obligations outstanding of $935.3 million compared to $959.8  million at June 30, 2019.  Management expects that our existing cash, cash equivalents, funds available under the  revolving credit facility, and cash provided from operations, will be suf\ufb01cient to \ufb01nance normal working capital needs  in each of the countries we operate in, payment of dividends, acquisitions, investments in properties, facilities and  equipment, debt service, and the purchase of additional Company common stock.  Management also believes that  additional long-term debt and line of credit \ufb01nancing could be obtained based on the Company\u2019s credit standing  and \ufb01nancial strength.", "The increase in dividends over the year is the result of regular increases in our dividend payout rates.  We paid  dividends of $1.26 and $1.22 per share in \ufb01scal 2020 and 2019, respectively.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August 31, 2021.  The maximum availability under the AR Securitization Facility is $175.0  million.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings of our customers, customer concentration levels  or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be  able to fully access the $175.0 million of funding available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization  Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the  Service Center Based Distribution reportable segment\u2019s U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The Company  uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively reducing  borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR and fees on the AR  Securitization Facility are 0.90% per year.  The interest rate on the AR Securitization Facility as of June 30, 2020 and  June 30, 2019 was 1.07% and 3.33%, respectively.", "The Company did not repurchase shares in \ufb01scal 2020.  In \ufb01scal 2019 and 2018, we repurchased 192,082 and  393,300 shares of the Company\u2019s common stock, respectively, at an average price per share of $58.10,and $57.92,  respectively.", "We expect capital expenditures for \ufb01scal 2021 to be in the $15.0 million to $20.0 million range, primarily consisting  of capital associated with additional information technology equipment and infrastructure investments.  Depreciation  for \ufb01scal 2021 is expected to be in the range of $22.5 million to $23.5 million.", "The Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company\u2019s stock.  These purchases may    be made in open market and negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending upon market conditions.     At June 30, 2020, we had authorization to purchase an additional 864,618 shares.", "Approximately 4.6% of our accounts receivable balances are more than 90 days past due at June 30, 2020  compared to 3.0% at June 30, 2019.  On an overall basis, our provision for losses from uncollected receivables  represents 0.43% of our sales in the year ended June 30, 2020, compared to 0.12% of sales for the year ended  June 30, 2019.  This increase primarily relates to provisions recorded in the current year for customer credit  deterioration and bankruptcies primarily in the U.S. and Mexican operations of the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.  Historically, this percentage is around 0.10% to 0.15%.  Management believes the overall receivables  aging and provision for losses on uncollected receivables are at reasonable levels.", "Purchase orders for inventory and other goods and services are not included in our estimates as we are unable to  aggregate the amount of such purchase orders that represent enforceable and legally binding agreements specifying  all signi\ufb01cant terms.  The previous table includes the gross liability for unrecognized income tax bene\ufb01ts including  interest and penalties in the \u201cOther\u201d column as the Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate regarding the  timing of cash settlements, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.", "Inventories are valued at the average cost method, using the last-in, \ufb01rst-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories, and  the average cost method for foreign inventories.  We adopted the link chain dollar value LIFO method for accounting  for U.S. inventories in \ufb01scal 1974.  Approximately 17.3% of our domestic inventory dollars relate to LIFO layers  added in the 1970s.  The excess of average cost over LIFO cost is $155.5 million as re\ufb02ected in our consolidated  balance sheet at June 30, 2020.  The Company maintains \ufb01ve LIFO pools based on the following product groupings:  bearings, power transmission products, rubber products, \ufb02uid power products and other products.", "We evaluate the collectibility of trade accounts receivable based on a combination of factors.  Initially, we estimate  an allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net sales based on historical bad debt experience.  This initial  estimate is adjusted based on recent trends of certain customers and industries estimated to be a greater credit risk,  trends within the entire customer pool and changes in the overall aging of accounts receivable.  While we have a  large customer base that is geographically dispersed, a general economic downturn in any of the industry segments  in which we operate could result in higher than expected defaults, and therefore, the need to revise estimates for  bad debts.  Accounts are written off against the allowance when it becomes evident that collection will not occur.", "As of June 30, 2020 and 2019, our allowance for doubtful accounts was 2.9% and 1.9% of gross receivables,  respectively.  Our provision for losses on accounts receivable was $14.1 million, $4.1 million and $2.8 million in \ufb01scal  2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.", "We evaluate goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually as of January 1, and whenever an event  occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting  unit is less than its carrying amount.  Events or circumstances that may result in an impairment review include  changes in macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall \ufb01nancial  performance, other relevant entity-speci\ufb01c events, speci\ufb01c events affecting the reporting unit or sustained decrease  in share price.  Each year, the Company may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is  more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.  If impairment is indicated in  the qualitative assessment, or, if management elects to initially perform a quantitative assessment of goodwill, the  impairment test uses a one-step approach.  The fair value of a reporting unit is compared with its carrying amount,  including goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit  is not impaired.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge would be  recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, not to exceed the  total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.  Goodwill on our consolidated \ufb01nancial statements relates to both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and  the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Company has eight reporting units for which an annual goodwill  impairment assessment was performed as of January 1, 2020.  The Company concluded that seven of the reporting  units\u2019 fair value exceeded their carrying amounts by at least 10% as of January 1, 2020.   Speci\ufb01cally, the Canada  reporting unit's fair value exceeded its carrying value by 12%, and the Mexico reporting unit's fair value exceeded its  carrying value by 14%.  The Canada and Mexico reporting units have goodwill balances of $27.2 million and $5.2  million, respectively, as of June 30, 2020.  The carrying value of the \ufb01nal reporting unit, which is comprised of the  FCX operations, exceeded the fair value, resulting in goodwill impairment of $131.0 million.  The non-cash  impairment charge was the result of the overall decline in the industrial economy, speci\ufb01cally slower demand in  FCX's end markets.  This led to reduced spending by customers and reduced revenue expectations.  As of June 30,  2020, the Company's goodwill balance was $540.6 million, of which $309.0 million relates to the FCX reporting  unit.  If the Company does not achieve forecasted sales growth and margin improvements goodwill could be further  impaired.", "We discuss certain of these matters and other risk factors more fully throughout our Form 10-K, as well as  other of our \ufb01lings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.", "Our market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as changes in interest rates.   We occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall \ufb01nancial risk management policy, but do not use  derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.", "Because we operate throughout North America, Australia and New Zealand and approximately 13.1% of our \ufb01scal  year 2020 net sales were generated outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates can impact our  \ufb01nancial position, results of operations and competitive position.  The \ufb01nancial statements of foreign subsidiaries are  translated into their U.S. dollar equivalents at end-of-period exchange rates for assets and liabilities, while income  and expenses are translated at average monthly exchange rates.  Translation gains and losses are components of  other comprehensive loss as reported in the statements of consolidated comprehensive income.  Transaction gains  and losses arising from \ufb02uctuations in currency exchange rates on transactions denominated in currencies other than  the functional currency are recognized in the statements of consolidated income as a component of other income,  net.  Applied does not currently hedge the net investments in our foreign operations.", "During the course of the \ufb01scal year, the Canadian, Mexican, Australian and New Zealand currency exchange rates  decreased in relation to the U.S. dollar by 4.0%, 17.1%, 1.8% and 4.0%, respectively.  In the twelve months ended  June 30, 2020, we experienced net foreign currency translation losses totaling $18.5 million, which were included in  other comprehensive loss.  We utilize a sensitivity analysis to measure the potential impact on earnings based on a  hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency rates.  Excluding the non-cash goodwill impairment charge recorded in  \ufb01scal 2020, a 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies that affect the Company from the  levels experienced during the year ended June 30, 2020 would have resulted in a $1.3 million decrease in net  income for the year ended June 30, 2020.  Excluding the non-cash goodwill impairment charge recorded in \ufb01scal  2020, a 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies that affect the Company from the levels  experienced during the year ended June 30, 2020 would have resulted in a $1.3 million increase in net income for  the year ended June 30, 2020.", "Our primary exposure to interest rate risk results from our outstanding debt obligations with variable interest rates.   The levels of fees and interest charged on our various debt facilities are based upon leverage levels and market  interest rates.", "Our variable interest rate debt facilities outstanding include our \ufb01ve-year credit facility, which provides for a revolving  credit facility with a capacity of up to $250.0 million in borrowings with no balance outstanding at June 30, 2020, a  $780.0 million term loan, of which $589.3 million was outstanding at June 30, 2020, and a $175.0 million trade  receivable securitization facility, all of which was outstanding at June 30, 2020.  In January 2019, the Company  entered into an interest rate swap on $463.0 million of the Company\u2019s U.S. dollar-denominated unsecured variable  rate debt.  The notional amount of the interest rate swap was $431.0 million as of June 30, 2020.  The interest rate  swap effectively converts a portion of the \ufb02oating rate interest payment into a \ufb01xed rate interest payment.  The  Company designated the interest rate swap as a pay-\ufb01xed, receive-\ufb02oating interest rate swap instrument and is  accounting for this derivative as a cash \ufb02ow hedge.  Fixed interest rate debt facilities include $170.0 million  outstanding under our unsecured shelf facility agreement, as well as $1.0 million of assumed debt from the purchase  of our headquarters facility.  We had total average variable interest rate bank borrowings of $782.0 million during  \ufb01scal 2020.  The impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the interest rates on our average variable interest rate  bank borrowings (not considering the impact of our interest rate swap) would have resulted in a $7.8 million  increase in interest expense.  Due to the interest rate swap, the impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the  variable interest rate would have reduced net cash interest paid by $4.3 million.  Changes in market interest rates  would also impact interest rates on these facilities.", "For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the \u201cLiquidity and Capital Resources\u201d section of  \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\u201d in Item 7 and notes 6 and  7 to the consolidated \ufb01nancial statements in Item 8.  That information is also incorporated here by reference.  In  addition, see Item 1A, \u201cRisk Factors,\u201d for additional risk factors relating to our business.", "These \ufb01nancial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an  opinion on the Company's \ufb01nancial statements based on our audits.  We are a public accounting \ufb01rm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.", "We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the \ufb01nancial statements are free of material  misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.  Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material  misstatement of the \ufb01nancial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to  those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in  the \ufb01nancial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and signi\ufb01cant estimates  made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the \ufb01nancial statements.  We believe that our  audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the \ufb01nancial  statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to  accounts or disclosures that are material to the \ufb01nancial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging,  subjective, or complex judgments.  The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on  the \ufb01nancial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing  a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.", "Our audit procedures related to the forecasts of future revenues and EBITDA (\u201cforecasts\u201d), and the selection of the  discount rate and selection of multiples applied to management\u2019s forecasted revenues and EBITDA estimates (\u201cmarket  multiples\u201d) for the FCX and Canada reporting units included the following, among others: \u2022 We tested the effectiveness of controls over management\u2019s goodwill impairment evaluation, such as controls  related to management\u2019s forecasts and the selection of the discount rate and market multiples used. \u2022 We evaluated management\u2019s ability to accurately forecast by comparing actual results to management\u2019s  historical forecasts. \u2022 We evaluated the reasonableness of management\u2019s forecasts by comparing the forecasts to (1) historical  results, (2) internal communications to management and the Board of Directors, and (3) forecasted information  included in industry reports for the various industries the reporting units operate within.  \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the discount rate, including testing the underlying  source information and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, and developing a range of independent  estimates and comparing those to the discount rate selected by management. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the market multiples by evaluating the selected  comparable publicly traded companies and the adjustments made for differences in growth prospects and risk  pro\ufb01les between the reporting units and the comparable publicly traded companies.  We tested the underlying  source information and mathematical accuracy of the calculations. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the fair value of the reporting units based upon  reconciling the fair values of the reporting units to the market capitalization of the Company.", "We have served as the Company's auditor since 1966.", "The difference between the opening and closing balances of the Company's contract assets primarily results from  the timing difference between the Company's performance and when the customer is billed.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August 31, 2021.  The maximum availability under the AR Securitization Facility is  $175,000.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings of our customers, customer concentration  levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may  not be able to fully access the $175,000 of funding available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR  Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the  amount of the Service Center Based Distribution reportable segment\u2019s U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.   The Company uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt,  effectively reducing borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR and  fees on the AR Securitization Facility are 0.90% per year.  The interest rate on the AR Securitization Facility as of  June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019 was 1.07% and 3.33%, respectively.", "As of June 30, 2020, the Company had accumulated undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of  approximately $114,070.  The vast majority of such earnings have previously been subjected to the one-time  transition tax or the Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (\"GILTI\") inclusion implemented by the Act.  Therefore, any  additional taxes due with respect to such earnings or the excess of the amount for \ufb01nancial reporting over the tax  basis of our foreign investments would generally be limited to foreign withholding and state income taxes.  In  addition, we expect foreign tax credits would be available to either offset or partially reduce the tax cost in the event  of a distribution.  We intend, however, to inde\ufb01nitely reinvest these earnings and expect future U.S. cash generation  to be suf\ufb01cient to meet future U.S. cash needs.", "We have evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to June 30, 2020 through the date the \ufb01nancial  statements were issued.", "CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING", "Applied has a code of ethics, named the Code of Business Ethics, that applies to our employees, including our  principal executive of\ufb01cer, principal \ufb01nancial of\ufb01cer, and principal accounting of\ufb01cer.  The Code of Business Ethics is  posted via hyperlink at the investor relations area of our www.applied.com website.  In addition, amendments to  and waivers from the Code of Business Ethics will be disclosed promptly at the same location.", "Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this  report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.", "Cumulative total return assumes reinvestment of dividends."], "Governance": ["convenience, and expertise. in virtually all industrial markets through our  knowledge serve MRO and OEM end users  value-added distributor and technical solutions", "Many have used the word unprecedented to describe  recent events and the subsequent business environment we have experienced.", "Here at Applied\u00ae, the word unwavering stands out,  as it characterizes the dedication of our associates during these challenging times brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic.", "While COVID has reset the stage in many ways, we know how we respond determines our performance\u2026 and success.", "Across our  business, we have implemented operational procedures and followed guidelines from the CDC and other health organizations.", "Through  social distancing, virtual meetings and sales calls, distance learning and more, we have remained productive and have learned many best  practices along the way \u2013 all in an effort to serve our customers and keep industry running.", "I am incredibly proud of our teamwork and innovation which allow us to proactively and effectively respond across many industries  where we play a key role in keeping the industrial infrastructure running productively.", "Our track record of operational discipline  while preserving our capability to serve is once again apparent in this environment.", "This was highlighted in fiscal 2020 as we  controlled costs and margins, generated record cash, and enhanced our balance sheet despite the softer demand environment.", "We understand our requirements and know how to manage through any part of the cycle.", "More than ever before, our comprehensive portfolio of products and services \u2013 combined with our specialized  expertise and know-how \u2013 is bridging today\u2019s challenges with tomorrow\u2019s opportunities.", "From the onset of the pandemic, we were classified as  an essential business supporting the important industrial  infrastructure with critical products and services.", "Our  facilities remained open and operational through the  various shelter-in-place and stay-at-home orders, while  adhering to health and safety protocols.", "With more  than 50% of our service center network demand tied  to break-fix requirements, customers depend on us  for critical parts, services and solutions that sustain  operations and support vital areas of the economy.  For some customers, a slowdown prompts incremental  maintenance on their direct production infrastructure  and systems, and we remain a valued partner in  supporting their engineering and maintenance teams in  addressing related needs.", "Today\u2019s environment  is also prompting us to identify new opportunities  through our specialty flow control capabilities, as  well as complementary consumables and emerging  automation technologies.", "We have proven to be  valuable on multiple fronts.", "Targeted investments in recent years have positioned Applied as the leading distributor of technical solutions  across the industrial supply chain.", "This has differentiated  our value proposition and will continue to be ever  more relevant as the industrial economy starts its next  phase of growth with increasing supply chain and  technical requirements.", "As industrial equipment and  facility infrastructure continues to ramp, it will increase  critical break-fix demand across our network, where  we can respond with local expertise and the most  comprehensive suite of motion control technologies   and services within our industry\u2026 and in our   Company\u2019s history.", "Additionally, behaviors reshaped by the pandemic  will reinforce secular growth opportunities tied  to our technical service and engineered solutions  portfolio, which has become a greater portion of  our business in recent years.", "In particular, we believe  customers will increasingly focus on addressing  skilled labor constraints, plant efficiency, and  regulatory requirements, while considerations", "As a value-added business partner, we continue to  look for new and innovative ways to work with our  customers and suppliers to maximize productivity  and investment returns.", "Emerging technologies have  demonstrated encouraging capabilities in helping  reduce downtime and MRO costs through a network  of sensors, smart devices and machine learning  algorithms.", "This data and digitization movement \u2013  often referred to as the Industrial Internet of Things  (IIoT) \u2013 has been steadily building momentum  throughout the industrial and manufacturing sectors.  Through the Applied IoT ConnectTM Program, we  continue to develop the best ways to leverage these offerings and implement solutions for  connected operations.", "We are also leveraging technology and data internally for continuous improvement and team collaboration  on staying \u201cclose\u201d to our customers and executing  business during these times.", "Our Applied Maintenance  Supplies & SolutionsSM team has introduced virtual  ordering by integrating a video conferencing app  to scan product bins and place orders, providing a  contactless and touchless ordering option.", "Furthermore,  we are strengthening our Applied.com channel and  digital sales capabilities through chat assistance  and engagement initiatives, further enhancing our  customers\u2019 procurement experience and driving new  growth opportunities.", "Across our organization, we have many significant and exciting near-term opportunities to productively and  effectively impact our customers and the important  industrial infrastructure.", "A focus on living the Applied    Core Values is reinforced in this business climate, further  supporting our efforts and helping to generate success  for our customers and Applied.", "These values continue to influence how we engage new  end users, fellow associates, suppliers, communities,  and other important stakeholders.", "We have received  letters from customers across our globally-served  industries acknowledging our support and the value we  provide.", "Additionally, we continue  to have an opportunity \u2013 and collective responsibility \u2013 to  further develop plans, actions and results that promote  fair, honest and ethical practices across our business.  We are proud to note that we have been ranked  among the top 15 of Ohio Fortune 1000 companies  for Diversity in Corporate Governance, according to a  recent report from the National Diversity Council.", "We Are AppliedSM, and we have a strong foundation,  expanding capabilities and outstanding potential as the  leading technical products, services and solutions provider  to industrial markets.", "As we enter fiscal 2021, we see  significant opportunity as we leverage our industry position  to effectively adapt to the evolving industrial landscape, and  invest in new and emerging growth opportunities.", "While we are facing some challenges as the industrial economy transitions from a generational pandemic, we  have a remarkably strong business model that generates  cash and adapts well throughout the cycle, as we have  demonstrated.", "Our strategy is deeply focused on the  opportunities ahead of us and moving the Company  toward its long-term financial goals for significant earnings  growth and value creation in the coming years.", "With our  100-year anniversary approaching, I firmly believe our best  days are ahead!", "We are a leading distributor and solutions provider of industrial motion, power, and control technologies.  Through  our comprehensive network of approximately 6,200 associates and 580 facilities including service center, \ufb02uid  power, \ufb02ow control, and automation operations, as well as repair shops and distribution centers, we offer a selection  of more than 7 million stock keeping units with a focus on industrial bearings, power transmission products, \ufb02uid  power components and systems, specialty \ufb02ow control solutions, and robotics and machinery automation.  We  market our products with a set of service solutions including inventory management, engineering, design, repair, and  systems integration, as well as customized mechanical, fabricated rubber, and shop services.", "Our customers use our  products and services for both MRO (maintenance, repair, and operating) and OEM (original equipment  manufacturing) applications across a variety of end markets primarily in North America, as well as Australia, New  Zealand, and Singapore.  Headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, Applied and its predecessor companies have engaged in  business since 1923.", "VALUE PROPOSITION We serve a segment of the industrial distribution market that requires technical expertise and service given that our  products and solutions are directly tied to industrial companies\u2019 production and ef\ufb01ciency initiatives.  As such, we  believe we are integral to our customers\u2019 supply chains considering the critical nature and direct exposure our  solutions have on our customers\u2019 core production equipment and plant capabilities.  While we compete with other  distributors and service providers offering products and solutions addressing this area of the industrial supply chain,  we believe our industry position and value proposition bene\ufb01ts from relative advantages tied to the following key  attributes:", "We focus on helping customers minimize their production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce  overall procurement and maintenance costs.  A primary focus for our service center network is responding to a  critical \u201cbreak-\ufb01x\u201d situation, which requires knowledge of a customer\u2019s facility, localized inventory, timely delivery  capabilities, service execution, and accountability.  In addition, our \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, and automation  operations design, engineer, and integrate solutions focused on making a customer\u2019s operations and equipment  more productive, cost-ef\ufb01cient, and automated.  We believe our products and solutions are increasingly critical", "within the industrial supply chain given an aging and tighter customer labor force, more sophisticated production  equipment and processes, a greater focus on plant \ufb02oor optimization, and compliance and regulatory requirements.", "INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION We primarily compete within North America which we believe offers signi\ufb01cant growth potential given our industry  position, established distribution and sales network, market fragmentation, and customer technical requirements, as  well as opportunities tied to automation and smart technologies.  Growth within our industry is in\ufb02uenced by  broader industrial production and capacity utilization, as well as in\ufb02ation, labor dynamics, capital spending,  geopolitical events, factory optimization initiatives, changes in industrial equipment technologies, and supply chain  requirements.", "Our principal competitors are specialist and general line distributors of bearings, power transmission products, \ufb02uid  power components and systems, \ufb02ow control solutions, industrial rubber products, and linear motion components,  and to a lesser extent providers of tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These  competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational operations.  We also compete with original  equipment manufacturers and integrators.  The identity and number of our competitors vary throughout the  geographic, industry, and product markets we serve.", "STRATEGIC GROWTH AND OPERATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES \u2022  Capture market share across our core service center network.  Our network of service centers located  close to industrial companies allows us to respond quickly and effectively to critical MRO situations involving  direct production infrastructure and industrial equipment.  We believe more sophisticated industrial production  processes, customer labor constraints, and increased manufacturing activity across North America could drive  greater demand for our products and services.  We continue to deploy initiatives to further enhance our  capabilities across our service center network and gain market share.  These include investments in analytics,  strategic account penetration, sales process optimization, talent development, and digital capabilities, as well as  fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded product and service platform across \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control,  automation, and consumables solutions.", "\u2022  Execute ongoing operational initiatives supporting margin pro\ufb01le.  We have a number of initiatives  focused on driving operational improvements throughout the organization.  Systems investments in recent  years including common ERP platforms are supporting opportunities in leveraging shared services, re\ufb01ning our  sales management process, and standardizing pricing and sourcing functions, while we continue to optimize  our shop and distribution network and analytics.  We also remain focused on achieving margin synergies across  our operations following expansion into \ufb02ow control and automation.  This includes enhanced pricing  functions, leveraging vendor procurement, freight savings, and re\ufb01ned cost management.  Combined with  growth in more pro\ufb01table areas of our business, we see ongoing opportunity to optimize our margin pro\ufb01le  and cash generation in coming years.", "\u2022  Pursue acquisitions to supplement growth and strengthen industry position.  We expect to pursue  additional acquisitions aligned with our growth strategy and long-term \ufb01nancial targets.  We view acquisitions", "\u2022  Leverage technical industry position in developing growth around emerging industrial technologies.   We believe we are positioned to capture emerging opportunities relating to automation and smart technologies  focused on optimizing and connecting customers\u2019 industrial supply chains.  Our position re\ufb02ects our technical  product focus, service capabilities, embedded customer relationships and knowledge across direct production  infrastructure and equipment, and existing supplier relationships.  Following our acquisition of Olympus  Controls in \ufb01scal 2020, we now offer products and solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and  distribution of motion control, machine vision, and robotic technologies.  We expect to continue to expand our  automation footprint and capabilities in coming years, as well as pursue opportunities tied to the Industrial  Internet of Things (IIoT).  We believe this market potential could be meaningful as technology continues to  converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end-markets.", "\u2022  Extend our leading \ufb02uid power and \ufb02ow control position as demand for comprehensive solutions  grows.  We provide innovative \ufb02uid power and \ufb02ow control solutions including systems design and  engineering, electronic control integration, software programing, valve actuation, compliance consulting,  fabrication and assembly, and dedicated service and repair.  Demand for these solutions is increasing across a  variety of industrial, off-highway mobile, technology, and process related applications given a greater focus on  power consumption, plant ef\ufb01ciency and automation, emissions control, remote monitoring, advancements in  machining, regulatory and compliance standards, and data analytics.  We believe our service and engineering  capabilities, shop network, and supplier relationships are key competitive advantages supporting our ability to  capture a greater share of this market growth opportunity in coming years.", "OPERATIONS Our distribution and sales network consists of approximately 460 locations in our Service Center Distribution  segment and 120 locations in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  This includes service centers, distribution  centers, and facilities tied to our \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, and automation operations.  Our service centers resemble  local inventory hubs located in close proximity to our customers and focused primarily on MRO related ful\ufb01llment  and service needs.  Our \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, and automation locations support technical and shop-oriented  services integral to the more specialized and integrated nature of the products and solutions they provide.  Other  operations and channels we market through include inventory management services for indirect consumable supplies  and digital solutions including our Applied.com website, electronic data interchange (EDI) and other electronic  interfaces with customers' technology platforms and plant maintenance systems.", "Our distribution centers provide daily service to our service centers, helping replenish inventories and shipping  products directly to customers where appropriate.  An ef\ufb01cient supply chain and timely delivery of our products is  vital to our value proposition particularly when customers require products for emergency repairs.  We utilize  dedicated third-party transportation providers, our own delivery vehicles, as well as surface and air common carrier  and courier services.  Customers may also pick up items at our service centers.  We maintain product inventory levels  at each service center tailored to the local market.  These inventories consist of standard items as well as other items  speci\ufb01c to local customer demand.", "Our operations are primarily based in the U.S. where 87% of our \ufb01scal 2020 sales were generated.  We also have  international operations, the largest of which is in Canada (8% of \ufb01scal 2020 sales) with the balance (5% of \ufb01scal  2020 sales) in Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.", "SUPPLIERS We are a leading distributor of products including bearings, power transmission products, engineered \ufb02uid power  components and systems, specialty \ufb02ow control solutions, machinery and robotics automation products, industrial  rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.", "These products are generally supplied to us by manufacturers whom we serve as a non-exclusive distributor.  The  suppliers also may provide us product training, as well as sales and marketing support.  Authorizations to represent  particular suppliers and product lines vary by geographic region, particularly for our \ufb02uid power and \ufb02ow control  businesses.  We believe our supplier relationships are generally good, and many have existed for decades.  The  disruption of relationships with certain suppliers, or the disruption of their operations, could adversely affect our  business.", "Our product suppliers typically con\ufb01ne their direct sales activities to large-volume transactions, mainly with large  original equipment manufacturers.  The suppliers generally do not sell maintenance and repair products directly to  the customer, but instead refer the customer to us or another distributor.", "MARKETS  We purchase from thousands of product manufacturers and resell the products to thousands of customers in a wide  variety of industries, including agriculture and food processing, cement, chemicals and petrochemicals, fabricated  metals, forest products, industrial machinery and equipment, mining, oil and gas, primary metals, transportation, and  utilities, as well as to government entities.  Customers range from very large businesses, with which we may have  multiple-location relationships, to very small ones.  We are not signi\ufb01cantly dependent on a single customer or group  of customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole, and no single  customer accounts for more than 3% of our \ufb01scal 2020 sales.", "SERVICES We believe part of our success, differentiation, and competitive advantage is attributable to the comprehensive set of  services and solutions we provide, which we view as critical given the technical nature and application of our core  product offering of motion, power, control, and automation technologies.  The foundation of our service capabilities  lies with our technically oriented associate team, which includes engineers, industry segment specialists, mechanics,  technicians, \ufb02uid power specialists, as well as our systems, shop network, and supplier relationships.  We believe  knowledge and service capabilities relating to our core product offering are increasingly needed across our customer  base given skilled labor constraints within their operations, maintenance requirements, and more sophisticated plant  equipment and processes.  Our services and solutions help customers minimize production downtime, improve", "as an important growth consideration given high fragmentation, greater operational and technical  requirements, and supplier authorizations within the markets we serve.  We believe our sourcing strategy, cash  generation capabilities, and operational discipline are key to our acquisition success.  Over the near to  intermediate-term, our acquisition priorities are focused on continuing to expand our current offerings, while  further enhancing our technical differentiation and value-added service capabilities.", "Fluid Power & Flow Control.  Our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment includes our operations that specialize in  distributing, engineering, designing, integrating, and repairing hydraulic and pneumatic \ufb02uid power technologies,  and engineered \ufb02ow control products and services.  We believe we are the largest distributor and solutions provider  of \ufb02uid power and industrial \ufb02ow control products and solutions in the U.S.  The segment also includes our  operations that focus on robotic and machinery automation solutions following the acquisition of Olympus Controls  in August 2019.", "Our specialty \ufb02ow control operations encompass the operations of our \ufb01scal 2018 acquisition of FCX Performance,  Inc., which provides highly engineered process \ufb02ow control products, solutions, and services.  Products include  pumps, valves, \ufb01ttings, hoses, process instrumentation, actuators, and \ufb01ltration supplies which are used to control  the \ufb02ow of liquids and gases in mission-critical industrial applications.  Our \ufb02ow control products and services are  focused on MRO related applications; OEMs; and engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) \ufb01rms across a  variety of industries including chemicals, steel, power, oil and gas, pulp and paper, pharmaceuticals, food and  beverage, and general industrials.  Similar to our \ufb02uid power operations, our \ufb02ow control offering includes technical  service capabilities such as \ufb02ow control systems integration, repair services, valve actuation, process instrumentation,  pipe and hose fabrication, and compliance consulting.", "machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs.  By providing high levels of service,  product and industry expertise, and technical support, while at the same time offering product breadth and  competitive pricing, we believe we develop stronger, longer-lasting, and more pro\ufb01table customer relationships.  See  the Reportable Segments section below for more detail on the various service solutions we provide to customers.", "REPORTABLE SEGMENTS We report results of operations in two segments: 1) Service Center Based Distribution, and 2) Fluid Power & Flow  Control.  In \ufb01scal 2020, our Service Center Based Distribution segment represented 69% of our total sales, while our  Fluid Power & Flow Control segment represented 31% of our total sales.", "Service Center Based Distribution.  Our Service Center Based Distribution segment includes our legacy MRO  distribution operations across North America, Australia, and New Zealand.  This business operates through local  service centers and distribution centers with a focus on providing products and services addressing the maintenance  and repair of motion control infrastructure and production equipment.  Products primarily include industrial bearings,  motors, belting, drives, couplings, pumps, linear motion products, hydraulic and pneumatic components, \ufb01ltration  supplies, and hoses, as well as other related supplies for general operational needs of customers\u2019 machinery and  equipment.", "WORKING CAPITAL Our working capital position is discussed in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.", "Our robotic and machinery automation operations encompass our \ufb01scal 2020 acquisition of Olympus Controls,  which provides solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and distribution of motion control, machine  vision, and robotic technologies for OEMs, machine builders, integrators, and other industrial and technology end  users.  Products and solutions are marketed across a variety of industries including technology, medical, life sciences,  logistics, and general industrial.  Olympus Controls helps customers develop, produce, and integrate machine  automation solutions using comprehensive technology and industry processes.", "BACKLOG AND SEASONALITY   Backlog orders are not material to our business as a whole, although they are a more important factor for our \ufb02uid  power and \ufb02ow control businesses.  Our business has exhibited minor seasonality.  In particular, sales per day during  the \ufb01rst half of our \ufb01scal year have historically been slightly lower than the second half due, in part, to the impact of  customer plant shutdowns, summer vacations and holidays.", "PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES, AND LICENSES  Customer recognition of our service marks and trade names, including Applied Industrial Technologies\u00ae, Applied\u00ae,  and AIT\u00ae, is an important contributing factor to our sales.  Patents and licenses are not of material importance to  our business.", "RAW MATERIALS AND GENERAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS   Our operations are dependent on general industrial and economic conditions.  We would be adversely affected by  the unavailability of raw materials to our suppliers, prolonged labor disputes experienced by suppliers or customers,  or by events or conditions that have an adverse effect on industrial activity generally in the markets we serve or on  key customer industries.", "In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could  materially affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the only  risks facing the Company.  Certain risks are identi\ufb01ed below in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion  and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.  Additional risks not currently known to us, risks that could apply broadly to issuers, or risks that we currently deem  immaterial, may also impact our business and operations.  Risks can also change over time.", "Our business depends heavily on the operating levels of our customers and the factors that affect them,  including general economic conditions.  The markets for our products and services are subject to conditions or  events that affect demand for goods and materials that our customers produce.  Consequently, demand for our  products and services has been and will continue to be in\ufb02uenced by most of the same factors that affect demand  for and production of customers' goods and materials.", "When customers or prospective customers reduce production levels because of lower demand, increased supply,  higher costs, tight credit conditions, unfavorable currency exchange rates, adverse trade policies, foreign  competition, other competitive disadvantage, offshoring of production, or other reasons, their need for our products  and services diminishes.  Selling prices and terms of sale come under pressure, adversely affecting the pro\ufb01tability  and the durability of customer relationships, and credit losses may increase.  Inventory management becomes more  dif\ufb01cult in times of economic uncertainty.  Volatile economic and credit conditions also make it more dif\ufb01cult for us,  as well as our customers and suppliers, to forecast and plan future business activities.", "The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto continue to impact  our results of operations and \ufb01nancial condition will depend on future developments, which are uncertain  and cannot be predicted.  The COVID-19 pandemic has created signi\ufb01cant volatility, uncertainty, and economic  disruption.  The extent to which the pandemic continues to impact our results of operations and \ufb01nancial condition  will depend on evolving factors that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the following: the duration,  spread, and severity of the pandemic in the countries in which we operate; responsive measures taken by  governmental authorities, businesses, and individuals; the effect on our customers and their demand for our  products and services; the effect on our suppliers and disruptions to the global supply chain; our ability to sell and  provide our products and services and otherwise operate effectively, including as a result of travel restrictions and  associates working from home; disruptions to our operations resulting from associate illness; restrictions or  disruptions to, or reduced availability of, transportation; customers\u2019 ability to pay for our services and products;  closures of our facilities or those of our customers or suppliers; the impact of reduced customer demand on  purchasing incentives we earn from suppliers; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating  conditions can resume.  The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have resulted and will result in lost or delayed sales  to us, and we have experienced business disruptions as we have modi\ufb01ed our business practices (including travel,  work locations, and cancellation of physical participation in meetings).  In addition, the pandemic\u2019s impact on the  economy may affect the proper functioning of \ufb01nancial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates,  product and energy costs, and interest rates.  Even after the pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience  adverse impacts to our business as a result of any economic recession or depression that has occurred or may occur  in the future.  The pandemic\u2019s effects may also amplify the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual  Report on Form 10-K, and may continue to materially and adversely affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, results of  operations, and/or stock price.", "Our business could be adversely affected if we do not successfully execute our strategies to grow sales and  earnings.  We have numerous strategies and initiatives to grow sales, leveraging the breadth of our product  offering, supplier relationships, and value-added technical capabilities to differentiate us and improve our  competitive position.  We also continually seek to enhance gross margins, manage costs, and otherwise improve  earnings.  Many of our activities target improvements to the consistency of our operating practices across our  hundreds of locations.", "Consolidation in our customers' and suppliers' industries could adversely affect our business and \ufb01nancial  results.  Consolidation continues among our product suppliers and customers.  As customer industries consolidate or  customers otherwise aggregate their purchasing power, a greater proportion of our sales could be derived from  large volume contracts, which could adversely impact margins.  Consolidation among customers can trigger changes  in their purchasing strategies, potentially shifting blocks of business among competing distributors and contributing  to volatility in our sales and pressure on prices.  Similarly, continued consolidation among our suppliers could reduce  our ability to negotiate favorable pricing and other commercial terms for our inventory purchases.  There can be no  assurance we will be able to take advantage of consolidation trends.", "Loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, or changes in distribution programs could  adversely affect our sales and earnings.  Our business depends on maintaining an immediately available supply of  various products to meet customer demand.  Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding,  but are terminable by either party.  The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability  of their products, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and have a material adverse effect on our business.  Supply interruptions could arise from raw materials shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity or utilization to  meet demand, \ufb01nancial problems or insolvency, trade issues, labor disputes, public health emergencies, weather  conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control.", "In addition, as a distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors  generally, or us in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts us.", "An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings.  We operate in a highly competitive industry.  The  industry remains fragmented, but is consolidating.  Our principal competitors are specialist and general line  distributors of bearings, power transmission products, \ufb02uid power components and systems, \ufb02ow control solutions,  automation technologies, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, oil\ufb01eld  supplies, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and", "multinational operations, and can include catalog and e-commerce companies.  Competition is largely focused in the  local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities, and price.  Existing competitors have, and future competitors may have, greater \ufb01nancial or other resources than we do,  broader or more appealing product or service offerings, greater market presence, stronger relationships with key  suppliers or customers, or better name recognition.  If existing or future competitors seek to gain or to retain market  share by aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, or otherwise through competitive advantage, our sales and  pro\ufb01tability could be adversely affected.  Our success will also be affected by our ability to continue to provide  competitive offerings as customer preferences or demands evolve, for example with respect to our product and  services portfolio or our e-commerce and inventory management solutions.  Technological evolution or other factors  can render product offerings obsolete, potentially impairing our competitive position and our inventory values.", "Trade policies can have an adverse impact on industries we sell into, potentially negatively affecting our  net sales and pro\ufb01ts.  Changes to trade policies or agreements, including the recently enacted United States- Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), can disrupt geographic and industry demand trends.  While Applied primarily  serves markets in the United States, a signi\ufb01cant portion of our domestic customer base exports or serves exporters.  U.S. government-imposed tariffs or taxes that penalize imports can be met with countermeasures by foreign  governments, or can otherwise impact industrial production, and it becomes dif\ufb01cult to determine what the net  effect of such actions is on Applied\u2019s net sales and pro\ufb01ts.  It is possible that such changes could adversely affect our  \ufb01nancial results.", "Changes in customer or product mix and downward pressure on sales prices could cause our gross pro\ufb01t  percentage to \ufb02uctuate or decline.  Because we serve thousands of customers in many end markets, and offer  millions of products, with varying pro\ufb01tability levels, changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross  pro\ufb01t percentage to \ufb02uctuate or decline.  Downward pressure on sales prices could also cause our gross pro\ufb01t  percentage to \ufb02uctuate or decline.  We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of de\ufb02ation,  pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition.", "Our ability to transact business is highly reliant on information systems.  A disruption or security breach  could materially affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, or results of operation.  We depend on information  systems to, among other things, process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections,  purchase products, manage accounts payable processes, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost- effective operations, provide superior service to customers, conduct business communications, and compile \ufb01nancial  results.  A serious, prolonged disruption of our information systems, due to man-made or natural causes, including  power or telecommunications outage, or breach in security, could materially impair fundamental business processes  and increase expenses, decrease sales, or otherwise reduce earnings.", "Because of our reliance on information systems, we are vulnerable to the growing threat of damage or intrusion  from computer viruses or other cyber-attacks, including ransomware and business e-mail compromise, on our  systems.  Despite precautions taken to prevent or mitigate the risks of such incidents, breaches of our systems could  not only cause business disruption, but could also result in the theft of funds, the theft, loss, or disclosure of", "In recent years, we replaced multiple legacy information system applications with newer software platforms, to  enhance our business information and transaction systems to support future growth.  We continue with and  consider additional enterprise resource planning system conversions, on a smaller scale, in discrete business  operations.  Despite extensive planning, we could experience disruptions related to the implementation because of  the projects' complexity.  The potential adverse consequences could include delays, loss of information, diminished  management reporting capabilities, damage to our ability to process transactions timely, harm to our control  environment, diminished employee productivity, and unanticipated increases in costs.  Further, our ability to achieve  anticipated operational bene\ufb01ts from new platforms is not assured.", "Acquisitions are a key component of our anticipated growth.  We may not be able to identify or to  complete future acquisitions, to integrate them effectively into our operations, or to realize their  anticipated bene\ufb01ts.  Many industries we serve are mature.  As a result, acquisitions of businesses have been  important to our growth.  While we wish to continue to acquire businesses, we may not be able to identify and to  negotiate suitable acquisitions, to obtain \ufb01nancing for them on satisfactory terms, or otherwise to complete  acquisitions.  In addition, existing and future competitors, and private equity \ufb01rms, increasingly compete with us for  acquisitions, which can increase prices and reduce the number of suitable opportunities; the acquisitions they make  can also adversely impact our market position.", "We seek acquisition opportunities that complement and expand our operations.  However, substantial costs, delays,  or other dif\ufb01culties related to integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business or \ufb01nancial results.  For  example, we could face signi\ufb01cant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating information systems, personnel,  and operations, and implementing procedures and controls in a timely and ef\ufb01cient manner.", "Our business depends on our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain quali\ufb01ed employees.  Our  success depends on hiring, developing, motivating, and retaining key employees, including executive, managerial,  sales, professional, and other personnel.  We may have dif\ufb01culty identifying and hiring quali\ufb01ed personnel.  In  addition, we may have dif\ufb01culty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against  us.  With respect to sales and customer service positions in particular, we greatly bene\ufb01t from having employees who  are familiar with the products and services we sell, and their applications, as well as with our customer and supplier  relationships.  The loss of key employees or our failure to attract and retain other quali\ufb01ed workers could disrupt or  adversely affect our business.  In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased competition", "An interruption of operations at our headquarters or distribution centers, or in our means of transporting  product, could adversely impact our business.  Our business depends on maintaining operating activity at our  headquarters and distribution centers, and being able to receive and deliver product in a timely manner.  A serious,  prolonged interruption due to power or telecommunications outage, security incident, terrorist attack, public health  emergency, earthquake, extreme weather events, other natural disasters, \ufb01re, \ufb02ood, transportation disruption, or  other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and \ufb01nancial results.", "Our operations outside the United States increase our exposure to global economic and political conditions  and currency exchange volatility.  Foreign operations contributed 13% of our sales in 2020.  This presence  outside the U.S. increases risks associated with exposure to more volatile economic conditions, political instability,  cultural and legal differences in conducting business (including corrupt practices), economic and trade policy actions,  and currency exchange \ufb02uctuations.", "We believe having a local presence is important to serving our customers, so we maintain service centers and other  operations in local markets throughout the countries in which we operate.  At June 30, 2020, we owned real  properties at 117 locations and leased 433 locations.  Certain properties house more than one operation.", "The properties in Baldwinsville, Newark, Midland, and Stafford are used in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Fontana and Longview properties are used in both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and the Fluid  Power & Flow Control segment.  The remaining properties are used in the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.", "We consider our properties generally suf\ufb01cient to meet our requirements for of\ufb01ce space and inventory stocking.", "When opening new operations, we have tended to lease rather than purchase real property.  We do not consider  any service center, distribution center, or shop property to be material, because we believe that, if it becomes  necessary or desirable to relocate an operation, other suitable property could be found.", "In addition to operating locations, we own or lease certain properties which in the aggregate are not material and  are either for sale, lease, or sublease to third parties due to a relocation or closing.  We also may lease or sublease to  others unused portions of buildings.", "During the current \ufb01scal year, the COVID-19 pandemic signi\ufb01cantly impacted the business.  We are classi\ufb01ed as  critical infrastructure and our facilities remain open and operational as they adhere to health and safety policies.   Demand was challenging in the second half of the \ufb01scal year as customers in many of our core manufacturing end  markets idled or reduced production capacity and facility utilization in response to the pandemic.  Underlying trends  remain subdued but are exhibiting stability into our \ufb01scal 2021 \ufb01rst quarter with organic sales down mid-teens year- over-year through early August.  We are continuing to monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and continue  to take appropriate cost actions.  Cost measures implemented to date include reduced discretionary spend, staff  realignments, temporary furloughs and pay reductions, suspension of 401(k) company match, and other expense  reduction actions.", "With more than 6,200 employees across North America, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, Applied Industrial  Technologies (\u201cApplied,\u201d the \u201cCompany,\u201d \u201cWe,\u201d \u201cUs\u201d or \u201cOur\u201d) is a leading value-added distributor and technical  solutions provider of industrial motion, \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, automation technologies, and related maintenance  supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve MRO (Maintenance, Repair  & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all industrial markets through our  multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  We have a long tradition of growth  dating back to 1923, the year our business was founded in Cleveland, Ohio.  At June 30, 2020, business was  conducted in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore from  approximately 580 facilities.", "Applied monitors several economic indices that have been key indicators for industrial economic activity in the United  States.  These include the Industrial Production (IP) and Manufacturing Capacity Utilization (MCU) indices published  by the Federal Reserve Board and the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) published by the Institute for Supply  Management (ISM).  Historically, our performance correlates well with the MCU, which measures productivity and  calculates a ratio of actual manufacturing output versus potential full capacity output.  When manufacturing plants  are running at a high rate of capacity, they tend to wear out machinery and require replacement parts.", "This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated \ufb01nancial statements for  the years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019.  For the comparison of the years ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, see the  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2019  Annual Report on Form 10-K.", "Our gross pro\ufb01t margin decreased to 28.9% in \ufb01scal 2020 compared to 29.0% in \ufb01scal 2019.  The gross margin was  negatively affected by 12 basis points for $3.9 million of non-routine expense recorded within cost of sales related to  inventory reserves for excess and obsolete inventory for certain locations that were closed during the year within the  U.S. operations of the Service Center Based Distribution segment.", "At June 30, 2020, we had a total of 580 operating facilities in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico,   Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, versus 600 at June 30, 2019.", "We evaluate the recoverability of our slow-moving and inactive inventories at least quarterly.  We estimate the  recoverable cost of such inventory by product type while considering factors such as its age, historic and current  demand trends, the physical condition of the inventory, as well as assumptions regarding future demand.  Our ability  to recover our cost for slow moving or obsolete inventory can be affected by such factors as general market  conditions, future customer demand and relationships with suppliers.  A signi\ufb01cant portion of the products we hold  in inventory have long shelf lives, are not highly susceptible to obsolescence.", "Important risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to the operations levels  of our customers and the economic factors that affect them; risks relating to the effects of the COVID-19  pandemic; changes in the prices for products and services relative to the cost of providing them; reduction  in supplier inventory purchase incentives; loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability,  changes in supplier distribution programs, inability of suppliers to perform, and transportation disruptions;  the cost of products and energy and other operating costs; changes in customer preferences for products  and services of the nature and brands sold by us; changes in customer procurement policies and practices;  competitive pressures; our reliance on information systems and risks relating to their proper functioning,  the security of those systems, and the data stored in or transmitted through them; the impact of economic  conditions on the collectability of trade receivables; reduced demand for our products in targeted markets  due to reasons including consolidation in customer industries; our ability to retain and attract quali\ufb01ed  sales and customer service personnel and other skilled executives, managers and professionals; our ability  to identify and complete acquisitions, integrate them effectively, and realize their anticipated bene\ufb01ts; the  variability, timing and nature of new business opportunities including acquisitions, alliances, customer  relationships, and supplier authorizations; the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in connection  with acquisitions; our ability to access capital markets as needed on reasonable terms; disruption of  operations at our headquarters or distribution centers; risks and uncertainties associated with our foreign  operations, including volatile economic conditions, political instability, cultural and legal differences, and  currency exchange \ufb02uctuations; the potential for goodwill and intangible asset impairment; changes in  accounting policies and practices; our ability to maintain effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting;  organizational changes within the Company; risks related to legal proceedings to which we are a party;  potentially adverse government regulation, legislation, or policies, both enacted and under consideration,  including with respect to federal tax policy, international trade, data privacy and security, and government  contracting; and the occurrence of extraordinary events (including prolonged labor disputes, power  outages, telecommunication outages, terrorist acts, public health emergency, earthquakes, extreme  weather events, other natural disasters, \ufb01res, \ufb02oods, and accidents).  Other factors and unanticipated  events could also adversely affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition or results of operations.", "We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United  States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting as of June 30, 2020, based on the criteria  established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of  the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 14, 2020, expressed an unquali\ufb01ed opinion on the Company's  internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting.", "Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the \u201cCompany\u201d or \u201cApplied\u201d) is a leading value-added  distributor and technical solutions provider of industrial motion, \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, automation technologies,  and related maintenance supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve  MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all  industrial markets through our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  Although  the Company does not generally manufacture the products it sells, it does assemble and repair certain products and  systems.", "Fiscal 2020 The decline in net sales in the third and fourth quarters of \ufb01scal 2020 is due to slowness in key end markets largely  attributable to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.", "There have not been any changes in internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting during the quarter ended June 30, 2020  that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over  \ufb01nancial reporting.  As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, a signi\ufb01cant portion of our workforce began working  remotely in March 2020.  These changes to the working environment did not have a material effect on our internal  controls over \ufb01nancial reporting during the most recent quarter.  We are continually monitoring and assessing the  COVID-19 pandemic on our internal controls to minimize the impact on their design and operating effectiveness.", "The Company\u2019s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting and for its  assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management\u2019s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the  Company\u2019s internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting based on our audit.  We are a public accounting \ufb01rm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting was  maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over \ufb01nancial  reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered  necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "After reevaluating the Old Peer Group this year, Applied elected to replace  it with a published index because we believe the Dow Jones US Industrial  Suppliers Index provides a meaningful comparison of total shareholder  return performance and will be more convenient to administer.", "convenience, and expertise. in virtually all industrial markets through our  knowledge serve MRO and OEM end users  value-added distributor and technical solutions", "Many have used the word unprecedented to describe  recent events and the subsequent business environment we have experienced.", "Here at Applied\u00ae, the word unwavering stands out,  as it characterizes the dedication of our associates during these challenging times brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic.", "While COVID has reset the stage in many ways, we know how we respond determines our performance\u2026 and success.", "Across our  business, we have implemented operational procedures and followed guidelines from the CDC and other health organizations.", "Through  social distancing, virtual meetings and sales calls, distance learning and more, we have remained productive and have learned many best  practices along the way \u2013 all in an effort to serve our customers and keep industry running.", "I am incredibly proud of our teamwork and innovation which allow us to proactively and effectively respond across many industries  where we play a key role in keeping the industrial infrastructure running productively.", "Our track record of operational discipline  while preserving our capability to serve is once again apparent in this environment.", "This was highlighted in fiscal 2020 as we  controlled costs and margins, generated record cash, and enhanced our balance sheet despite the softer demand environment.", "We understand our requirements and know how to manage through any part of the cycle.", "More than ever before, our comprehensive portfolio of products and services \u2013 combined with our specialized  expertise and know-how \u2013 is bridging today\u2019s challenges with tomorrow\u2019s opportunities.", "From the onset of the pandemic, we were classified as  an essential business supporting the important industrial  infrastructure with critical products and services.", "Our  facilities remained open and operational through the  various shelter-in-place and stay-at-home orders, while  adhering to health and safety protocols.", "With more  than 50% of our service center network demand tied  to break-fix requirements, customers depend on us  for critical parts, services and solutions that sustain  operations and support vital areas of the economy.  For some customers, a slowdown prompts incremental  maintenance on their direct production infrastructure  and systems, and we remain a valued partner in  supporting their engineering and maintenance teams in  addressing related needs.", "Today\u2019s environment  is also prompting us to identify new opportunities  through our specialty flow control capabilities, as  well as complementary consumables and emerging  automation technologies.", "We have proven to be  valuable on multiple fronts.", "Targeted investments in recent years have positioned Applied as the leading distributor of technical solutions  across the industrial supply chain.", "This has differentiated  our value proposition and will continue to be ever  more relevant as the industrial economy starts its next  phase of growth with increasing supply chain and  technical requirements.", "As industrial equipment and  facility infrastructure continues to ramp, it will increase  critical break-fix demand across our network, where  we can respond with local expertise and the most  comprehensive suite of motion control technologies   and services within our industry\u2026 and in our   Company\u2019s history.", "Additionally, behaviors reshaped by the pandemic  will reinforce secular growth opportunities tied  to our technical service and engineered solutions  portfolio, which has become a greater portion of  our business in recent years.", "In particular, we believe  customers will increasingly focus on addressing  skilled labor constraints, plant efficiency, and  regulatory requirements, while considerations", "As a value-added business partner, we continue to  look for new and innovative ways to work with our  customers and suppliers to maximize productivity  and investment returns.", "Emerging technologies have  demonstrated encouraging capabilities in helping  reduce downtime and MRO costs through a network  of sensors, smart devices and machine learning  algorithms.", "This data and digitization movement \u2013  often referred to as the Industrial Internet of Things  (IIoT) \u2013 has been steadily building momentum  throughout the industrial and manufacturing sectors.  Through the Applied IoT ConnectTM Program, we  continue to develop the best ways to leverage these offerings and implement solutions for  connected operations.", "We are also leveraging technology and data internally for continuous improvement and team collaboration  on staying \u201cclose\u201d to our customers and executing  business during these times.", "Our Applied Maintenance  Supplies & SolutionsSM team has introduced virtual  ordering by integrating a video conferencing app  to scan product bins and place orders, providing a  contactless and touchless ordering option.", "Furthermore,  we are strengthening our Applied.com channel and  digital sales capabilities through chat assistance  and engagement initiatives, further enhancing our  customers\u2019 procurement experience and driving new  growth opportunities.", "Across our organization, we have many significant and exciting near-term opportunities to productively and  effectively impact our customers and the important  industrial infrastructure.", "A focus on living the Applied    Core Values is reinforced in this business climate, further  supporting our efforts and helping to generate success  for our customers and Applied.", "These values continue to influence how we engage new  end users, fellow associates, suppliers, communities,  and other important stakeholders.", "We have received  letters from customers across our globally-served  industries acknowledging our support and the value we  provide.", "Additionally, we continue  to have an opportunity \u2013 and collective responsibility \u2013 to  further develop plans, actions and results that promote  fair, honest and ethical practices across our business.  We are proud to note that we have been ranked  among the top 15 of Ohio Fortune 1000 companies  for Diversity in Corporate Governance, according to a  recent report from the National Diversity Council.", "We Are AppliedSM, and we have a strong foundation,  expanding capabilities and outstanding potential as the  leading technical products, services and solutions provider  to industrial markets.", "As we enter fiscal 2021, we see  significant opportunity as we leverage our industry position  to effectively adapt to the evolving industrial landscape, and  invest in new and emerging growth opportunities.", "While we are facing some challenges as the industrial economy transitions from a generational pandemic, we  have a remarkably strong business model that generates  cash and adapts well throughout the cycle, as we have  demonstrated.", "Our strategy is deeply focused on the  opportunities ahead of us and moving the Company  toward its long-term financial goals for significant earnings  growth and value creation in the coming years.", "With our  100-year anniversary approaching, I firmly believe our best  days are ahead!", "We are a leading distributor and solutions provider of industrial motion, power, and control technologies.  Through  our comprehensive network of approximately 6,200 associates and 580 facilities including service center, \ufb02uid  power, \ufb02ow control, and automation operations, as well as repair shops and distribution centers, we offer a selection  of more than 7 million stock keeping units with a focus on industrial bearings, power transmission products, \ufb02uid  power components and systems, specialty \ufb02ow control solutions, and robotics and machinery automation.  We  market our products with a set of service solutions including inventory management, engineering, design, repair, and  systems integration, as well as customized mechanical, fabricated rubber, and shop services.", "Our customers use our  products and services for both MRO (maintenance, repair, and operating) and OEM (original equipment  manufacturing) applications across a variety of end markets primarily in North America, as well as Australia, New  Zealand, and Singapore.  Headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, Applied and its predecessor companies have engaged in  business since 1923.", "VALUE PROPOSITION We serve a segment of the industrial distribution market that requires technical expertise and service given that our  products and solutions are directly tied to industrial companies\u2019 production and ef\ufb01ciency initiatives.  As such, we  believe we are integral to our customers\u2019 supply chains considering the critical nature and direct exposure our  solutions have on our customers\u2019 core production equipment and plant capabilities.  While we compete with other  distributors and service providers offering products and solutions addressing this area of the industrial supply chain,  we believe our industry position and value proposition bene\ufb01ts from relative advantages tied to the following key  attributes:", "We focus on helping customers minimize their production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce  overall procurement and maintenance costs.  A primary focus for our service center network is responding to a  critical \u201cbreak-\ufb01x\u201d situation, which requires knowledge of a customer\u2019s facility, localized inventory, timely delivery  capabilities, service execution, and accountability.  In addition, our \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, and automation  operations design, engineer, and integrate solutions focused on making a customer\u2019s operations and equipment  more productive, cost-ef\ufb01cient, and automated.  We believe our products and solutions are increasingly critical", "within the industrial supply chain given an aging and tighter customer labor force, more sophisticated production  equipment and processes, a greater focus on plant \ufb02oor optimization, and compliance and regulatory requirements.", "INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION We primarily compete within North America which we believe offers signi\ufb01cant growth potential given our industry  position, established distribution and sales network, market fragmentation, and customer technical requirements, as  well as opportunities tied to automation and smart technologies.  Growth within our industry is in\ufb02uenced by  broader industrial production and capacity utilization, as well as in\ufb02ation, labor dynamics, capital spending,  geopolitical events, factory optimization initiatives, changes in industrial equipment technologies, and supply chain  requirements.", "Our principal competitors are specialist and general line distributors of bearings, power transmission products, \ufb02uid  power components and systems, \ufb02ow control solutions, industrial rubber products, and linear motion components,  and to a lesser extent providers of tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These  competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational operations.  We also compete with original  equipment manufacturers and integrators.  The identity and number of our competitors vary throughout the  geographic, industry, and product markets we serve.", "STRATEGIC GROWTH AND OPERATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES \u2022  Capture market share across our core service center network.  Our network of service centers located  close to industrial companies allows us to respond quickly and effectively to critical MRO situations involving  direct production infrastructure and industrial equipment.  We believe more sophisticated industrial production  processes, customer labor constraints, and increased manufacturing activity across North America could drive  greater demand for our products and services.  We continue to deploy initiatives to further enhance our  capabilities across our service center network and gain market share.  These include investments in analytics,  strategic account penetration, sales process optimization, talent development, and digital capabilities, as well as  fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded product and service platform across \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control,  automation, and consumables solutions.", "\u2022  Execute ongoing operational initiatives supporting margin pro\ufb01le.  We have a number of initiatives  focused on driving operational improvements throughout the organization.  Systems investments in recent  years including common ERP platforms are supporting opportunities in leveraging shared services, re\ufb01ning our  sales management process, and standardizing pricing and sourcing functions, while we continue to optimize  our shop and distribution network and analytics.  We also remain focused on achieving margin synergies across  our operations following expansion into \ufb02ow control and automation.  This includes enhanced pricing  functions, leveraging vendor procurement, freight savings, and re\ufb01ned cost management.  Combined with  growth in more pro\ufb01table areas of our business, we see ongoing opportunity to optimize our margin pro\ufb01le  and cash generation in coming years.", "\u2022  Pursue acquisitions to supplement growth and strengthen industry position.  We expect to pursue  additional acquisitions aligned with our growth strategy and long-term \ufb01nancial targets.  We view acquisitions", "\u2022  Leverage technical industry position in developing growth around emerging industrial technologies.   We believe we are positioned to capture emerging opportunities relating to automation and smart technologies  focused on optimizing and connecting customers\u2019 industrial supply chains.  Our position re\ufb02ects our technical  product focus, service capabilities, embedded customer relationships and knowledge across direct production  infrastructure and equipment, and existing supplier relationships.  Following our acquisition of Olympus  Controls in \ufb01scal 2020, we now offer products and solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and  distribution of motion control, machine vision, and robotic technologies.  We expect to continue to expand our  automation footprint and capabilities in coming years, as well as pursue opportunities tied to the Industrial  Internet of Things (IIoT).  We believe this market potential could be meaningful as technology continues to  converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end-markets.", "\u2022  Extend our leading \ufb02uid power and \ufb02ow control position as demand for comprehensive solutions  grows.  We provide innovative \ufb02uid power and \ufb02ow control solutions including systems design and  engineering, electronic control integration, software programing, valve actuation, compliance consulting,  fabrication and assembly, and dedicated service and repair.  Demand for these solutions is increasing across a  variety of industrial, off-highway mobile, technology, and process related applications given a greater focus on  power consumption, plant ef\ufb01ciency and automation, emissions control, remote monitoring, advancements in  machining, regulatory and compliance standards, and data analytics.  We believe our service and engineering  capabilities, shop network, and supplier relationships are key competitive advantages supporting our ability to  capture a greater share of this market growth opportunity in coming years.", "OPERATIONS Our distribution and sales network consists of approximately 460 locations in our Service Center Distribution  segment and 120 locations in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  This includes service centers, distribution  centers, and facilities tied to our \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, and automation operations.  Our service centers resemble  local inventory hubs located in close proximity to our customers and focused primarily on MRO related ful\ufb01llment  and service needs.  Our \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, and automation locations support technical and shop-oriented  services integral to the more specialized and integrated nature of the products and solutions they provide.  Other  operations and channels we market through include inventory management services for indirect consumable supplies  and digital solutions including our Applied.com website, electronic data interchange (EDI) and other electronic  interfaces with customers' technology platforms and plant maintenance systems.", "Our distribution centers provide daily service to our service centers, helping replenish inventories and shipping  products directly to customers where appropriate.  An ef\ufb01cient supply chain and timely delivery of our products is  vital to our value proposition particularly when customers require products for emergency repairs.  We utilize  dedicated third-party transportation providers, our own delivery vehicles, as well as surface and air common carrier  and courier services.  Customers may also pick up items at our service centers.  We maintain product inventory levels  at each service center tailored to the local market.  These inventories consist of standard items as well as other items  speci\ufb01c to local customer demand.", "Our operations are primarily based in the U.S. where 87% of our \ufb01scal 2020 sales were generated.  We also have  international operations, the largest of which is in Canada (8% of \ufb01scal 2020 sales) with the balance (5% of \ufb01scal  2020 sales) in Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.", "SUPPLIERS We are a leading distributor of products including bearings, power transmission products, engineered \ufb02uid power  components and systems, specialty \ufb02ow control solutions, machinery and robotics automation products, industrial  rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.", "These products are generally supplied to us by manufacturers whom we serve as a non-exclusive distributor.  The  suppliers also may provide us product training, as well as sales and marketing support.  Authorizations to represent  particular suppliers and product lines vary by geographic region, particularly for our \ufb02uid power and \ufb02ow control  businesses.  We believe our supplier relationships are generally good, and many have existed for decades.  The  disruption of relationships with certain suppliers, or the disruption of their operations, could adversely affect our  business.", "Our product suppliers typically con\ufb01ne their direct sales activities to large-volume transactions, mainly with large  original equipment manufacturers.  The suppliers generally do not sell maintenance and repair products directly to  the customer, but instead refer the customer to us or another distributor.", "MARKETS  We purchase from thousands of product manufacturers and resell the products to thousands of customers in a wide  variety of industries, including agriculture and food processing, cement, chemicals and petrochemicals, fabricated  metals, forest products, industrial machinery and equipment, mining, oil and gas, primary metals, transportation, and  utilities, as well as to government entities.  Customers range from very large businesses, with which we may have  multiple-location relationships, to very small ones.  We are not signi\ufb01cantly dependent on a single customer or group  of customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole, and no single  customer accounts for more than 3% of our \ufb01scal 2020 sales.", "SERVICES We believe part of our success, differentiation, and competitive advantage is attributable to the comprehensive set of  services and solutions we provide, which we view as critical given the technical nature and application of our core  product offering of motion, power, control, and automation technologies.  The foundation of our service capabilities  lies with our technically oriented associate team, which includes engineers, industry segment specialists, mechanics,  technicians, \ufb02uid power specialists, as well as our systems, shop network, and supplier relationships.  We believe  knowledge and service capabilities relating to our core product offering are increasingly needed across our customer  base given skilled labor constraints within their operations, maintenance requirements, and more sophisticated plant  equipment and processes.  Our services and solutions help customers minimize production downtime, improve", "as an important growth consideration given high fragmentation, greater operational and technical  requirements, and supplier authorizations within the markets we serve.  We believe our sourcing strategy, cash  generation capabilities, and operational discipline are key to our acquisition success.  Over the near to  intermediate-term, our acquisition priorities are focused on continuing to expand our current offerings, while  further enhancing our technical differentiation and value-added service capabilities.", "Fluid Power & Flow Control.  Our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment includes our operations that specialize in  distributing, engineering, designing, integrating, and repairing hydraulic and pneumatic \ufb02uid power technologies,  and engineered \ufb02ow control products and services.  We believe we are the largest distributor and solutions provider  of \ufb02uid power and industrial \ufb02ow control products and solutions in the U.S.  The segment also includes our  operations that focus on robotic and machinery automation solutions following the acquisition of Olympus Controls  in August 2019.", "Our specialty \ufb02ow control operations encompass the operations of our \ufb01scal 2018 acquisition of FCX Performance,  Inc., which provides highly engineered process \ufb02ow control products, solutions, and services.  Products include  pumps, valves, \ufb01ttings, hoses, process instrumentation, actuators, and \ufb01ltration supplies which are used to control  the \ufb02ow of liquids and gases in mission-critical industrial applications.  Our \ufb02ow control products and services are  focused on MRO related applications; OEMs; and engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) \ufb01rms across a  variety of industries including chemicals, steel, power, oil and gas, pulp and paper, pharmaceuticals, food and  beverage, and general industrials.  Similar to our \ufb02uid power operations, our \ufb02ow control offering includes technical  service capabilities such as \ufb02ow control systems integration, repair services, valve actuation, process instrumentation,  pipe and hose fabrication, and compliance consulting.", "machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs.  By providing high levels of service,  product and industry expertise, and technical support, while at the same time offering product breadth and  competitive pricing, we believe we develop stronger, longer-lasting, and more pro\ufb01table customer relationships.  See  the Reportable Segments section below for more detail on the various service solutions we provide to customers.", "REPORTABLE SEGMENTS We report results of operations in two segments: 1) Service Center Based Distribution, and 2) Fluid Power & Flow  Control.  In \ufb01scal 2020, our Service Center Based Distribution segment represented 69% of our total sales, while our  Fluid Power & Flow Control segment represented 31% of our total sales.", "Service Center Based Distribution.  Our Service Center Based Distribution segment includes our legacy MRO  distribution operations across North America, Australia, and New Zealand.  This business operates through local  service centers and distribution centers with a focus on providing products and services addressing the maintenance  and repair of motion control infrastructure and production equipment.  Products primarily include industrial bearings,  motors, belting, drives, couplings, pumps, linear motion products, hydraulic and pneumatic components, \ufb01ltration  supplies, and hoses, as well as other related supplies for general operational needs of customers\u2019 machinery and  equipment.", "WORKING CAPITAL Our working capital position is discussed in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.", "Our robotic and machinery automation operations encompass our \ufb01scal 2020 acquisition of Olympus Controls,  which provides solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and distribution of motion control, machine  vision, and robotic technologies for OEMs, machine builders, integrators, and other industrial and technology end  users.  Products and solutions are marketed across a variety of industries including technology, medical, life sciences,  logistics, and general industrial.  Olympus Controls helps customers develop, produce, and integrate machine  automation solutions using comprehensive technology and industry processes.", "BACKLOG AND SEASONALITY   Backlog orders are not material to our business as a whole, although they are a more important factor for our \ufb02uid  power and \ufb02ow control businesses.  Our business has exhibited minor seasonality.  In particular, sales per day during  the \ufb01rst half of our \ufb01scal year have historically been slightly lower than the second half due, in part, to the impact of  customer plant shutdowns, summer vacations and holidays.", "PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES, AND LICENSES  Customer recognition of our service marks and trade names, including Applied Industrial Technologies\u00ae, Applied\u00ae,  and AIT\u00ae, is an important contributing factor to our sales.  Patents and licenses are not of material importance to  our business.", "RAW MATERIALS AND GENERAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS   Our operations are dependent on general industrial and economic conditions.  We would be adversely affected by  the unavailability of raw materials to our suppliers, prolonged labor disputes experienced by suppliers or customers,  or by events or conditions that have an adverse effect on industrial activity generally in the markets we serve or on  key customer industries.", "In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could  materially affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the only  risks facing the Company.  Certain risks are identi\ufb01ed below in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion  and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.  Additional risks not currently known to us, risks that could apply broadly to issuers, or risks that we currently deem  immaterial, may also impact our business and operations.  Risks can also change over time.", "Our business depends heavily on the operating levels of our customers and the factors that affect them,  including general economic conditions.  The markets for our products and services are subject to conditions or  events that affect demand for goods and materials that our customers produce.  Consequently, demand for our  products and services has been and will continue to be in\ufb02uenced by most of the same factors that affect demand  for and production of customers' goods and materials.", "When customers or prospective customers reduce production levels because of lower demand, increased supply,  higher costs, tight credit conditions, unfavorable currency exchange rates, adverse trade policies, foreign  competition, other competitive disadvantage, offshoring of production, or other reasons, their need for our products  and services diminishes.  Selling prices and terms of sale come under pressure, adversely affecting the pro\ufb01tability  and the durability of customer relationships, and credit losses may increase.  Inventory management becomes more  dif\ufb01cult in times of economic uncertainty.  Volatile economic and credit conditions also make it more dif\ufb01cult for us,  as well as our customers and suppliers, to forecast and plan future business activities.", "The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto continue to impact  our results of operations and \ufb01nancial condition will depend on future developments, which are uncertain  and cannot be predicted.  The COVID-19 pandemic has created signi\ufb01cant volatility, uncertainty, and economic  disruption.  The extent to which the pandemic continues to impact our results of operations and \ufb01nancial condition  will depend on evolving factors that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the following: the duration,  spread, and severity of the pandemic in the countries in which we operate; responsive measures taken by  governmental authorities, businesses, and individuals; the effect on our customers and their demand for our  products and services; the effect on our suppliers and disruptions to the global supply chain; our ability to sell and  provide our products and services and otherwise operate effectively, including as a result of travel restrictions and  associates working from home; disruptions to our operations resulting from associate illness; restrictions or  disruptions to, or reduced availability of, transportation; customers\u2019 ability to pay for our services and products;  closures of our facilities or those of our customers or suppliers; the impact of reduced customer demand on  purchasing incentives we earn from suppliers; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating  conditions can resume.  The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have resulted and will result in lost or delayed sales  to us, and we have experienced business disruptions as we have modi\ufb01ed our business practices (including travel,  work locations, and cancellation of physical participation in meetings).  In addition, the pandemic\u2019s impact on the  economy may affect the proper functioning of \ufb01nancial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates,  product and energy costs, and interest rates.  Even after the pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience  adverse impacts to our business as a result of any economic recession or depression that has occurred or may occur  in the future.  The pandemic\u2019s effects may also amplify the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual  Report on Form 10-K, and may continue to materially and adversely affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, results of  operations, and/or stock price.", "Our business could be adversely affected if we do not successfully execute our strategies to grow sales and  earnings.  We have numerous strategies and initiatives to grow sales, leveraging the breadth of our product  offering, supplier relationships, and value-added technical capabilities to differentiate us and improve our  competitive position.  We also continually seek to enhance gross margins, manage costs, and otherwise improve  earnings.  Many of our activities target improvements to the consistency of our operating practices across our  hundreds of locations.", "Consolidation in our customers' and suppliers' industries could adversely affect our business and \ufb01nancial  results.  Consolidation continues among our product suppliers and customers.  As customer industries consolidate or  customers otherwise aggregate their purchasing power, a greater proportion of our sales could be derived from  large volume contracts, which could adversely impact margins.  Consolidation among customers can trigger changes  in their purchasing strategies, potentially shifting blocks of business among competing distributors and contributing  to volatility in our sales and pressure on prices.  Similarly, continued consolidation among our suppliers could reduce  our ability to negotiate favorable pricing and other commercial terms for our inventory purchases.  There can be no  assurance we will be able to take advantage of consolidation trends.", "Loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, or changes in distribution programs could  adversely affect our sales and earnings.  Our business depends on maintaining an immediately available supply of  various products to meet customer demand.  Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding,  but are terminable by either party.  The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability  of their products, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and have a material adverse effect on our business.  Supply interruptions could arise from raw materials shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity or utilization to  meet demand, \ufb01nancial problems or insolvency, trade issues, labor disputes, public health emergencies, weather  conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control.", "In addition, as a distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors  generally, or us in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts us.", "An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings.  We operate in a highly competitive industry.  The  industry remains fragmented, but is consolidating.  Our principal competitors are specialist and general line  distributors of bearings, power transmission products, \ufb02uid power components and systems, \ufb02ow control solutions,  automation technologies, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, oil\ufb01eld  supplies, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and", "multinational operations, and can include catalog and e-commerce companies.  Competition is largely focused in the  local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities, and price.  Existing competitors have, and future competitors may have, greater \ufb01nancial or other resources than we do,  broader or more appealing product or service offerings, greater market presence, stronger relationships with key  suppliers or customers, or better name recognition.  If existing or future competitors seek to gain or to retain market  share by aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, or otherwise through competitive advantage, our sales and  pro\ufb01tability could be adversely affected.  Our success will also be affected by our ability to continue to provide  competitive offerings as customer preferences or demands evolve, for example with respect to our product and  services portfolio or our e-commerce and inventory management solutions.  Technological evolution or other factors  can render product offerings obsolete, potentially impairing our competitive position and our inventory values.", "Trade policies can have an adverse impact on industries we sell into, potentially negatively affecting our  net sales and pro\ufb01ts.  Changes to trade policies or agreements, including the recently enacted United States- Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), can disrupt geographic and industry demand trends.  While Applied primarily  serves markets in the United States, a signi\ufb01cant portion of our domestic customer base exports or serves exporters.  U.S. government-imposed tariffs or taxes that penalize imports can be met with countermeasures by foreign  governments, or can otherwise impact industrial production, and it becomes dif\ufb01cult to determine what the net  effect of such actions is on Applied\u2019s net sales and pro\ufb01ts.  It is possible that such changes could adversely affect our  \ufb01nancial results.", "Changes in customer or product mix and downward pressure on sales prices could cause our gross pro\ufb01t  percentage to \ufb02uctuate or decline.  Because we serve thousands of customers in many end markets, and offer  millions of products, with varying pro\ufb01tability levels, changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross  pro\ufb01t percentage to \ufb02uctuate or decline.  Downward pressure on sales prices could also cause our gross pro\ufb01t  percentage to \ufb02uctuate or decline.  We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of de\ufb02ation,  pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition.", "Our ability to transact business is highly reliant on information systems.  A disruption or security breach  could materially affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, or results of operation.  We depend on information  systems to, among other things, process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections,  purchase products, manage accounts payable processes, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost- effective operations, provide superior service to customers, conduct business communications, and compile \ufb01nancial  results.  A serious, prolonged disruption of our information systems, due to man-made or natural causes, including  power or telecommunications outage, or breach in security, could materially impair fundamental business processes  and increase expenses, decrease sales, or otherwise reduce earnings.", "Because of our reliance on information systems, we are vulnerable to the growing threat of damage or intrusion  from computer viruses or other cyber-attacks, including ransomware and business e-mail compromise, on our  systems.  Despite precautions taken to prevent or mitigate the risks of such incidents, breaches of our systems could  not only cause business disruption, but could also result in the theft of funds, the theft, loss, or disclosure of", "In recent years, we replaced multiple legacy information system applications with newer software platforms, to  enhance our business information and transaction systems to support future growth.  We continue with and  consider additional enterprise resource planning system conversions, on a smaller scale, in discrete business  operations.  Despite extensive planning, we could experience disruptions related to the implementation because of  the projects' complexity.  The potential adverse consequences could include delays, loss of information, diminished  management reporting capabilities, damage to our ability to process transactions timely, harm to our control  environment, diminished employee productivity, and unanticipated increases in costs.  Further, our ability to achieve  anticipated operational bene\ufb01ts from new platforms is not assured.", "Acquisitions are a key component of our anticipated growth.  We may not be able to identify or to  complete future acquisitions, to integrate them effectively into our operations, or to realize their  anticipated bene\ufb01ts.  Many industries we serve are mature.  As a result, acquisitions of businesses have been  important to our growth.  While we wish to continue to acquire businesses, we may not be able to identify and to  negotiate suitable acquisitions, to obtain \ufb01nancing for them on satisfactory terms, or otherwise to complete  acquisitions.  In addition, existing and future competitors, and private equity \ufb01rms, increasingly compete with us for  acquisitions, which can increase prices and reduce the number of suitable opportunities; the acquisitions they make  can also adversely impact our market position.", "We seek acquisition opportunities that complement and expand our operations.  However, substantial costs, delays,  or other dif\ufb01culties related to integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business or \ufb01nancial results.  For  example, we could face signi\ufb01cant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating information systems, personnel,  and operations, and implementing procedures and controls in a timely and ef\ufb01cient manner.", "Our business depends on our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain quali\ufb01ed employees.  Our  success depends on hiring, developing, motivating, and retaining key employees, including executive, managerial,  sales, professional, and other personnel.  We may have dif\ufb01culty identifying and hiring quali\ufb01ed personnel.  In  addition, we may have dif\ufb01culty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against  us.  With respect to sales and customer service positions in particular, we greatly bene\ufb01t from having employees who  are familiar with the products and services we sell, and their applications, as well as with our customer and supplier  relationships.  The loss of key employees or our failure to attract and retain other quali\ufb01ed workers could disrupt or  adversely affect our business.  In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased competition", "An interruption of operations at our headquarters or distribution centers, or in our means of transporting  product, could adversely impact our business.  Our business depends on maintaining operating activity at our  headquarters and distribution centers, and being able to receive and deliver product in a timely manner.  A serious,  prolonged interruption due to power or telecommunications outage, security incident, terrorist attack, public health  emergency, earthquake, extreme weather events, other natural disasters, \ufb01re, \ufb02ood, transportation disruption, or  other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and \ufb01nancial results.", "Our operations outside the United States increase our exposure to global economic and political conditions  and currency exchange volatility.  Foreign operations contributed 13% of our sales in 2020.  This presence  outside the U.S. increases risks associated with exposure to more volatile economic conditions, political instability,  cultural and legal differences in conducting business (including corrupt practices), economic and trade policy actions,  and currency exchange \ufb02uctuations.", "We believe having a local presence is important to serving our customers, so we maintain service centers and other  operations in local markets throughout the countries in which we operate.  At June 30, 2020, we owned real  properties at 117 locations and leased 433 locations.  Certain properties house more than one operation.", "The properties in Baldwinsville, Newark, Midland, and Stafford are used in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Fontana and Longview properties are used in both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and the Fluid  Power & Flow Control segment.  The remaining properties are used in the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.", "We consider our properties generally suf\ufb01cient to meet our requirements for of\ufb01ce space and inventory stocking.", "When opening new operations, we have tended to lease rather than purchase real property.  We do not consider  any service center, distribution center, or shop property to be material, because we believe that, if it becomes  necessary or desirable to relocate an operation, other suitable property could be found.", "In addition to operating locations, we own or lease certain properties which in the aggregate are not material and  are either for sale, lease, or sublease to third parties due to a relocation or closing.  We also may lease or sublease to  others unused portions of buildings.", "During the current \ufb01scal year, the COVID-19 pandemic signi\ufb01cantly impacted the business.  We are classi\ufb01ed as  critical infrastructure and our facilities remain open and operational as they adhere to health and safety policies.   Demand was challenging in the second half of the \ufb01scal year as customers in many of our core manufacturing end  markets idled or reduced production capacity and facility utilization in response to the pandemic.  Underlying trends  remain subdued but are exhibiting stability into our \ufb01scal 2021 \ufb01rst quarter with organic sales down mid-teens year- over-year through early August.  We are continuing to monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and continue  to take appropriate cost actions.  Cost measures implemented to date include reduced discretionary spend, staff  realignments, temporary furloughs and pay reductions, suspension of 401(k) company match, and other expense  reduction actions.", "With more than 6,200 employees across North America, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, Applied Industrial  Technologies (\u201cApplied,\u201d the \u201cCompany,\u201d \u201cWe,\u201d \u201cUs\u201d or \u201cOur\u201d) is a leading value-added distributor and technical  solutions provider of industrial motion, \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, automation technologies, and related maintenance  supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve MRO (Maintenance, Repair  & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all industrial markets through our  multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  We have a long tradition of growth  dating back to 1923, the year our business was founded in Cleveland, Ohio.  At June 30, 2020, business was  conducted in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore from  approximately 580 facilities.", "Applied monitors several economic indices that have been key indicators for industrial economic activity in the United  States.  These include the Industrial Production (IP) and Manufacturing Capacity Utilization (MCU) indices published  by the Federal Reserve Board and the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) published by the Institute for Supply  Management (ISM).  Historically, our performance correlates well with the MCU, which measures productivity and  calculates a ratio of actual manufacturing output versus potential full capacity output.  When manufacturing plants  are running at a high rate of capacity, they tend to wear out machinery and require replacement parts.", "This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated \ufb01nancial statements for  the years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019.  For the comparison of the years ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, see the  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2019  Annual Report on Form 10-K.", "Our gross pro\ufb01t margin decreased to 28.9% in \ufb01scal 2020 compared to 29.0% in \ufb01scal 2019.  The gross margin was  negatively affected by 12 basis points for $3.9 million of non-routine expense recorded within cost of sales related to  inventory reserves for excess and obsolete inventory for certain locations that were closed during the year within the  U.S. operations of the Service Center Based Distribution segment.", "At June 30, 2020, we had a total of 580 operating facilities in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico,   Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, versus 600 at June 30, 2019.", "We evaluate the recoverability of our slow-moving and inactive inventories at least quarterly.  We estimate the  recoverable cost of such inventory by product type while considering factors such as its age, historic and current  demand trends, the physical condition of the inventory, as well as assumptions regarding future demand.  Our ability  to recover our cost for slow moving or obsolete inventory can be affected by such factors as general market  conditions, future customer demand and relationships with suppliers.  A signi\ufb01cant portion of the products we hold  in inventory have long shelf lives, are not highly susceptible to obsolescence.", "Important risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to the operations levels  of our customers and the economic factors that affect them; risks relating to the effects of the COVID-19  pandemic; changes in the prices for products and services relative to the cost of providing them; reduction  in supplier inventory purchase incentives; loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability,  changes in supplier distribution programs, inability of suppliers to perform, and transportation disruptions;  the cost of products and energy and other operating costs; changes in customer preferences for products  and services of the nature and brands sold by us; changes in customer procurement policies and practices;  competitive pressures; our reliance on information systems and risks relating to their proper functioning,  the security of those systems, and the data stored in or transmitted through them; the impact of economic  conditions on the collectability of trade receivables; reduced demand for our products in targeted markets  due to reasons including consolidation in customer industries; our ability to retain and attract quali\ufb01ed  sales and customer service personnel and other skilled executives, managers and professionals; our ability  to identify and complete acquisitions, integrate them effectively, and realize their anticipated bene\ufb01ts; the  variability, timing and nature of new business opportunities including acquisitions, alliances, customer  relationships, and supplier authorizations; the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in connection  with acquisitions; our ability to access capital markets as needed on reasonable terms; disruption of  operations at our headquarters or distribution centers; risks and uncertainties associated with our foreign  operations, including volatile economic conditions, political instability, cultural and legal differences, and  currency exchange \ufb02uctuations; the potential for goodwill and intangible asset impairment; changes in  accounting policies and practices; our ability to maintain effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting;  organizational changes within the Company; risks related to legal proceedings to which we are a party;  potentially adverse government regulation, legislation, or policies, both enacted and under consideration,  including with respect to federal tax policy, international trade, data privacy and security, and government  contracting; and the occurrence of extraordinary events (including prolonged labor disputes, power  outages, telecommunication outages, terrorist acts, public health emergency, earthquakes, extreme  weather events, other natural disasters, \ufb01res, \ufb02oods, and accidents).  Other factors and unanticipated  events could also adversely affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition or results of operations.", "We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United  States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting as of June 30, 2020, based on the criteria  established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of  the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 14, 2020, expressed an unquali\ufb01ed opinion on the Company's  internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting.", "Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the \u201cCompany\u201d or \u201cApplied\u201d) is a leading value-added  distributor and technical solutions provider of industrial motion, \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, automation technologies,  and related maintenance supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve  MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all  industrial markets through our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  Although  the Company does not generally manufacture the products it sells, it does assemble and repair certain products and  systems.", "Fiscal 2020 The decline in net sales in the third and fourth quarters of \ufb01scal 2020 is due to slowness in key end markets largely  attributable to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.", "There have not been any changes in internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting during the quarter ended June 30, 2020  that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over  \ufb01nancial reporting.  As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, a signi\ufb01cant portion of our workforce began working  remotely in March 2020.  These changes to the working environment did not have a material effect on our internal  controls over \ufb01nancial reporting during the most recent quarter.  We are continually monitoring and assessing the  COVID-19 pandemic on our internal controls to minimize the impact on their design and operating effectiveness.", "The Company\u2019s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting and for its  assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management\u2019s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the  Company\u2019s internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting based on our audit.  We are a public accounting \ufb01rm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting was  maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over \ufb01nancial  reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered  necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "After reevaluating the Old Peer Group this year, Applied elected to replace  it with a published index because we believe the Dow Jones US Industrial  Suppliers Index provides a meaningful comparison of total shareholder  return performance and will be more convenient to administer.", "convenience, and expertise. in virtually all industrial markets through our  knowledge serve MRO and OEM end users  value-added distributor and technical solutions", "Many have used the word unprecedented to describe  recent events and the subsequent business environment we have experienced.", "Here at Applied\u00ae, the word unwavering stands out,  as it characterizes the dedication of our associates during these challenging times brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic.", "While COVID has reset the stage in many ways, we know how we respond determines our performance\u2026 and success.", "Across our  business, we have implemented operational procedures and followed guidelines from the CDC and other health organizations.", "Through  social distancing, virtual meetings and sales calls, distance learning and more, we have remained productive and have learned many best  practices along the way \u2013 all in an effort to serve our customers and keep industry running.", "I am incredibly proud of our teamwork and innovation which allow us to proactively and effectively respond across many industries  where we play a key role in keeping the industrial infrastructure running productively.", "Our track record of operational discipline  while preserving our capability to serve is once again apparent in this environment.", "This was highlighted in fiscal 2020 as we  controlled costs and margins, generated record cash, and enhanced our balance sheet despite the softer demand environment.", "We understand our requirements and know how to manage through any part of the cycle.", "More than ever before, our comprehensive portfolio of products and services \u2013 combined with our specialized  expertise and know-how \u2013 is bridging today\u2019s challenges with tomorrow\u2019s opportunities.", "From the onset of the pandemic, we were classified as  an essential business supporting the important industrial  infrastructure with critical products and services.", "Our  facilities remained open and operational through the  various shelter-in-place and stay-at-home orders, while  adhering to health and safety protocols.", "With more  than 50% of our service center network demand tied  to break-fix requirements, customers depend on us  for critical parts, services and solutions that sustain  operations and support vital areas of the economy.  For some customers, a slowdown prompts incremental  maintenance on their direct production infrastructure  and systems, and we remain a valued partner in  supporting their engineering and maintenance teams in  addressing related needs.", "Today\u2019s environment  is also prompting us to identify new opportunities  through our specialty flow control capabilities, as  well as complementary consumables and emerging  automation technologies.", "We have proven to be  valuable on multiple fronts.", "Targeted investments in recent years have positioned Applied as the leading distributor of technical solutions  across the industrial supply chain.", "This has differentiated  our value proposition and will continue to be ever  more relevant as the industrial economy starts its next  phase of growth with increasing supply chain and  technical requirements.", "As industrial equipment and  facility infrastructure continues to ramp, it will increase  critical break-fix demand across our network, where  we can respond with local expertise and the most  comprehensive suite of motion control technologies   and services within our industry\u2026 and in our   Company\u2019s history.", "Additionally, behaviors reshaped by the pandemic  will reinforce secular growth opportunities tied  to our technical service and engineered solutions  portfolio, which has become a greater portion of  our business in recent years.", "In particular, we believe  customers will increasingly focus on addressing  skilled labor constraints, plant efficiency, and  regulatory requirements, while considerations", "As a value-added business partner, we continue to  look for new and innovative ways to work with our  customers and suppliers to maximize productivity  and investment returns.", "Emerging technologies have  demonstrated encouraging capabilities in helping  reduce downtime and MRO costs through a network  of sensors, smart devices and machine learning  algorithms.", "This data and digitization movement \u2013  often referred to as the Industrial Internet of Things  (IIoT) \u2013 has been steadily building momentum  throughout the industrial and manufacturing sectors.  Through the Applied IoT ConnectTM Program, we  continue to develop the best ways to leverage these offerings and implement solutions for  connected operations.", "We are also leveraging technology and data internally for continuous improvement and team collaboration  on staying \u201cclose\u201d to our customers and executing  business during these times.", "Our Applied Maintenance  Supplies & SolutionsSM team has introduced virtual  ordering by integrating a video conferencing app  to scan product bins and place orders, providing a  contactless and touchless ordering option.", "Furthermore,  we are strengthening our Applied.com channel and  digital sales capabilities through chat assistance  and engagement initiatives, further enhancing our  customers\u2019 procurement experience and driving new  growth opportunities.", "Across our organization, we have many significant and exciting near-term opportunities to productively and  effectively impact our customers and the important  industrial infrastructure.", "A focus on living the Applied    Core Values is reinforced in this business climate, further  supporting our efforts and helping to generate success  for our customers and Applied.", "These values continue to influence how we engage new  end users, fellow associates, suppliers, communities,  and other important stakeholders.", "We have received  letters from customers across our globally-served  industries acknowledging our support and the value we  provide.", "Additionally, we continue  to have an opportunity \u2013 and collective responsibility \u2013 to  further develop plans, actions and results that promote  fair, honest and ethical practices across our business.  We are proud to note that we have been ranked  among the top 15 of Ohio Fortune 1000 companies  for Diversity in Corporate Governance, according to a  recent report from the National Diversity Council.", "We Are AppliedSM, and we have a strong foundation,  expanding capabilities and outstanding potential as the  leading technical products, services and solutions provider  to industrial markets.", "As we enter fiscal 2021, we see  significant opportunity as we leverage our industry position  to effectively adapt to the evolving industrial landscape, and  invest in new and emerging growth opportunities.", "While we are facing some challenges as the industrial economy transitions from a generational pandemic, we  have a remarkably strong business model that generates  cash and adapts well throughout the cycle, as we have  demonstrated.", "Our strategy is deeply focused on the  opportunities ahead of us and moving the Company  toward its long-term financial goals for significant earnings  growth and value creation in the coming years.", "With our  100-year anniversary approaching, I firmly believe our best  days are ahead!", "We are a leading distributor and solutions provider of industrial motion, power, and control technologies.  Through  our comprehensive network of approximately 6,200 associates and 580 facilities including service center, \ufb02uid  power, \ufb02ow control, and automation operations, as well as repair shops and distribution centers, we offer a selection  of more than 7 million stock keeping units with a focus on industrial bearings, power transmission products, \ufb02uid  power components and systems, specialty \ufb02ow control solutions, and robotics and machinery automation.  We  market our products with a set of service solutions including inventory management, engineering, design, repair, and  systems integration, as well as customized mechanical, fabricated rubber, and shop services.", "Our customers use our  products and services for both MRO (maintenance, repair, and operating) and OEM (original equipment  manufacturing) applications across a variety of end markets primarily in North America, as well as Australia, New  Zealand, and Singapore.  Headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, Applied and its predecessor companies have engaged in  business since 1923.", "VALUE PROPOSITION We serve a segment of the industrial distribution market that requires technical expertise and service given that our  products and solutions are directly tied to industrial companies\u2019 production and ef\ufb01ciency initiatives.  As such, we  believe we are integral to our customers\u2019 supply chains considering the critical nature and direct exposure our  solutions have on our customers\u2019 core production equipment and plant capabilities.  While we compete with other  distributors and service providers offering products and solutions addressing this area of the industrial supply chain,  we believe our industry position and value proposition bene\ufb01ts from relative advantages tied to the following key  attributes:", "We focus on helping customers minimize their production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce  overall procurement and maintenance costs.  A primary focus for our service center network is responding to a  critical \u201cbreak-\ufb01x\u201d situation, which requires knowledge of a customer\u2019s facility, localized inventory, timely delivery  capabilities, service execution, and accountability.  In addition, our \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, and automation  operations design, engineer, and integrate solutions focused on making a customer\u2019s operations and equipment  more productive, cost-ef\ufb01cient, and automated.  We believe our products and solutions are increasingly critical", "within the industrial supply chain given an aging and tighter customer labor force, more sophisticated production  equipment and processes, a greater focus on plant \ufb02oor optimization, and compliance and regulatory requirements.", "INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION We primarily compete within North America which we believe offers signi\ufb01cant growth potential given our industry  position, established distribution and sales network, market fragmentation, and customer technical requirements, as  well as opportunities tied to automation and smart technologies.  Growth within our industry is in\ufb02uenced by  broader industrial production and capacity utilization, as well as in\ufb02ation, labor dynamics, capital spending,  geopolitical events, factory optimization initiatives, changes in industrial equipment technologies, and supply chain  requirements.", "Our principal competitors are specialist and general line distributors of bearings, power transmission products, \ufb02uid  power components and systems, \ufb02ow control solutions, industrial rubber products, and linear motion components,  and to a lesser extent providers of tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These  competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational operations.  We also compete with original  equipment manufacturers and integrators.  The identity and number of our competitors vary throughout the  geographic, industry, and product markets we serve.", "STRATEGIC GROWTH AND OPERATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES \u2022  Capture market share across our core service center network.  Our network of service centers located  close to industrial companies allows us to respond quickly and effectively to critical MRO situations involving  direct production infrastructure and industrial equipment.  We believe more sophisticated industrial production  processes, customer labor constraints, and increased manufacturing activity across North America could drive  greater demand for our products and services.  We continue to deploy initiatives to further enhance our  capabilities across our service center network and gain market share.  These include investments in analytics,  strategic account penetration, sales process optimization, talent development, and digital capabilities, as well as  fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded product and service platform across \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control,  automation, and consumables solutions.", "\u2022  Execute ongoing operational initiatives supporting margin pro\ufb01le.  We have a number of initiatives  focused on driving operational improvements throughout the organization.  Systems investments in recent  years including common ERP platforms are supporting opportunities in leveraging shared services, re\ufb01ning our  sales management process, and standardizing pricing and sourcing functions, while we continue to optimize  our shop and distribution network and analytics.  We also remain focused on achieving margin synergies across  our operations following expansion into \ufb02ow control and automation.  This includes enhanced pricing  functions, leveraging vendor procurement, freight savings, and re\ufb01ned cost management.  Combined with  growth in more pro\ufb01table areas of our business, we see ongoing opportunity to optimize our margin pro\ufb01le  and cash generation in coming years.", "\u2022  Pursue acquisitions to supplement growth and strengthen industry position.  We expect to pursue  additional acquisitions aligned with our growth strategy and long-term \ufb01nancial targets.  We view acquisitions", "\u2022  Leverage technical industry position in developing growth around emerging industrial technologies.   We believe we are positioned to capture emerging opportunities relating to automation and smart technologies  focused on optimizing and connecting customers\u2019 industrial supply chains.  Our position re\ufb02ects our technical  product focus, service capabilities, embedded customer relationships and knowledge across direct production  infrastructure and equipment, and existing supplier relationships.  Following our acquisition of Olympus  Controls in \ufb01scal 2020, we now offer products and solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and  distribution of motion control, machine vision, and robotic technologies.  We expect to continue to expand our  automation footprint and capabilities in coming years, as well as pursue opportunities tied to the Industrial  Internet of Things (IIoT).  We believe this market potential could be meaningful as technology continues to  converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end-markets.", "\u2022  Extend our leading \ufb02uid power and \ufb02ow control position as demand for comprehensive solutions  grows.  We provide innovative \ufb02uid power and \ufb02ow control solutions including systems design and  engineering, electronic control integration, software programing, valve actuation, compliance consulting,  fabrication and assembly, and dedicated service and repair.  Demand for these solutions is increasing across a  variety of industrial, off-highway mobile, technology, and process related applications given a greater focus on  power consumption, plant ef\ufb01ciency and automation, emissions control, remote monitoring, advancements in  machining, regulatory and compliance standards, and data analytics.  We believe our service and engineering  capabilities, shop network, and supplier relationships are key competitive advantages supporting our ability to  capture a greater share of this market growth opportunity in coming years.", "OPERATIONS Our distribution and sales network consists of approximately 460 locations in our Service Center Distribution  segment and 120 locations in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  This includes service centers, distribution  centers, and facilities tied to our \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, and automation operations.  Our service centers resemble  local inventory hubs located in close proximity to our customers and focused primarily on MRO related ful\ufb01llment  and service needs.  Our \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, and automation locations support technical and shop-oriented  services integral to the more specialized and integrated nature of the products and solutions they provide.  Other  operations and channels we market through include inventory management services for indirect consumable supplies  and digital solutions including our Applied.com website, electronic data interchange (EDI) and other electronic  interfaces with customers' technology platforms and plant maintenance systems.", "Our distribution centers provide daily service to our service centers, helping replenish inventories and shipping  products directly to customers where appropriate.  An ef\ufb01cient supply chain and timely delivery of our products is  vital to our value proposition particularly when customers require products for emergency repairs.  We utilize  dedicated third-party transportation providers, our own delivery vehicles, as well as surface and air common carrier  and courier services.  Customers may also pick up items at our service centers.  We maintain product inventory levels  at each service center tailored to the local market.  These inventories consist of standard items as well as other items  speci\ufb01c to local customer demand.", "Our operations are primarily based in the U.S. where 87% of our \ufb01scal 2020 sales were generated.  We also have  international operations, the largest of which is in Canada (8% of \ufb01scal 2020 sales) with the balance (5% of \ufb01scal  2020 sales) in Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.", "SUPPLIERS We are a leading distributor of products including bearings, power transmission products, engineered \ufb02uid power  components and systems, specialty \ufb02ow control solutions, machinery and robotics automation products, industrial  rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.", "These products are generally supplied to us by manufacturers whom we serve as a non-exclusive distributor.  The  suppliers also may provide us product training, as well as sales and marketing support.  Authorizations to represent  particular suppliers and product lines vary by geographic region, particularly for our \ufb02uid power and \ufb02ow control  businesses.  We believe our supplier relationships are generally good, and many have existed for decades.  The  disruption of relationships with certain suppliers, or the disruption of their operations, could adversely affect our  business.", "Our product suppliers typically con\ufb01ne their direct sales activities to large-volume transactions, mainly with large  original equipment manufacturers.  The suppliers generally do not sell maintenance and repair products directly to  the customer, but instead refer the customer to us or another distributor.", "MARKETS  We purchase from thousands of product manufacturers and resell the products to thousands of customers in a wide  variety of industries, including agriculture and food processing, cement, chemicals and petrochemicals, fabricated  metals, forest products, industrial machinery and equipment, mining, oil and gas, primary metals, transportation, and  utilities, as well as to government entities.  Customers range from very large businesses, with which we may have  multiple-location relationships, to very small ones.  We are not signi\ufb01cantly dependent on a single customer or group  of customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole, and no single  customer accounts for more than 3% of our \ufb01scal 2020 sales.", "SERVICES We believe part of our success, differentiation, and competitive advantage is attributable to the comprehensive set of  services and solutions we provide, which we view as critical given the technical nature and application of our core  product offering of motion, power, control, and automation technologies.  The foundation of our service capabilities  lies with our technically oriented associate team, which includes engineers, industry segment specialists, mechanics,  technicians, \ufb02uid power specialists, as well as our systems, shop network, and supplier relationships.  We believe  knowledge and service capabilities relating to our core product offering are increasingly needed across our customer  base given skilled labor constraints within their operations, maintenance requirements, and more sophisticated plant  equipment and processes.  Our services and solutions help customers minimize production downtime, improve", "as an important growth consideration given high fragmentation, greater operational and technical  requirements, and supplier authorizations within the markets we serve.  We believe our sourcing strategy, cash  generation capabilities, and operational discipline are key to our acquisition success.  Over the near to  intermediate-term, our acquisition priorities are focused on continuing to expand our current offerings, while  further enhancing our technical differentiation and value-added service capabilities.", "Fluid Power & Flow Control.  Our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment includes our operations that specialize in  distributing, engineering, designing, integrating, and repairing hydraulic and pneumatic \ufb02uid power technologies,  and engineered \ufb02ow control products and services.  We believe we are the largest distributor and solutions provider  of \ufb02uid power and industrial \ufb02ow control products and solutions in the U.S.  The segment also includes our  operations that focus on robotic and machinery automation solutions following the acquisition of Olympus Controls  in August 2019.", "Our specialty \ufb02ow control operations encompass the operations of our \ufb01scal 2018 acquisition of FCX Performance,  Inc., which provides highly engineered process \ufb02ow control products, solutions, and services.  Products include  pumps, valves, \ufb01ttings, hoses, process instrumentation, actuators, and \ufb01ltration supplies which are used to control  the \ufb02ow of liquids and gases in mission-critical industrial applications.  Our \ufb02ow control products and services are  focused on MRO related applications; OEMs; and engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) \ufb01rms across a  variety of industries including chemicals, steel, power, oil and gas, pulp and paper, pharmaceuticals, food and  beverage, and general industrials.  Similar to our \ufb02uid power operations, our \ufb02ow control offering includes technical  service capabilities such as \ufb02ow control systems integration, repair services, valve actuation, process instrumentation,  pipe and hose fabrication, and compliance consulting.", "machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs.  By providing high levels of service,  product and industry expertise, and technical support, while at the same time offering product breadth and  competitive pricing, we believe we develop stronger, longer-lasting, and more pro\ufb01table customer relationships.  See  the Reportable Segments section below for more detail on the various service solutions we provide to customers.", "REPORTABLE SEGMENTS We report results of operations in two segments: 1) Service Center Based Distribution, and 2) Fluid Power & Flow  Control.  In \ufb01scal 2020, our Service Center Based Distribution segment represented 69% of our total sales, while our  Fluid Power & Flow Control segment represented 31% of our total sales.", "Service Center Based Distribution.  Our Service Center Based Distribution segment includes our legacy MRO  distribution operations across North America, Australia, and New Zealand.  This business operates through local  service centers and distribution centers with a focus on providing products and services addressing the maintenance  and repair of motion control infrastructure and production equipment.  Products primarily include industrial bearings,  motors, belting, drives, couplings, pumps, linear motion products, hydraulic and pneumatic components, \ufb01ltration  supplies, and hoses, as well as other related supplies for general operational needs of customers\u2019 machinery and  equipment.", "WORKING CAPITAL Our working capital position is discussed in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.", "Our robotic and machinery automation operations encompass our \ufb01scal 2020 acquisition of Olympus Controls,  which provides solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and distribution of motion control, machine  vision, and robotic technologies for OEMs, machine builders, integrators, and other industrial and technology end  users.  Products and solutions are marketed across a variety of industries including technology, medical, life sciences,  logistics, and general industrial.  Olympus Controls helps customers develop, produce, and integrate machine  automation solutions using comprehensive technology and industry processes.", "BACKLOG AND SEASONALITY   Backlog orders are not material to our business as a whole, although they are a more important factor for our \ufb02uid  power and \ufb02ow control businesses.  Our business has exhibited minor seasonality.  In particular, sales per day during  the \ufb01rst half of our \ufb01scal year have historically been slightly lower than the second half due, in part, to the impact of  customer plant shutdowns, summer vacations and holidays.", "PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES, AND LICENSES  Customer recognition of our service marks and trade names, including Applied Industrial Technologies\u00ae, Applied\u00ae,  and AIT\u00ae, is an important contributing factor to our sales.  Patents and licenses are not of material importance to  our business.", "RAW MATERIALS AND GENERAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS   Our operations are dependent on general industrial and economic conditions.  We would be adversely affected by  the unavailability of raw materials to our suppliers, prolonged labor disputes experienced by suppliers or customers,  or by events or conditions that have an adverse effect on industrial activity generally in the markets we serve or on  key customer industries.", "In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could  materially affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the only  risks facing the Company.  Certain risks are identi\ufb01ed below in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion  and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.  Additional risks not currently known to us, risks that could apply broadly to issuers, or risks that we currently deem  immaterial, may also impact our business and operations.  Risks can also change over time.", "Our business depends heavily on the operating levels of our customers and the factors that affect them,  including general economic conditions.  The markets for our products and services are subject to conditions or  events that affect demand for goods and materials that our customers produce.  Consequently, demand for our  products and services has been and will continue to be in\ufb02uenced by most of the same factors that affect demand  for and production of customers' goods and materials.", "When customers or prospective customers reduce production levels because of lower demand, increased supply,  higher costs, tight credit conditions, unfavorable currency exchange rates, adverse trade policies, foreign  competition, other competitive disadvantage, offshoring of production, or other reasons, their need for our products  and services diminishes.  Selling prices and terms of sale come under pressure, adversely affecting the pro\ufb01tability  and the durability of customer relationships, and credit losses may increase.  Inventory management becomes more  dif\ufb01cult in times of economic uncertainty.  Volatile economic and credit conditions also make it more dif\ufb01cult for us,  as well as our customers and suppliers, to forecast and plan future business activities.", "The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto continue to impact  our results of operations and \ufb01nancial condition will depend on future developments, which are uncertain  and cannot be predicted.  The COVID-19 pandemic has created signi\ufb01cant volatility, uncertainty, and economic  disruption.  The extent to which the pandemic continues to impact our results of operations and \ufb01nancial condition  will depend on evolving factors that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the following: the duration,  spread, and severity of the pandemic in the countries in which we operate; responsive measures taken by  governmental authorities, businesses, and individuals; the effect on our customers and their demand for our  products and services; the effect on our suppliers and disruptions to the global supply chain; our ability to sell and  provide our products and services and otherwise operate effectively, including as a result of travel restrictions and  associates working from home; disruptions to our operations resulting from associate illness; restrictions or  disruptions to, or reduced availability of, transportation; customers\u2019 ability to pay for our services and products;  closures of our facilities or those of our customers or suppliers; the impact of reduced customer demand on  purchasing incentives we earn from suppliers; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating  conditions can resume.  The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have resulted and will result in lost or delayed sales  to us, and we have experienced business disruptions as we have modi\ufb01ed our business practices (including travel,  work locations, and cancellation of physical participation in meetings).  In addition, the pandemic\u2019s impact on the  economy may affect the proper functioning of \ufb01nancial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates,  product and energy costs, and interest rates.  Even after the pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience  adverse impacts to our business as a result of any economic recession or depression that has occurred or may occur  in the future.  The pandemic\u2019s effects may also amplify the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual  Report on Form 10-K, and may continue to materially and adversely affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, results of  operations, and/or stock price.", "Our business could be adversely affected if we do not successfully execute our strategies to grow sales and  earnings.  We have numerous strategies and initiatives to grow sales, leveraging the breadth of our product  offering, supplier relationships, and value-added technical capabilities to differentiate us and improve our  competitive position.  We also continually seek to enhance gross margins, manage costs, and otherwise improve  earnings.  Many of our activities target improvements to the consistency of our operating practices across our  hundreds of locations.", "Consolidation in our customers' and suppliers' industries could adversely affect our business and \ufb01nancial  results.  Consolidation continues among our product suppliers and customers.  As customer industries consolidate or  customers otherwise aggregate their purchasing power, a greater proportion of our sales could be derived from  large volume contracts, which could adversely impact margins.  Consolidation among customers can trigger changes  in their purchasing strategies, potentially shifting blocks of business among competing distributors and contributing  to volatility in our sales and pressure on prices.  Similarly, continued consolidation among our suppliers could reduce  our ability to negotiate favorable pricing and other commercial terms for our inventory purchases.  There can be no  assurance we will be able to take advantage of consolidation trends.", "Loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, or changes in distribution programs could  adversely affect our sales and earnings.  Our business depends on maintaining an immediately available supply of  various products to meet customer demand.  Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding,  but are terminable by either party.  The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability  of their products, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and have a material adverse effect on our business.  Supply interruptions could arise from raw materials shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity or utilization to  meet demand, \ufb01nancial problems or insolvency, trade issues, labor disputes, public health emergencies, weather  conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control.", "In addition, as a distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors  generally, or us in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts us.", "An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings.  We operate in a highly competitive industry.  The  industry remains fragmented, but is consolidating.  Our principal competitors are specialist and general line  distributors of bearings, power transmission products, \ufb02uid power components and systems, \ufb02ow control solutions,  automation technologies, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, oil\ufb01eld  supplies, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and", "multinational operations, and can include catalog and e-commerce companies.  Competition is largely focused in the  local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities, and price.  Existing competitors have, and future competitors may have, greater \ufb01nancial or other resources than we do,  broader or more appealing product or service offerings, greater market presence, stronger relationships with key  suppliers or customers, or better name recognition.  If existing or future competitors seek to gain or to retain market  share by aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, or otherwise through competitive advantage, our sales and  pro\ufb01tability could be adversely affected.  Our success will also be affected by our ability to continue to provide  competitive offerings as customer preferences or demands evolve, for example with respect to our product and  services portfolio or our e-commerce and inventory management solutions.  Technological evolution or other factors  can render product offerings obsolete, potentially impairing our competitive position and our inventory values.", "Trade policies can have an adverse impact on industries we sell into, potentially negatively affecting our  net sales and pro\ufb01ts.  Changes to trade policies or agreements, including the recently enacted United States- Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), can disrupt geographic and industry demand trends.  While Applied primarily  serves markets in the United States, a signi\ufb01cant portion of our domestic customer base exports or serves exporters.  U.S. government-imposed tariffs or taxes that penalize imports can be met with countermeasures by foreign  governments, or can otherwise impact industrial production, and it becomes dif\ufb01cult to determine what the net  effect of such actions is on Applied\u2019s net sales and pro\ufb01ts.  It is possible that such changes could adversely affect our  \ufb01nancial results.", "Changes in customer or product mix and downward pressure on sales prices could cause our gross pro\ufb01t  percentage to \ufb02uctuate or decline.  Because we serve thousands of customers in many end markets, and offer  millions of products, with varying pro\ufb01tability levels, changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross  pro\ufb01t percentage to \ufb02uctuate or decline.  Downward pressure on sales prices could also cause our gross pro\ufb01t  percentage to \ufb02uctuate or decline.  We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of de\ufb02ation,  pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition.", "Our ability to transact business is highly reliant on information systems.  A disruption or security breach  could materially affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, or results of operation.  We depend on information  systems to, among other things, process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections,  purchase products, manage accounts payable processes, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost- effective operations, provide superior service to customers, conduct business communications, and compile \ufb01nancial  results.  A serious, prolonged disruption of our information systems, due to man-made or natural causes, including  power or telecommunications outage, or breach in security, could materially impair fundamental business processes  and increase expenses, decrease sales, or otherwise reduce earnings.", "Because of our reliance on information systems, we are vulnerable to the growing threat of damage or intrusion  from computer viruses or other cyber-attacks, including ransomware and business e-mail compromise, on our  systems.  Despite precautions taken to prevent or mitigate the risks of such incidents, breaches of our systems could  not only cause business disruption, but could also result in the theft of funds, the theft, loss, or disclosure of", "In recent years, we replaced multiple legacy information system applications with newer software platforms, to  enhance our business information and transaction systems to support future growth.  We continue with and  consider additional enterprise resource planning system conversions, on a smaller scale, in discrete business  operations.  Despite extensive planning, we could experience disruptions related to the implementation because of  the projects' complexity.  The potential adverse consequences could include delays, loss of information, diminished  management reporting capabilities, damage to our ability to process transactions timely, harm to our control  environment, diminished employee productivity, and unanticipated increases in costs.  Further, our ability to achieve  anticipated operational bene\ufb01ts from new platforms is not assured.", "Acquisitions are a key component of our anticipated growth.  We may not be able to identify or to  complete future acquisitions, to integrate them effectively into our operations, or to realize their  anticipated bene\ufb01ts.  Many industries we serve are mature.  As a result, acquisitions of businesses have been  important to our growth.  While we wish to continue to acquire businesses, we may not be able to identify and to  negotiate suitable acquisitions, to obtain \ufb01nancing for them on satisfactory terms, or otherwise to complete  acquisitions.  In addition, existing and future competitors, and private equity \ufb01rms, increasingly compete with us for  acquisitions, which can increase prices and reduce the number of suitable opportunities; the acquisitions they make  can also adversely impact our market position.", "We seek acquisition opportunities that complement and expand our operations.  However, substantial costs, delays,  or other dif\ufb01culties related to integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business or \ufb01nancial results.  For  example, we could face signi\ufb01cant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating information systems, personnel,  and operations, and implementing procedures and controls in a timely and ef\ufb01cient manner.", "Our business depends on our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain quali\ufb01ed employees.  Our  success depends on hiring, developing, motivating, and retaining key employees, including executive, managerial,  sales, professional, and other personnel.  We may have dif\ufb01culty identifying and hiring quali\ufb01ed personnel.  In  addition, we may have dif\ufb01culty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against  us.  With respect to sales and customer service positions in particular, we greatly bene\ufb01t from having employees who  are familiar with the products and services we sell, and their applications, as well as with our customer and supplier  relationships.  The loss of key employees or our failure to attract and retain other quali\ufb01ed workers could disrupt or  adversely affect our business.  In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased competition", "An interruption of operations at our headquarters or distribution centers, or in our means of transporting  product, could adversely impact our business.  Our business depends on maintaining operating activity at our  headquarters and distribution centers, and being able to receive and deliver product in a timely manner.  A serious,  prolonged interruption due to power or telecommunications outage, security incident, terrorist attack, public health  emergency, earthquake, extreme weather events, other natural disasters, \ufb01re, \ufb02ood, transportation disruption, or  other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and \ufb01nancial results.", "Our operations outside the United States increase our exposure to global economic and political conditions  and currency exchange volatility.  Foreign operations contributed 13% of our sales in 2020.  This presence  outside the U.S. increases risks associated with exposure to more volatile economic conditions, political instability,  cultural and legal differences in conducting business (including corrupt practices), economic and trade policy actions,  and currency exchange \ufb02uctuations.", "We believe having a local presence is important to serving our customers, so we maintain service centers and other  operations in local markets throughout the countries in which we operate.  At June 30, 2020, we owned real  properties at 117 locations and leased 433 locations.  Certain properties house more than one operation.", "The properties in Baldwinsville, Newark, Midland, and Stafford are used in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Fontana and Longview properties are used in both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and the Fluid  Power & Flow Control segment.  The remaining properties are used in the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.", "We consider our properties generally suf\ufb01cient to meet our requirements for of\ufb01ce space and inventory stocking.", "When opening new operations, we have tended to lease rather than purchase real property.  We do not consider  any service center, distribution center, or shop property to be material, because we believe that, if it becomes  necessary or desirable to relocate an operation, other suitable property could be found.", "In addition to operating locations, we own or lease certain properties which in the aggregate are not material and  are either for sale, lease, or sublease to third parties due to a relocation or closing.  We also may lease or sublease to  others unused portions of buildings.", "During the current \ufb01scal year, the COVID-19 pandemic signi\ufb01cantly impacted the business.  We are classi\ufb01ed as  critical infrastructure and our facilities remain open and operational as they adhere to health and safety policies.   Demand was challenging in the second half of the \ufb01scal year as customers in many of our core manufacturing end  markets idled or reduced production capacity and facility utilization in response to the pandemic.  Underlying trends  remain subdued but are exhibiting stability into our \ufb01scal 2021 \ufb01rst quarter with organic sales down mid-teens year- over-year through early August.  We are continuing to monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and continue  to take appropriate cost actions.  Cost measures implemented to date include reduced discretionary spend, staff  realignments, temporary furloughs and pay reductions, suspension of 401(k) company match, and other expense  reduction actions.", "With more than 6,200 employees across North America, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, Applied Industrial  Technologies (\u201cApplied,\u201d the \u201cCompany,\u201d \u201cWe,\u201d \u201cUs\u201d or \u201cOur\u201d) is a leading value-added distributor and technical  solutions provider of industrial motion, \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, automation technologies, and related maintenance  supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve MRO (Maintenance, Repair  & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all industrial markets through our  multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  We have a long tradition of growth  dating back to 1923, the year our business was founded in Cleveland, Ohio.  At June 30, 2020, business was  conducted in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore from  approximately 580 facilities.", "Applied monitors several economic indices that have been key indicators for industrial economic activity in the United  States.  These include the Industrial Production (IP) and Manufacturing Capacity Utilization (MCU) indices published  by the Federal Reserve Board and the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) published by the Institute for Supply  Management (ISM).  Historically, our performance correlates well with the MCU, which measures productivity and  calculates a ratio of actual manufacturing output versus potential full capacity output.  When manufacturing plants  are running at a high rate of capacity, they tend to wear out machinery and require replacement parts.", "This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated \ufb01nancial statements for  the years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019.  For the comparison of the years ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, see the  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2019  Annual Report on Form 10-K.", "Our gross pro\ufb01t margin decreased to 28.9% in \ufb01scal 2020 compared to 29.0% in \ufb01scal 2019.  The gross margin was  negatively affected by 12 basis points for $3.9 million of non-routine expense recorded within cost of sales related to  inventory reserves for excess and obsolete inventory for certain locations that were closed during the year within the  U.S. operations of the Service Center Based Distribution segment.", "At June 30, 2020, we had a total of 580 operating facilities in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico,   Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, versus 600 at June 30, 2019.", "We evaluate the recoverability of our slow-moving and inactive inventories at least quarterly.  We estimate the  recoverable cost of such inventory by product type while considering factors such as its age, historic and current  demand trends, the physical condition of the inventory, as well as assumptions regarding future demand.  Our ability  to recover our cost for slow moving or obsolete inventory can be affected by such factors as general market  conditions, future customer demand and relationships with suppliers.  A signi\ufb01cant portion of the products we hold  in inventory have long shelf lives, are not highly susceptible to obsolescence.", "Important risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to the operations levels  of our customers and the economic factors that affect them; risks relating to the effects of the COVID-19  pandemic; changes in the prices for products and services relative to the cost of providing them; reduction  in supplier inventory purchase incentives; loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability,  changes in supplier distribution programs, inability of suppliers to perform, and transportation disruptions;  the cost of products and energy and other operating costs; changes in customer preferences for products  and services of the nature and brands sold by us; changes in customer procurement policies and practices;  competitive pressures; our reliance on information systems and risks relating to their proper functioning,  the security of those systems, and the data stored in or transmitted through them; the impact of economic  conditions on the collectability of trade receivables; reduced demand for our products in targeted markets  due to reasons including consolidation in customer industries; our ability to retain and attract quali\ufb01ed  sales and customer service personnel and other skilled executives, managers and professionals; our ability  to identify and complete acquisitions, integrate them effectively, and realize their anticipated bene\ufb01ts; the  variability, timing and nature of new business opportunities including acquisitions, alliances, customer  relationships, and supplier authorizations; the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in connection  with acquisitions; our ability to access capital markets as needed on reasonable terms; disruption of  operations at our headquarters or distribution centers; risks and uncertainties associated with our foreign  operations, including volatile economic conditions, political instability, cultural and legal differences, and  currency exchange \ufb02uctuations; the potential for goodwill and intangible asset impairment; changes in  accounting policies and practices; our ability to maintain effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting;  organizational changes within the Company; risks related to legal proceedings to which we are a party;  potentially adverse government regulation, legislation, or policies, both enacted and under consideration,  including with respect to federal tax policy, international trade, data privacy and security, and government  contracting; and the occurrence of extraordinary events (including prolonged labor disputes, power  outages, telecommunication outages, terrorist acts, public health emergency, earthquakes, extreme  weather events, other natural disasters, \ufb01res, \ufb02oods, and accidents).  Other factors and unanticipated  events could also adversely affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition or results of operations.", "We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United  States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting as of June 30, 2020, based on the criteria  established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of  the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 14, 2020, expressed an unquali\ufb01ed opinion on the Company's  internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting.", "Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the \u201cCompany\u201d or \u201cApplied\u201d) is a leading value-added  distributor and technical solutions provider of industrial motion, \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, automation technologies,  and related maintenance supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve  MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all  industrial markets through our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  Although  the Company does not generally manufacture the products it sells, it does assemble and repair certain products and  systems.", "Fiscal 2020 The decline in net sales in the third and fourth quarters of \ufb01scal 2020 is due to slowness in key end markets largely  attributable to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.", "There have not been any changes in internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting during the quarter ended June 30, 2020  that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over  \ufb01nancial reporting.  As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, a signi\ufb01cant portion of our workforce began working  remotely in March 2020.  These changes to the working environment did not have a material effect on our internal  controls over \ufb01nancial reporting during the most recent quarter.  We are continually monitoring and assessing the  COVID-19 pandemic on our internal controls to minimize the impact on their design and operating effectiveness.", "The Company\u2019s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting and for its  assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management\u2019s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the  Company\u2019s internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting based on our audit.  We are a public accounting \ufb01rm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting was  maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over \ufb01nancial  reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered  necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "After reevaluating the Old Peer Group this year, Applied elected to replace  it with a published index because we believe the Dow Jones US Industrial  Suppliers Index provides a meaningful comparison of total shareholder  return performance and will be more convenient to administer.", "convenience, and expertise. in virtually all industrial markets through our  knowledge serve MRO and OEM end users  value-added distributor and technical solutions", "Many have used the word unprecedented to describe  recent events and the subsequent business environment we have experienced.", "Here at Applied\u00ae, the word unwavering stands out,  as it characterizes the dedication of our associates during these challenging times brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic.", "While COVID has reset the stage in many ways, we know how we respond determines our performance\u2026 and success.", "Across our  business, we have implemented operational procedures and followed guidelines from the CDC and other health organizations.", "Through  social distancing, virtual meetings and sales calls, distance learning and more, we have remained productive and have learned many best  practices along the way \u2013 all in an effort to serve our customers and keep industry running.", "I am incredibly proud of our teamwork and innovation which allow us to proactively and effectively respond across many industries  where we play a key role in keeping the industrial infrastructure running productively.", "Our track record of operational discipline  while preserving our capability to serve is once again apparent in this environment.", "This was highlighted in fiscal 2020 as we  controlled costs and margins, generated record cash, and enhanced our balance sheet despite the softer demand environment.", "We understand our requirements and know how to manage through any part of the cycle.", "More than ever before, our comprehensive portfolio of products and services \u2013 combined with our specialized  expertise and know-how \u2013 is bridging today\u2019s challenges with tomorrow\u2019s opportunities.", "From the onset of the pandemic, we were classified as  an essential business supporting the important industrial  infrastructure with critical products and services.", "Our  facilities remained open and operational through the  various shelter-in-place and stay-at-home orders, while  adhering to health and safety protocols.", "With more  than 50% of our service center network demand tied  to break-fix requirements, customers depend on us  for critical parts, services and solutions that sustain  operations and support vital areas of the economy.  For some customers, a slowdown prompts incremental  maintenance on their direct production infrastructure  and systems, and we remain a valued partner in  supporting their engineering and maintenance teams in  addressing related needs.", "Today\u2019s environment  is also prompting us to identify new opportunities  through our specialty flow control capabilities, as  well as complementary consumables and emerging  automation technologies.", "We have proven to be  valuable on multiple fronts.", "Targeted investments in recent years have positioned Applied as the leading distributor of technical solutions  across the industrial supply chain.", "This has differentiated  our value proposition and will continue to be ever  more relevant as the industrial economy starts its next  phase of growth with increasing supply chain and  technical requirements.", "As industrial equipment and  facility infrastructure continues to ramp, it will increase  critical break-fix demand across our network, where  we can respond with local expertise and the most  comprehensive suite of motion control technologies   and services within our industry\u2026 and in our   Company\u2019s history.", "Additionally, behaviors reshaped by the pandemic  will reinforce secular growth opportunities tied  to our technical service and engineered solutions  portfolio, which has become a greater portion of  our business in recent years.", "In particular, we believe  customers will increasingly focus on addressing  skilled labor constraints, plant efficiency, and  regulatory requirements, while considerations", "As a value-added business partner, we continue to  look for new and innovative ways to work with our  customers and suppliers to maximize productivity  and investment returns.", "Emerging technologies have  demonstrated encouraging capabilities in helping  reduce downtime and MRO costs through a network  of sensors, smart devices and machine learning  algorithms.", "This data and digitization movement \u2013  often referred to as the Industrial Internet of Things  (IIoT) \u2013 has been steadily building momentum  throughout the industrial and manufacturing sectors.  Through the Applied IoT ConnectTM Program, we  continue to develop the best ways to leverage these offerings and implement solutions for  connected operations.", "We are also leveraging technology and data internally for continuous improvement and team collaboration  on staying \u201cclose\u201d to our customers and executing  business during these times.", "Our Applied Maintenance  Supplies & SolutionsSM team has introduced virtual  ordering by integrating a video conferencing app  to scan product bins and place orders, providing a  contactless and touchless ordering option.", "Furthermore,  we are strengthening our Applied.com channel and  digital sales capabilities through chat assistance  and engagement initiatives, further enhancing our  customers\u2019 procurement experience and driving new  growth opportunities.", "Across our organization, we have many significant and exciting near-term opportunities to productively and  effectively impact our customers and the important  industrial infrastructure.", "A focus on living the Applied    Core Values is reinforced in this business climate, further  supporting our efforts and helping to generate success  for our customers and Applied.", "These values continue to influence how we engage new  end users, fellow associates, suppliers, communities,  and other important stakeholders.", "We have received  letters from customers across our globally-served  industries acknowledging our support and the value we  provide.", "Additionally, we continue  to have an opportunity \u2013 and collective responsibility \u2013 to  further develop plans, actions and results that promote  fair, honest and ethical practices across our business.  We are proud to note that we have been ranked  among the top 15 of Ohio Fortune 1000 companies  for Diversity in Corporate Governance, according to a  recent report from the National Diversity Council.", "We Are AppliedSM, and we have a strong foundation,  expanding capabilities and outstanding potential as the  leading technical products, services and solutions provider  to industrial markets.", "As we enter fiscal 2021, we see  significant opportunity as we leverage our industry position  to effectively adapt to the evolving industrial landscape, and  invest in new and emerging growth opportunities.", "While we are facing some challenges as the industrial economy transitions from a generational pandemic, we  have a remarkably strong business model that generates  cash and adapts well throughout the cycle, as we have  demonstrated.", "Our strategy is deeply focused on the  opportunities ahead of us and moving the Company  toward its long-term financial goals for significant earnings  growth and value creation in the coming years.", "With our  100-year anniversary approaching, I firmly believe our best  days are ahead!", "We are a leading distributor and solutions provider of industrial motion, power, and control technologies.  Through  our comprehensive network of approximately 6,200 associates and 580 facilities including service center, \ufb02uid  power, \ufb02ow control, and automation operations, as well as repair shops and distribution centers, we offer a selection  of more than 7 million stock keeping units with a focus on industrial bearings, power transmission products, \ufb02uid  power components and systems, specialty \ufb02ow control solutions, and robotics and machinery automation.  We  market our products with a set of service solutions including inventory management, engineering, design, repair, and  systems integration, as well as customized mechanical, fabricated rubber, and shop services.", "Our customers use our  products and services for both MRO (maintenance, repair, and operating) and OEM (original equipment  manufacturing) applications across a variety of end markets primarily in North America, as well as Australia, New  Zealand, and Singapore.  Headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, Applied and its predecessor companies have engaged in  business since 1923.", "VALUE PROPOSITION We serve a segment of the industrial distribution market that requires technical expertise and service given that our  products and solutions are directly tied to industrial companies\u2019 production and ef\ufb01ciency initiatives.  As such, we  believe we are integral to our customers\u2019 supply chains considering the critical nature and direct exposure our  solutions have on our customers\u2019 core production equipment and plant capabilities.  While we compete with other  distributors and service providers offering products and solutions addressing this area of the industrial supply chain,  we believe our industry position and value proposition bene\ufb01ts from relative advantages tied to the following key  attributes:", "We focus on helping customers minimize their production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce  overall procurement and maintenance costs.  A primary focus for our service center network is responding to a  critical \u201cbreak-\ufb01x\u201d situation, which requires knowledge of a customer\u2019s facility, localized inventory, timely delivery  capabilities, service execution, and accountability.  In addition, our \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, and automation  operations design, engineer, and integrate solutions focused on making a customer\u2019s operations and equipment  more productive, cost-ef\ufb01cient, and automated.  We believe our products and solutions are increasingly critical", "within the industrial supply chain given an aging and tighter customer labor force, more sophisticated production  equipment and processes, a greater focus on plant \ufb02oor optimization, and compliance and regulatory requirements.", "INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION We primarily compete within North America which we believe offers signi\ufb01cant growth potential given our industry  position, established distribution and sales network, market fragmentation, and customer technical requirements, as  well as opportunities tied to automation and smart technologies.  Growth within our industry is in\ufb02uenced by  broader industrial production and capacity utilization, as well as in\ufb02ation, labor dynamics, capital spending,  geopolitical events, factory optimization initiatives, changes in industrial equipment technologies, and supply chain  requirements.", "Our principal competitors are specialist and general line distributors of bearings, power transmission products, \ufb02uid  power components and systems, \ufb02ow control solutions, industrial rubber products, and linear motion components,  and to a lesser extent providers of tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These  competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational operations.  We also compete with original  equipment manufacturers and integrators.  The identity and number of our competitors vary throughout the  geographic, industry, and product markets we serve.", "STRATEGIC GROWTH AND OPERATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES \u2022  Capture market share across our core service center network.  Our network of service centers located  close to industrial companies allows us to respond quickly and effectively to critical MRO situations involving  direct production infrastructure and industrial equipment.  We believe more sophisticated industrial production  processes, customer labor constraints, and increased manufacturing activity across North America could drive  greater demand for our products and services.  We continue to deploy initiatives to further enhance our  capabilities across our service center network and gain market share.  These include investments in analytics,  strategic account penetration, sales process optimization, talent development, and digital capabilities, as well as  fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded product and service platform across \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control,  automation, and consumables solutions.", "\u2022  Execute ongoing operational initiatives supporting margin pro\ufb01le.  We have a number of initiatives  focused on driving operational improvements throughout the organization.  Systems investments in recent  years including common ERP platforms are supporting opportunities in leveraging shared services, re\ufb01ning our  sales management process, and standardizing pricing and sourcing functions, while we continue to optimize  our shop and distribution network and analytics.  We also remain focused on achieving margin synergies across  our operations following expansion into \ufb02ow control and automation.  This includes enhanced pricing  functions, leveraging vendor procurement, freight savings, and re\ufb01ned cost management.  Combined with  growth in more pro\ufb01table areas of our business, we see ongoing opportunity to optimize our margin pro\ufb01le  and cash generation in coming years.", "\u2022  Pursue acquisitions to supplement growth and strengthen industry position.  We expect to pursue  additional acquisitions aligned with our growth strategy and long-term \ufb01nancial targets.  We view acquisitions", "\u2022  Leverage technical industry position in developing growth around emerging industrial technologies.   We believe we are positioned to capture emerging opportunities relating to automation and smart technologies  focused on optimizing and connecting customers\u2019 industrial supply chains.  Our position re\ufb02ects our technical  product focus, service capabilities, embedded customer relationships and knowledge across direct production  infrastructure and equipment, and existing supplier relationships.  Following our acquisition of Olympus  Controls in \ufb01scal 2020, we now offer products and solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and  distribution of motion control, machine vision, and robotic technologies.  We expect to continue to expand our  automation footprint and capabilities in coming years, as well as pursue opportunities tied to the Industrial  Internet of Things (IIoT).  We believe this market potential could be meaningful as technology continues to  converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end-markets.", "\u2022  Extend our leading \ufb02uid power and \ufb02ow control position as demand for comprehensive solutions  grows.  We provide innovative \ufb02uid power and \ufb02ow control solutions including systems design and  engineering, electronic control integration, software programing, valve actuation, compliance consulting,  fabrication and assembly, and dedicated service and repair.  Demand for these solutions is increasing across a  variety of industrial, off-highway mobile, technology, and process related applications given a greater focus on  power consumption, plant ef\ufb01ciency and automation, emissions control, remote monitoring, advancements in  machining, regulatory and compliance standards, and data analytics.  We believe our service and engineering  capabilities, shop network, and supplier relationships are key competitive advantages supporting our ability to  capture a greater share of this market growth opportunity in coming years.", "OPERATIONS Our distribution and sales network consists of approximately 460 locations in our Service Center Distribution  segment and 120 locations in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  This includes service centers, distribution  centers, and facilities tied to our \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, and automation operations.  Our service centers resemble  local inventory hubs located in close proximity to our customers and focused primarily on MRO related ful\ufb01llment  and service needs.  Our \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, and automation locations support technical and shop-oriented  services integral to the more specialized and integrated nature of the products and solutions they provide.  Other  operations and channels we market through include inventory management services for indirect consumable supplies  and digital solutions including our Applied.com website, electronic data interchange (EDI) and other electronic  interfaces with customers' technology platforms and plant maintenance systems.", "Our distribution centers provide daily service to our service centers, helping replenish inventories and shipping  products directly to customers where appropriate.  An ef\ufb01cient supply chain and timely delivery of our products is  vital to our value proposition particularly when customers require products for emergency repairs.  We utilize  dedicated third-party transportation providers, our own delivery vehicles, as well as surface and air common carrier  and courier services.  Customers may also pick up items at our service centers.  We maintain product inventory levels  at each service center tailored to the local market.  These inventories consist of standard items as well as other items  speci\ufb01c to local customer demand.", "Our operations are primarily based in the U.S. where 87% of our \ufb01scal 2020 sales were generated.  We also have  international operations, the largest of which is in Canada (8% of \ufb01scal 2020 sales) with the balance (5% of \ufb01scal  2020 sales) in Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.", "SUPPLIERS We are a leading distributor of products including bearings, power transmission products, engineered \ufb02uid power  components and systems, specialty \ufb02ow control solutions, machinery and robotics automation products, industrial  rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.", "These products are generally supplied to us by manufacturers whom we serve as a non-exclusive distributor.  The  suppliers also may provide us product training, as well as sales and marketing support.  Authorizations to represent  particular suppliers and product lines vary by geographic region, particularly for our \ufb02uid power and \ufb02ow control  businesses.  We believe our supplier relationships are generally good, and many have existed for decades.  The  disruption of relationships with certain suppliers, or the disruption of their operations, could adversely affect our  business.", "Our product suppliers typically con\ufb01ne their direct sales activities to large-volume transactions, mainly with large  original equipment manufacturers.  The suppliers generally do not sell maintenance and repair products directly to  the customer, but instead refer the customer to us or another distributor.", "MARKETS  We purchase from thousands of product manufacturers and resell the products to thousands of customers in a wide  variety of industries, including agriculture and food processing, cement, chemicals and petrochemicals, fabricated  metals, forest products, industrial machinery and equipment, mining, oil and gas, primary metals, transportation, and  utilities, as well as to government entities.  Customers range from very large businesses, with which we may have  multiple-location relationships, to very small ones.  We are not signi\ufb01cantly dependent on a single customer or group  of customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole, and no single  customer accounts for more than 3% of our \ufb01scal 2020 sales.", "SERVICES We believe part of our success, differentiation, and competitive advantage is attributable to the comprehensive set of  services and solutions we provide, which we view as critical given the technical nature and application of our core  product offering of motion, power, control, and automation technologies.  The foundation of our service capabilities  lies with our technically oriented associate team, which includes engineers, industry segment specialists, mechanics,  technicians, \ufb02uid power specialists, as well as our systems, shop network, and supplier relationships.  We believe  knowledge and service capabilities relating to our core product offering are increasingly needed across our customer  base given skilled labor constraints within their operations, maintenance requirements, and more sophisticated plant  equipment and processes.  Our services and solutions help customers minimize production downtime, improve", "as an important growth consideration given high fragmentation, greater operational and technical  requirements, and supplier authorizations within the markets we serve.  We believe our sourcing strategy, cash  generation capabilities, and operational discipline are key to our acquisition success.  Over the near to  intermediate-term, our acquisition priorities are focused on continuing to expand our current offerings, while  further enhancing our technical differentiation and value-added service capabilities.", "Fluid Power & Flow Control.  Our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment includes our operations that specialize in  distributing, engineering, designing, integrating, and repairing hydraulic and pneumatic \ufb02uid power technologies,  and engineered \ufb02ow control products and services.  We believe we are the largest distributor and solutions provider  of \ufb02uid power and industrial \ufb02ow control products and solutions in the U.S.  The segment also includes our  operations that focus on robotic and machinery automation solutions following the acquisition of Olympus Controls  in August 2019.", "Our specialty \ufb02ow control operations encompass the operations of our \ufb01scal 2018 acquisition of FCX Performance,  Inc., which provides highly engineered process \ufb02ow control products, solutions, and services.  Products include  pumps, valves, \ufb01ttings, hoses, process instrumentation, actuators, and \ufb01ltration supplies which are used to control  the \ufb02ow of liquids and gases in mission-critical industrial applications.  Our \ufb02ow control products and services are  focused on MRO related applications; OEMs; and engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) \ufb01rms across a  variety of industries including chemicals, steel, power, oil and gas, pulp and paper, pharmaceuticals, food and  beverage, and general industrials.  Similar to our \ufb02uid power operations, our \ufb02ow control offering includes technical  service capabilities such as \ufb02ow control systems integration, repair services, valve actuation, process instrumentation,  pipe and hose fabrication, and compliance consulting.", "machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs.  By providing high levels of service,  product and industry expertise, and technical support, while at the same time offering product breadth and  competitive pricing, we believe we develop stronger, longer-lasting, and more pro\ufb01table customer relationships.  See  the Reportable Segments section below for more detail on the various service solutions we provide to customers.", "REPORTABLE SEGMENTS We report results of operations in two segments: 1) Service Center Based Distribution, and 2) Fluid Power & Flow  Control.  In \ufb01scal 2020, our Service Center Based Distribution segment represented 69% of our total sales, while our  Fluid Power & Flow Control segment represented 31% of our total sales.", "Service Center Based Distribution.  Our Service Center Based Distribution segment includes our legacy MRO  distribution operations across North America, Australia, and New Zealand.  This business operates through local  service centers and distribution centers with a focus on providing products and services addressing the maintenance  and repair of motion control infrastructure and production equipment.  Products primarily include industrial bearings,  motors, belting, drives, couplings, pumps, linear motion products, hydraulic and pneumatic components, \ufb01ltration  supplies, and hoses, as well as other related supplies for general operational needs of customers\u2019 machinery and  equipment.", "WORKING CAPITAL Our working capital position is discussed in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.", "Our robotic and machinery automation operations encompass our \ufb01scal 2020 acquisition of Olympus Controls,  which provides solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and distribution of motion control, machine  vision, and robotic technologies for OEMs, machine builders, integrators, and other industrial and technology end  users.  Products and solutions are marketed across a variety of industries including technology, medical, life sciences,  logistics, and general industrial.  Olympus Controls helps customers develop, produce, and integrate machine  automation solutions using comprehensive technology and industry processes.", "BACKLOG AND SEASONALITY   Backlog orders are not material to our business as a whole, although they are a more important factor for our \ufb02uid  power and \ufb02ow control businesses.  Our business has exhibited minor seasonality.  In particular, sales per day during  the \ufb01rst half of our \ufb01scal year have historically been slightly lower than the second half due, in part, to the impact of  customer plant shutdowns, summer vacations and holidays.", "PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES, AND LICENSES  Customer recognition of our service marks and trade names, including Applied Industrial Technologies\u00ae, Applied\u00ae,  and AIT\u00ae, is an important contributing factor to our sales.  Patents and licenses are not of material importance to  our business.", "RAW MATERIALS AND GENERAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS   Our operations are dependent on general industrial and economic conditions.  We would be adversely affected by  the unavailability of raw materials to our suppliers, prolonged labor disputes experienced by suppliers or customers,  or by events or conditions that have an adverse effect on industrial activity generally in the markets we serve or on  key customer industries.", "In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could  materially affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the only  risks facing the Company.  Certain risks are identi\ufb01ed below in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion  and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.  Additional risks not currently known to us, risks that could apply broadly to issuers, or risks that we currently deem  immaterial, may also impact our business and operations.  Risks can also change over time.", "Our business depends heavily on the operating levels of our customers and the factors that affect them,  including general economic conditions.  The markets for our products and services are subject to conditions or  events that affect demand for goods and materials that our customers produce.  Consequently, demand for our  products and services has been and will continue to be in\ufb02uenced by most of the same factors that affect demand  for and production of customers' goods and materials.", "When customers or prospective customers reduce production levels because of lower demand, increased supply,  higher costs, tight credit conditions, unfavorable currency exchange rates, adverse trade policies, foreign  competition, other competitive disadvantage, offshoring of production, or other reasons, their need for our products  and services diminishes.  Selling prices and terms of sale come under pressure, adversely affecting the pro\ufb01tability  and the durability of customer relationships, and credit losses may increase.  Inventory management becomes more  dif\ufb01cult in times of economic uncertainty.  Volatile economic and credit conditions also make it more dif\ufb01cult for us,  as well as our customers and suppliers, to forecast and plan future business activities.", "The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto continue to impact  our results of operations and \ufb01nancial condition will depend on future developments, which are uncertain  and cannot be predicted.  The COVID-19 pandemic has created signi\ufb01cant volatility, uncertainty, and economic  disruption.  The extent to which the pandemic continues to impact our results of operations and \ufb01nancial condition  will depend on evolving factors that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the following: the duration,  spread, and severity of the pandemic in the countries in which we operate; responsive measures taken by  governmental authorities, businesses, and individuals; the effect on our customers and their demand for our  products and services; the effect on our suppliers and disruptions to the global supply chain; our ability to sell and  provide our products and services and otherwise operate effectively, including as a result of travel restrictions and  associates working from home; disruptions to our operations resulting from associate illness; restrictions or  disruptions to, or reduced availability of, transportation; customers\u2019 ability to pay for our services and products;  closures of our facilities or those of our customers or suppliers; the impact of reduced customer demand on  purchasing incentives we earn from suppliers; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating  conditions can resume.  The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have resulted and will result in lost or delayed sales  to us, and we have experienced business disruptions as we have modi\ufb01ed our business practices (including travel,  work locations, and cancellation of physical participation in meetings).  In addition, the pandemic\u2019s impact on the  economy may affect the proper functioning of \ufb01nancial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates,  product and energy costs, and interest rates.  Even after the pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience  adverse impacts to our business as a result of any economic recession or depression that has occurred or may occur  in the future.  The pandemic\u2019s effects may also amplify the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual  Report on Form 10-K, and may continue to materially and adversely affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, results of  operations, and/or stock price.", "Our business could be adversely affected if we do not successfully execute our strategies to grow sales and  earnings.  We have numerous strategies and initiatives to grow sales, leveraging the breadth of our product  offering, supplier relationships, and value-added technical capabilities to differentiate us and improve our  competitive position.  We also continually seek to enhance gross margins, manage costs, and otherwise improve  earnings.  Many of our activities target improvements to the consistency of our operating practices across our  hundreds of locations.", "Consolidation in our customers' and suppliers' industries could adversely affect our business and \ufb01nancial  results.  Consolidation continues among our product suppliers and customers.  As customer industries consolidate or  customers otherwise aggregate their purchasing power, a greater proportion of our sales could be derived from  large volume contracts, which could adversely impact margins.  Consolidation among customers can trigger changes  in their purchasing strategies, potentially shifting blocks of business among competing distributors and contributing  to volatility in our sales and pressure on prices.  Similarly, continued consolidation among our suppliers could reduce  our ability to negotiate favorable pricing and other commercial terms for our inventory purchases.  There can be no  assurance we will be able to take advantage of consolidation trends.", "Loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, or changes in distribution programs could  adversely affect our sales and earnings.  Our business depends on maintaining an immediately available supply of  various products to meet customer demand.  Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding,  but are terminable by either party.  The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability  of their products, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and have a material adverse effect on our business.  Supply interruptions could arise from raw materials shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity or utilization to  meet demand, \ufb01nancial problems or insolvency, trade issues, labor disputes, public health emergencies, weather  conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control.", "In addition, as a distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors  generally, or us in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts us.", "An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings.  We operate in a highly competitive industry.  The  industry remains fragmented, but is consolidating.  Our principal competitors are specialist and general line  distributors of bearings, power transmission products, \ufb02uid power components and systems, \ufb02ow control solutions,  automation technologies, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, oil\ufb01eld  supplies, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and", "multinational operations, and can include catalog and e-commerce companies.  Competition is largely focused in the  local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities, and price.  Existing competitors have, and future competitors may have, greater \ufb01nancial or other resources than we do,  broader or more appealing product or service offerings, greater market presence, stronger relationships with key  suppliers or customers, or better name recognition.  If existing or future competitors seek to gain or to retain market  share by aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, or otherwise through competitive advantage, our sales and  pro\ufb01tability could be adversely affected.  Our success will also be affected by our ability to continue to provide  competitive offerings as customer preferences or demands evolve, for example with respect to our product and  services portfolio or our e-commerce and inventory management solutions.  Technological evolution or other factors  can render product offerings obsolete, potentially impairing our competitive position and our inventory values.", "Trade policies can have an adverse impact on industries we sell into, potentially negatively affecting our  net sales and pro\ufb01ts.  Changes to trade policies or agreements, including the recently enacted United States- Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), can disrupt geographic and industry demand trends.  While Applied primarily  serves markets in the United States, a signi\ufb01cant portion of our domestic customer base exports or serves exporters.  U.S. government-imposed tariffs or taxes that penalize imports can be met with countermeasures by foreign  governments, or can otherwise impact industrial production, and it becomes dif\ufb01cult to determine what the net  effect of such actions is on Applied\u2019s net sales and pro\ufb01ts.  It is possible that such changes could adversely affect our  \ufb01nancial results.", "Changes in customer or product mix and downward pressure on sales prices could cause our gross pro\ufb01t  percentage to \ufb02uctuate or decline.  Because we serve thousands of customers in many end markets, and offer  millions of products, with varying pro\ufb01tability levels, changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross  pro\ufb01t percentage to \ufb02uctuate or decline.  Downward pressure on sales prices could also cause our gross pro\ufb01t  percentage to \ufb02uctuate or decline.  We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of de\ufb02ation,  pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition.", "Our ability to transact business is highly reliant on information systems.  A disruption or security breach  could materially affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, or results of operation.  We depend on information  systems to, among other things, process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections,  purchase products, manage accounts payable processes, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost- effective operations, provide superior service to customers, conduct business communications, and compile \ufb01nancial  results.  A serious, prolonged disruption of our information systems, due to man-made or natural causes, including  power or telecommunications outage, or breach in security, could materially impair fundamental business processes  and increase expenses, decrease sales, or otherwise reduce earnings.", "Because of our reliance on information systems, we are vulnerable to the growing threat of damage or intrusion  from computer viruses or other cyber-attacks, including ransomware and business e-mail compromise, on our  systems.  Despite precautions taken to prevent or mitigate the risks of such incidents, breaches of our systems could  not only cause business disruption, but could also result in the theft of funds, the theft, loss, or disclosure of", "In recent years, we replaced multiple legacy information system applications with newer software platforms, to  enhance our business information and transaction systems to support future growth.  We continue with and  consider additional enterprise resource planning system conversions, on a smaller scale, in discrete business  operations.  Despite extensive planning, we could experience disruptions related to the implementation because of  the projects' complexity.  The potential adverse consequences could include delays, loss of information, diminished  management reporting capabilities, damage to our ability to process transactions timely, harm to our control  environment, diminished employee productivity, and unanticipated increases in costs.  Further, our ability to achieve  anticipated operational bene\ufb01ts from new platforms is not assured.", "Acquisitions are a key component of our anticipated growth.  We may not be able to identify or to  complete future acquisitions, to integrate them effectively into our operations, or to realize their  anticipated bene\ufb01ts.  Many industries we serve are mature.  As a result, acquisitions of businesses have been  important to our growth.  While we wish to continue to acquire businesses, we may not be able to identify and to  negotiate suitable acquisitions, to obtain \ufb01nancing for them on satisfactory terms, or otherwise to complete  acquisitions.  In addition, existing and future competitors, and private equity \ufb01rms, increasingly compete with us for  acquisitions, which can increase prices and reduce the number of suitable opportunities; the acquisitions they make  can also adversely impact our market position.", "We seek acquisition opportunities that complement and expand our operations.  However, substantial costs, delays,  or other dif\ufb01culties related to integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business or \ufb01nancial results.  For  example, we could face signi\ufb01cant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating information systems, personnel,  and operations, and implementing procedures and controls in a timely and ef\ufb01cient manner.", "Our business depends on our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain quali\ufb01ed employees.  Our  success depends on hiring, developing, motivating, and retaining key employees, including executive, managerial,  sales, professional, and other personnel.  We may have dif\ufb01culty identifying and hiring quali\ufb01ed personnel.  In  addition, we may have dif\ufb01culty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against  us.  With respect to sales and customer service positions in particular, we greatly bene\ufb01t from having employees who  are familiar with the products and services we sell, and their applications, as well as with our customer and supplier  relationships.  The loss of key employees or our failure to attract and retain other quali\ufb01ed workers could disrupt or  adversely affect our business.  In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased competition", "An interruption of operations at our headquarters or distribution centers, or in our means of transporting  product, could adversely impact our business.  Our business depends on maintaining operating activity at our  headquarters and distribution centers, and being able to receive and deliver product in a timely manner.  A serious,  prolonged interruption due to power or telecommunications outage, security incident, terrorist attack, public health  emergency, earthquake, extreme weather events, other natural disasters, \ufb01re, \ufb02ood, transportation disruption, or  other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and \ufb01nancial results.", "Our operations outside the United States increase our exposure to global economic and political conditions  and currency exchange volatility.  Foreign operations contributed 13% of our sales in 2020.  This presence  outside the U.S. increases risks associated with exposure to more volatile economic conditions, political instability,  cultural and legal differences in conducting business (including corrupt practices), economic and trade policy actions,  and currency exchange \ufb02uctuations.", "We believe having a local presence is important to serving our customers, so we maintain service centers and other  operations in local markets throughout the countries in which we operate.  At June 30, 2020, we owned real  properties at 117 locations and leased 433 locations.  Certain properties house more than one operation.", "The properties in Baldwinsville, Newark, Midland, and Stafford are used in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Fontana and Longview properties are used in both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and the Fluid  Power & Flow Control segment.  The remaining properties are used in the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.", "We consider our properties generally suf\ufb01cient to meet our requirements for of\ufb01ce space and inventory stocking.", "When opening new operations, we have tended to lease rather than purchase real property.  We do not consider  any service center, distribution center, or shop property to be material, because we believe that, if it becomes  necessary or desirable to relocate an operation, other suitable property could be found.", "In addition to operating locations, we own or lease certain properties which in the aggregate are not material and  are either for sale, lease, or sublease to third parties due to a relocation or closing.  We also may lease or sublease to  others unused portions of buildings.", "During the current \ufb01scal year, the COVID-19 pandemic signi\ufb01cantly impacted the business.  We are classi\ufb01ed as  critical infrastructure and our facilities remain open and operational as they adhere to health and safety policies.   Demand was challenging in the second half of the \ufb01scal year as customers in many of our core manufacturing end  markets idled or reduced production capacity and facility utilization in response to the pandemic.  Underlying trends  remain subdued but are exhibiting stability into our \ufb01scal 2021 \ufb01rst quarter with organic sales down mid-teens year- over-year through early August.  We are continuing to monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and continue  to take appropriate cost actions.  Cost measures implemented to date include reduced discretionary spend, staff  realignments, temporary furloughs and pay reductions, suspension of 401(k) company match, and other expense  reduction actions.", "With more than 6,200 employees across North America, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, Applied Industrial  Technologies (\u201cApplied,\u201d the \u201cCompany,\u201d \u201cWe,\u201d \u201cUs\u201d or \u201cOur\u201d) is a leading value-added distributor and technical  solutions provider of industrial motion, \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, automation technologies, and related maintenance  supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve MRO (Maintenance, Repair  & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all industrial markets through our  multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  We have a long tradition of growth  dating back to 1923, the year our business was founded in Cleveland, Ohio.  At June 30, 2020, business was  conducted in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore from  approximately 580 facilities.", "Applied monitors several economic indices that have been key indicators for industrial economic activity in the United  States.  These include the Industrial Production (IP) and Manufacturing Capacity Utilization (MCU) indices published  by the Federal Reserve Board and the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) published by the Institute for Supply  Management (ISM).  Historically, our performance correlates well with the MCU, which measures productivity and  calculates a ratio of actual manufacturing output versus potential full capacity output.  When manufacturing plants  are running at a high rate of capacity, they tend to wear out machinery and require replacement parts.", "This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated \ufb01nancial statements for  the years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019.  For the comparison of the years ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, see the  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2019  Annual Report on Form 10-K.", "Our gross pro\ufb01t margin decreased to 28.9% in \ufb01scal 2020 compared to 29.0% in \ufb01scal 2019.  The gross margin was  negatively affected by 12 basis points for $3.9 million of non-routine expense recorded within cost of sales related to  inventory reserves for excess and obsolete inventory for certain locations that were closed during the year within the  U.S. operations of the Service Center Based Distribution segment.", "At June 30, 2020, we had a total of 580 operating facilities in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico,   Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, versus 600 at June 30, 2019.", "We evaluate the recoverability of our slow-moving and inactive inventories at least quarterly.  We estimate the  recoverable cost of such inventory by product type while considering factors such as its age, historic and current  demand trends, the physical condition of the inventory, as well as assumptions regarding future demand.  Our ability  to recover our cost for slow moving or obsolete inventory can be affected by such factors as general market  conditions, future customer demand and relationships with suppliers.  A signi\ufb01cant portion of the products we hold  in inventory have long shelf lives, are not highly susceptible to obsolescence.", "Important risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to the operations levels  of our customers and the economic factors that affect them; risks relating to the effects of the COVID-19  pandemic; changes in the prices for products and services relative to the cost of providing them; reduction  in supplier inventory purchase incentives; loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability,  changes in supplier distribution programs, inability of suppliers to perform, and transportation disruptions;  the cost of products and energy and other operating costs; changes in customer preferences for products  and services of the nature and brands sold by us; changes in customer procurement policies and practices;  competitive pressures; our reliance on information systems and risks relating to their proper functioning,  the security of those systems, and the data stored in or transmitted through them; the impact of economic  conditions on the collectability of trade receivables; reduced demand for our products in targeted markets  due to reasons including consolidation in customer industries; our ability to retain and attract quali\ufb01ed  sales and customer service personnel and other skilled executives, managers and professionals; our ability  to identify and complete acquisitions, integrate them effectively, and realize their anticipated bene\ufb01ts; the  variability, timing and nature of new business opportunities including acquisitions, alliances, customer  relationships, and supplier authorizations; the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in connection  with acquisitions; our ability to access capital markets as needed on reasonable terms; disruption of  operations at our headquarters or distribution centers; risks and uncertainties associated with our foreign  operations, including volatile economic conditions, political instability, cultural and legal differences, and  currency exchange \ufb02uctuations; the potential for goodwill and intangible asset impairment; changes in  accounting policies and practices; our ability to maintain effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting;  organizational changes within the Company; risks related to legal proceedings to which we are a party;  potentially adverse government regulation, legislation, or policies, both enacted and under consideration,  including with respect to federal tax policy, international trade, data privacy and security, and government  contracting; and the occurrence of extraordinary events (including prolonged labor disputes, power  outages, telecommunication outages, terrorist acts, public health emergency, earthquakes, extreme  weather events, other natural disasters, \ufb01res, \ufb02oods, and accidents).  Other factors and unanticipated  events could also adversely affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition or results of operations.", "We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United  States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting as of June 30, 2020, based on the criteria  established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of  the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 14, 2020, expressed an unquali\ufb01ed opinion on the Company's  internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting.", "Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the \u201cCompany\u201d or \u201cApplied\u201d) is a leading value-added  distributor and technical solutions provider of industrial motion, \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, automation technologies,  and related maintenance supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve  MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all  industrial markets through our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  Although  the Company does not generally manufacture the products it sells, it does assemble and repair certain products and  systems.", "Fiscal 2020 The decline in net sales in the third and fourth quarters of \ufb01scal 2020 is due to slowness in key end markets largely  attributable to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.", "There have not been any changes in internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting during the quarter ended June 30, 2020  that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over  \ufb01nancial reporting.  As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, a signi\ufb01cant portion of our workforce began working  remotely in March 2020.  These changes to the working environment did not have a material effect on our internal  controls over \ufb01nancial reporting during the most recent quarter.  We are continually monitoring and assessing the  COVID-19 pandemic on our internal controls to minimize the impact on their design and operating effectiveness.", "The Company\u2019s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting and for its  assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management\u2019s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the  Company\u2019s internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting based on our audit.  We are a public accounting \ufb01rm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting was  maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over \ufb01nancial  reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered  necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "After reevaluating the Old Peer Group this year, Applied elected to replace  it with a published index because we believe the Dow Jones US Industrial  Suppliers Index provides a meaningful comparison of total shareholder  return performance and will be more convenient to administer.", "convenience, and expertise. in virtually all industrial markets through our  knowledge serve MRO and OEM end users  value-added distributor and technical solutions", "Many have used the word unprecedented to describe  recent events and the subsequent business environment we have experienced.", "Here at Applied\u00ae, the word unwavering stands out,  as it characterizes the dedication of our associates during these challenging times brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic.", "While COVID has reset the stage in many ways, we know how we respond determines our performance\u2026 and success.", "Across our  business, we have implemented operational procedures and followed guidelines from the CDC and other health organizations.", "Through  social distancing, virtual meetings and sales calls, distance learning and more, we have remained productive and have learned many best  practices along the way \u2013 all in an effort to serve our customers and keep industry running.", "I am incredibly proud of our teamwork and innovation which allow us to proactively and effectively respond across many industries  where we play a key role in keeping the industrial infrastructure running productively.", "Our track record of operational discipline  while preserving our capability to serve is once again apparent in this environment.", "This was highlighted in fiscal 2020 as we  controlled costs and margins, generated record cash, and enhanced our balance sheet despite the softer demand environment.", "We understand our requirements and know how to manage through any part of the cycle.", "More than ever before, our comprehensive portfolio of products and services \u2013 combined with our specialized  expertise and know-how \u2013 is bridging today\u2019s challenges with tomorrow\u2019s opportunities.", "From the onset of the pandemic, we were classified as  an essential business supporting the important industrial  infrastructure with critical products and services.", "Our  facilities remained open and operational through the  various shelter-in-place and stay-at-home orders, while  adhering to health and safety protocols.", "With more  than 50% of our service center network demand tied  to break-fix requirements, customers depend on us  for critical parts, services and solutions that sustain  operations and support vital areas of the economy.  For some customers, a slowdown prompts incremental  maintenance on their direct production infrastructure  and systems, and we remain a valued partner in  supporting their engineering and maintenance teams in  addressing related needs.", "Today\u2019s environment  is also prompting us to identify new opportunities  through our specialty flow control capabilities, as  well as complementary consumables and emerging  automation technologies.", "We have proven to be  valuable on multiple fronts.", "Targeted investments in recent years have positioned Applied as the leading distributor of technical solutions  across the industrial supply chain.", "This has differentiated  our value proposition and will continue to be ever  more relevant as the industrial economy starts its next  phase of growth with increasing supply chain and  technical requirements.", "As industrial equipment and  facility infrastructure continues to ramp, it will increase  critical break-fix demand across our network, where  we can respond with local expertise and the most  comprehensive suite of motion control technologies   and services within our industry\u2026 and in our   Company\u2019s history.", "Additionally, behaviors reshaped by the pandemic  will reinforce secular growth opportunities tied  to our technical service and engineered solutions  portfolio, which has become a greater portion of  our business in recent years.", "In particular, we believe  customers will increasingly focus on addressing  skilled labor constraints, plant efficiency, and  regulatory requirements, while considerations", "As a value-added business partner, we continue to  look for new and innovative ways to work with our  customers and suppliers to maximize productivity  and investment returns.", "Emerging technologies have  demonstrated encouraging capabilities in helping  reduce downtime and MRO costs through a network  of sensors, smart devices and machine learning  algorithms.", "This data and digitization movement \u2013  often referred to as the Industrial Internet of Things  (IIoT) \u2013 has been steadily building momentum  throughout the industrial and manufacturing sectors.  Through the Applied IoT ConnectTM Program, we  continue to develop the best ways to leverage these offerings and implement solutions for  connected operations.", "We are also leveraging technology and data internally for continuous improvement and team collaboration  on staying \u201cclose\u201d to our customers and executing  business during these times.", "Our Applied Maintenance  Supplies & SolutionsSM team has introduced virtual  ordering by integrating a video conferencing app  to scan product bins and place orders, providing a  contactless and touchless ordering option.", "Furthermore,  we are strengthening our Applied.com channel and  digital sales capabilities through chat assistance  and engagement initiatives, further enhancing our  customers\u2019 procurement experience and driving new  growth opportunities.", "Across our organization, we have many significant and exciting near-term opportunities to productively and  effectively impact our customers and the important  industrial infrastructure.", "A focus on living the Applied    Core Values is reinforced in this business climate, further  supporting our efforts and helping to generate success  for our customers and Applied.", "These values continue to influence how we engage new  end users, fellow associates, suppliers, communities,  and other important stakeholders.", "We have received  letters from customers across our globally-served  industries acknowledging our support and the value we  provide.", "Additionally, we continue  to have an opportunity \u2013 and collective responsibility \u2013 to  further develop plans, actions and results that promote  fair, honest and ethical practices across our business.  We are proud to note that we have been ranked  among the top 15 of Ohio Fortune 1000 companies  for Diversity in Corporate Governance, according to a  recent report from the National Diversity Council.", "We Are AppliedSM, and we have a strong foundation,  expanding capabilities and outstanding potential as the  leading technical products, services and solutions provider  to industrial markets.", "As we enter fiscal 2021, we see  significant opportunity as we leverage our industry position  to effectively adapt to the evolving industrial landscape, and  invest in new and emerging growth opportunities.", "While we are facing some challenges as the industrial economy transitions from a generational pandemic, we  have a remarkably strong business model that generates  cash and adapts well throughout the cycle, as we have  demonstrated.", "Our strategy is deeply focused on the  opportunities ahead of us and moving the Company  toward its long-term financial goals for significant earnings  growth and value creation in the coming years.", "With our  100-year anniversary approaching, I firmly believe our best  days are ahead!", "We are a leading distributor and solutions provider of industrial motion, power, and control technologies.  Through  our comprehensive network of approximately 6,200 associates and 580 facilities including service center, \ufb02uid  power, \ufb02ow control, and automation operations, as well as repair shops and distribution centers, we offer a selection  of more than 7 million stock keeping units with a focus on industrial bearings, power transmission products, \ufb02uid  power components and systems, specialty \ufb02ow control solutions, and robotics and machinery automation.  We  market our products with a set of service solutions including inventory management, engineering, design, repair, and  systems integration, as well as customized mechanical, fabricated rubber, and shop services.", "Our customers use our  products and services for both MRO (maintenance, repair, and operating) and OEM (original equipment  manufacturing) applications across a variety of end markets primarily in North America, as well as Australia, New  Zealand, and Singapore.  Headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, Applied and its predecessor companies have engaged in  business since 1923.", "VALUE PROPOSITION We serve a segment of the industrial distribution market that requires technical expertise and service given that our  products and solutions are directly tied to industrial companies\u2019 production and ef\ufb01ciency initiatives.  As such, we  believe we are integral to our customers\u2019 supply chains considering the critical nature and direct exposure our  solutions have on our customers\u2019 core production equipment and plant capabilities.  While we compete with other  distributors and service providers offering products and solutions addressing this area of the industrial supply chain,  we believe our industry position and value proposition bene\ufb01ts from relative advantages tied to the following key  attributes:", "We focus on helping customers minimize their production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce  overall procurement and maintenance costs.  A primary focus for our service center network is responding to a  critical \u201cbreak-\ufb01x\u201d situation, which requires knowledge of a customer\u2019s facility, localized inventory, timely delivery  capabilities, service execution, and accountability.  In addition, our \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, and automation  operations design, engineer, and integrate solutions focused on making a customer\u2019s operations and equipment  more productive, cost-ef\ufb01cient, and automated.  We believe our products and solutions are increasingly critical", "within the industrial supply chain given an aging and tighter customer labor force, more sophisticated production  equipment and processes, a greater focus on plant \ufb02oor optimization, and compliance and regulatory requirements.", "INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION We primarily compete within North America which we believe offers signi\ufb01cant growth potential given our industry  position, established distribution and sales network, market fragmentation, and customer technical requirements, as  well as opportunities tied to automation and smart technologies.  Growth within our industry is in\ufb02uenced by  broader industrial production and capacity utilization, as well as in\ufb02ation, labor dynamics, capital spending,  geopolitical events, factory optimization initiatives, changes in industrial equipment technologies, and supply chain  requirements.", "Our principal competitors are specialist and general line distributors of bearings, power transmission products, \ufb02uid  power components and systems, \ufb02ow control solutions, industrial rubber products, and linear motion components,  and to a lesser extent providers of tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These  competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational operations.  We also compete with original  equipment manufacturers and integrators.  The identity and number of our competitors vary throughout the  geographic, industry, and product markets we serve.", "STRATEGIC GROWTH AND OPERATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES \u2022  Capture market share across our core service center network.  Our network of service centers located  close to industrial companies allows us to respond quickly and effectively to critical MRO situations involving  direct production infrastructure and industrial equipment.  We believe more sophisticated industrial production  processes, customer labor constraints, and increased manufacturing activity across North America could drive  greater demand for our products and services.  We continue to deploy initiatives to further enhance our  capabilities across our service center network and gain market share.  These include investments in analytics,  strategic account penetration, sales process optimization, talent development, and digital capabilities, as well as  fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded product and service platform across \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control,  automation, and consumables solutions.", "\u2022  Execute ongoing operational initiatives supporting margin pro\ufb01le.  We have a number of initiatives  focused on driving operational improvements throughout the organization.  Systems investments in recent  years including common ERP platforms are supporting opportunities in leveraging shared services, re\ufb01ning our  sales management process, and standardizing pricing and sourcing functions, while we continue to optimize  our shop and distribution network and analytics.  We also remain focused on achieving margin synergies across  our operations following expansion into \ufb02ow control and automation.  This includes enhanced pricing  functions, leveraging vendor procurement, freight savings, and re\ufb01ned cost management.  Combined with  growth in more pro\ufb01table areas of our business, we see ongoing opportunity to optimize our margin pro\ufb01le  and cash generation in coming years.", "\u2022  Pursue acquisitions to supplement growth and strengthen industry position.  We expect to pursue  additional acquisitions aligned with our growth strategy and long-term \ufb01nancial targets.  We view acquisitions", "\u2022  Leverage technical industry position in developing growth around emerging industrial technologies.   We believe we are positioned to capture emerging opportunities relating to automation and smart technologies  focused on optimizing and connecting customers\u2019 industrial supply chains.  Our position re\ufb02ects our technical  product focus, service capabilities, embedded customer relationships and knowledge across direct production  infrastructure and equipment, and existing supplier relationships.  Following our acquisition of Olympus  Controls in \ufb01scal 2020, we now offer products and solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and  distribution of motion control, machine vision, and robotic technologies.  We expect to continue to expand our  automation footprint and capabilities in coming years, as well as pursue opportunities tied to the Industrial  Internet of Things (IIoT).  We believe this market potential could be meaningful as technology continues to  converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end-markets.", "\u2022  Extend our leading \ufb02uid power and \ufb02ow control position as demand for comprehensive solutions  grows.  We provide innovative \ufb02uid power and \ufb02ow control solutions including systems design and  engineering, electronic control integration, software programing, valve actuation, compliance consulting,  fabrication and assembly, and dedicated service and repair.  Demand for these solutions is increasing across a  variety of industrial, off-highway mobile, technology, and process related applications given a greater focus on  power consumption, plant ef\ufb01ciency and automation, emissions control, remote monitoring, advancements in  machining, regulatory and compliance standards, and data analytics.  We believe our service and engineering  capabilities, shop network, and supplier relationships are key competitive advantages supporting our ability to  capture a greater share of this market growth opportunity in coming years.", "OPERATIONS Our distribution and sales network consists of approximately 460 locations in our Service Center Distribution  segment and 120 locations in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  This includes service centers, distribution  centers, and facilities tied to our \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, and automation operations.  Our service centers resemble  local inventory hubs located in close proximity to our customers and focused primarily on MRO related ful\ufb01llment  and service needs.  Our \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, and automation locations support technical and shop-oriented  services integral to the more specialized and integrated nature of the products and solutions they provide.  Other  operations and channels we market through include inventory management services for indirect consumable supplies  and digital solutions including our Applied.com website, electronic data interchange (EDI) and other electronic  interfaces with customers' technology platforms and plant maintenance systems.", "Our distribution centers provide daily service to our service centers, helping replenish inventories and shipping  products directly to customers where appropriate.  An ef\ufb01cient supply chain and timely delivery of our products is  vital to our value proposition particularly when customers require products for emergency repairs.  We utilize  dedicated third-party transportation providers, our own delivery vehicles, as well as surface and air common carrier  and courier services.  Customers may also pick up items at our service centers.  We maintain product inventory levels  at each service center tailored to the local market.  These inventories consist of standard items as well as other items  speci\ufb01c to local customer demand.", "Our operations are primarily based in the U.S. where 87% of our \ufb01scal 2020 sales were generated.  We also have  international operations, the largest of which is in Canada (8% of \ufb01scal 2020 sales) with the balance (5% of \ufb01scal  2020 sales) in Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.", "SUPPLIERS We are a leading distributor of products including bearings, power transmission products, engineered \ufb02uid power  components and systems, specialty \ufb02ow control solutions, machinery and robotics automation products, industrial  rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.", "These products are generally supplied to us by manufacturers whom we serve as a non-exclusive distributor.  The  suppliers also may provide us product training, as well as sales and marketing support.  Authorizations to represent  particular suppliers and product lines vary by geographic region, particularly for our \ufb02uid power and \ufb02ow control  businesses.  We believe our supplier relationships are generally good, and many have existed for decades.  The  disruption of relationships with certain suppliers, or the disruption of their operations, could adversely affect our  business.", "Our product suppliers typically con\ufb01ne their direct sales activities to large-volume transactions, mainly with large  original equipment manufacturers.  The suppliers generally do not sell maintenance and repair products directly to  the customer, but instead refer the customer to us or another distributor.", "MARKETS  We purchase from thousands of product manufacturers and resell the products to thousands of customers in a wide  variety of industries, including agriculture and food processing, cement, chemicals and petrochemicals, fabricated  metals, forest products, industrial machinery and equipment, mining, oil and gas, primary metals, transportation, and  utilities, as well as to government entities.  Customers range from very large businesses, with which we may have  multiple-location relationships, to very small ones.  We are not signi\ufb01cantly dependent on a single customer or group  of customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole, and no single  customer accounts for more than 3% of our \ufb01scal 2020 sales.", "SERVICES We believe part of our success, differentiation, and competitive advantage is attributable to the comprehensive set of  services and solutions we provide, which we view as critical given the technical nature and application of our core  product offering of motion, power, control, and automation technologies.  The foundation of our service capabilities  lies with our technically oriented associate team, which includes engineers, industry segment specialists, mechanics,  technicians, \ufb02uid power specialists, as well as our systems, shop network, and supplier relationships.  We believe  knowledge and service capabilities relating to our core product offering are increasingly needed across our customer  base given skilled labor constraints within their operations, maintenance requirements, and more sophisticated plant  equipment and processes.  Our services and solutions help customers minimize production downtime, improve", "as an important growth consideration given high fragmentation, greater operational and technical  requirements, and supplier authorizations within the markets we serve.  We believe our sourcing strategy, cash  generation capabilities, and operational discipline are key to our acquisition success.  Over the near to  intermediate-term, our acquisition priorities are focused on continuing to expand our current offerings, while  further enhancing our technical differentiation and value-added service capabilities.", "Fluid Power & Flow Control.  Our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment includes our operations that specialize in  distributing, engineering, designing, integrating, and repairing hydraulic and pneumatic \ufb02uid power technologies,  and engineered \ufb02ow control products and services.  We believe we are the largest distributor and solutions provider  of \ufb02uid power and industrial \ufb02ow control products and solutions in the U.S.  The segment also includes our  operations that focus on robotic and machinery automation solutions following the acquisition of Olympus Controls  in August 2019.", "Our specialty \ufb02ow control operations encompass the operations of our \ufb01scal 2018 acquisition of FCX Performance,  Inc., which provides highly engineered process \ufb02ow control products, solutions, and services.  Products include  pumps, valves, \ufb01ttings, hoses, process instrumentation, actuators, and \ufb01ltration supplies which are used to control  the \ufb02ow of liquids and gases in mission-critical industrial applications.  Our \ufb02ow control products and services are  focused on MRO related applications; OEMs; and engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) \ufb01rms across a  variety of industries including chemicals, steel, power, oil and gas, pulp and paper, pharmaceuticals, food and  beverage, and general industrials.  Similar to our \ufb02uid power operations, our \ufb02ow control offering includes technical  service capabilities such as \ufb02ow control systems integration, repair services, valve actuation, process instrumentation,  pipe and hose fabrication, and compliance consulting.", "machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs.  By providing high levels of service,  product and industry expertise, and technical support, while at the same time offering product breadth and  competitive pricing, we believe we develop stronger, longer-lasting, and more pro\ufb01table customer relationships.  See  the Reportable Segments section below for more detail on the various service solutions we provide to customers.", "REPORTABLE SEGMENTS We report results of operations in two segments: 1) Service Center Based Distribution, and 2) Fluid Power & Flow  Control.  In \ufb01scal 2020, our Service Center Based Distribution segment represented 69% of our total sales, while our  Fluid Power & Flow Control segment represented 31% of our total sales.", "Service Center Based Distribution.  Our Service Center Based Distribution segment includes our legacy MRO  distribution operations across North America, Australia, and New Zealand.  This business operates through local  service centers and distribution centers with a focus on providing products and services addressing the maintenance  and repair of motion control infrastructure and production equipment.  Products primarily include industrial bearings,  motors, belting, drives, couplings, pumps, linear motion products, hydraulic and pneumatic components, \ufb01ltration  supplies, and hoses, as well as other related supplies for general operational needs of customers\u2019 machinery and  equipment.", "WORKING CAPITAL Our working capital position is discussed in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.", "Our robotic and machinery automation operations encompass our \ufb01scal 2020 acquisition of Olympus Controls,  which provides solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and distribution of motion control, machine  vision, and robotic technologies for OEMs, machine builders, integrators, and other industrial and technology end  users.  Products and solutions are marketed across a variety of industries including technology, medical, life sciences,  logistics, and general industrial.  Olympus Controls helps customers develop, produce, and integrate machine  automation solutions using comprehensive technology and industry processes.", "BACKLOG AND SEASONALITY   Backlog orders are not material to our business as a whole, although they are a more important factor for our \ufb02uid  power and \ufb02ow control businesses.  Our business has exhibited minor seasonality.  In particular, sales per day during  the \ufb01rst half of our \ufb01scal year have historically been slightly lower than the second half due, in part, to the impact of  customer plant shutdowns, summer vacations and holidays.", "PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES, AND LICENSES  Customer recognition of our service marks and trade names, including Applied Industrial Technologies\u00ae, Applied\u00ae,  and AIT\u00ae, is an important contributing factor to our sales.  Patents and licenses are not of material importance to  our business.", "RAW MATERIALS AND GENERAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS   Our operations are dependent on general industrial and economic conditions.  We would be adversely affected by  the unavailability of raw materials to our suppliers, prolonged labor disputes experienced by suppliers or customers,  or by events or conditions that have an adverse effect on industrial activity generally in the markets we serve or on  key customer industries.", "In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could  materially affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the only  risks facing the Company.  Certain risks are identi\ufb01ed below in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion  and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.  Additional risks not currently known to us, risks that could apply broadly to issuers, or risks that we currently deem  immaterial, may also impact our business and operations.  Risks can also change over time.", "Our business depends heavily on the operating levels of our customers and the factors that affect them,  including general economic conditions.  The markets for our products and services are subject to conditions or  events that affect demand for goods and materials that our customers produce.  Consequently, demand for our  products and services has been and will continue to be in\ufb02uenced by most of the same factors that affect demand  for and production of customers' goods and materials.", "When customers or prospective customers reduce production levels because of lower demand, increased supply,  higher costs, tight credit conditions, unfavorable currency exchange rates, adverse trade policies, foreign  competition, other competitive disadvantage, offshoring of production, or other reasons, their need for our products  and services diminishes.  Selling prices and terms of sale come under pressure, adversely affecting the pro\ufb01tability  and the durability of customer relationships, and credit losses may increase.  Inventory management becomes more  dif\ufb01cult in times of economic uncertainty.  Volatile economic and credit conditions also make it more dif\ufb01cult for us,  as well as our customers and suppliers, to forecast and plan future business activities.", "The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto continue to impact  our results of operations and \ufb01nancial condition will depend on future developments, which are uncertain  and cannot be predicted.  The COVID-19 pandemic has created signi\ufb01cant volatility, uncertainty, and economic  disruption.  The extent to which the pandemic continues to impact our results of operations and \ufb01nancial condition  will depend on evolving factors that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the following: the duration,  spread, and severity of the pandemic in the countries in which we operate; responsive measures taken by  governmental authorities, businesses, and individuals; the effect on our customers and their demand for our  products and services; the effect on our suppliers and disruptions to the global supply chain; our ability to sell and  provide our products and services and otherwise operate effectively, including as a result of travel restrictions and  associates working from home; disruptions to our operations resulting from associate illness; restrictions or  disruptions to, or reduced availability of, transportation; customers\u2019 ability to pay for our services and products;  closures of our facilities or those of our customers or suppliers; the impact of reduced customer demand on  purchasing incentives we earn from suppliers; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating  conditions can resume.  The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have resulted and will result in lost or delayed sales  to us, and we have experienced business disruptions as we have modi\ufb01ed our business practices (including travel,  work locations, and cancellation of physical participation in meetings).  In addition, the pandemic\u2019s impact on the  economy may affect the proper functioning of \ufb01nancial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates,  product and energy costs, and interest rates.  Even after the pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience  adverse impacts to our business as a result of any economic recession or depression that has occurred or may occur  in the future.  The pandemic\u2019s effects may also amplify the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual  Report on Form 10-K, and may continue to materially and adversely affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, results of  operations, and/or stock price.", "Our business could be adversely affected if we do not successfully execute our strategies to grow sales and  earnings.  We have numerous strategies and initiatives to grow sales, leveraging the breadth of our product  offering, supplier relationships, and value-added technical capabilities to differentiate us and improve our  competitive position.  We also continually seek to enhance gross margins, manage costs, and otherwise improve  earnings.  Many of our activities target improvements to the consistency of our operating practices across our  hundreds of locations.", "Consolidation in our customers' and suppliers' industries could adversely affect our business and \ufb01nancial  results.  Consolidation continues among our product suppliers and customers.  As customer industries consolidate or  customers otherwise aggregate their purchasing power, a greater proportion of our sales could be derived from  large volume contracts, which could adversely impact margins.  Consolidation among customers can trigger changes  in their purchasing strategies, potentially shifting blocks of business among competing distributors and contributing  to volatility in our sales and pressure on prices.  Similarly, continued consolidation among our suppliers could reduce  our ability to negotiate favorable pricing and other commercial terms for our inventory purchases.  There can be no  assurance we will be able to take advantage of consolidation trends.", "Loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, or changes in distribution programs could  adversely affect our sales and earnings.  Our business depends on maintaining an immediately available supply of  various products to meet customer demand.  Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding,  but are terminable by either party.  The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability  of their products, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and have a material adverse effect on our business.  Supply interruptions could arise from raw materials shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity or utilization to  meet demand, \ufb01nancial problems or insolvency, trade issues, labor disputes, public health emergencies, weather  conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control.", "In addition, as a distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors  generally, or us in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts us.", "An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings.  We operate in a highly competitive industry.  The  industry remains fragmented, but is consolidating.  Our principal competitors are specialist and general line  distributors of bearings, power transmission products, \ufb02uid power components and systems, \ufb02ow control solutions,  automation technologies, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, oil\ufb01eld  supplies, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and", "multinational operations, and can include catalog and e-commerce companies.  Competition is largely focused in the  local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities, and price.  Existing competitors have, and future competitors may have, greater \ufb01nancial or other resources than we do,  broader or more appealing product or service offerings, greater market presence, stronger relationships with key  suppliers or customers, or better name recognition.  If existing or future competitors seek to gain or to retain market  share by aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, or otherwise through competitive advantage, our sales and  pro\ufb01tability could be adversely affected.  Our success will also be affected by our ability to continue to provide  competitive offerings as customer preferences or demands evolve, for example with respect to our product and  services portfolio or our e-commerce and inventory management solutions.  Technological evolution or other factors  can render product offerings obsolete, potentially impairing our competitive position and our inventory values.", "Trade policies can have an adverse impact on industries we sell into, potentially negatively affecting our  net sales and pro\ufb01ts.  Changes to trade policies or agreements, including the recently enacted United States- Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), can disrupt geographic and industry demand trends.  While Applied primarily  serves markets in the United States, a signi\ufb01cant portion of our domestic customer base exports or serves exporters.  U.S. government-imposed tariffs or taxes that penalize imports can be met with countermeasures by foreign  governments, or can otherwise impact industrial production, and it becomes dif\ufb01cult to determine what the net  effect of such actions is on Applied\u2019s net sales and pro\ufb01ts.  It is possible that such changes could adversely affect our  \ufb01nancial results.", "Changes in customer or product mix and downward pressure on sales prices could cause our gross pro\ufb01t  percentage to \ufb02uctuate or decline.  Because we serve thousands of customers in many end markets, and offer  millions of products, with varying pro\ufb01tability levels, changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross  pro\ufb01t percentage to \ufb02uctuate or decline.  Downward pressure on sales prices could also cause our gross pro\ufb01t  percentage to \ufb02uctuate or decline.  We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of de\ufb02ation,  pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition.", "Our ability to transact business is highly reliant on information systems.  A disruption or security breach  could materially affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition, or results of operation.  We depend on information  systems to, among other things, process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections,  purchase products, manage accounts payable processes, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost- effective operations, provide superior service to customers, conduct business communications, and compile \ufb01nancial  results.  A serious, prolonged disruption of our information systems, due to man-made or natural causes, including  power or telecommunications outage, or breach in security, could materially impair fundamental business processes  and increase expenses, decrease sales, or otherwise reduce earnings.", "Because of our reliance on information systems, we are vulnerable to the growing threat of damage or intrusion  from computer viruses or other cyber-attacks, including ransomware and business e-mail compromise, on our  systems.  Despite precautions taken to prevent or mitigate the risks of such incidents, breaches of our systems could  not only cause business disruption, but could also result in the theft of funds, the theft, loss, or disclosure of", "In recent years, we replaced multiple legacy information system applications with newer software platforms, to  enhance our business information and transaction systems to support future growth.  We continue with and  consider additional enterprise resource planning system conversions, on a smaller scale, in discrete business  operations.  Despite extensive planning, we could experience disruptions related to the implementation because of  the projects' complexity.  The potential adverse consequences could include delays, loss of information, diminished  management reporting capabilities, damage to our ability to process transactions timely, harm to our control  environment, diminished employee productivity, and unanticipated increases in costs.  Further, our ability to achieve  anticipated operational bene\ufb01ts from new platforms is not assured.", "Acquisitions are a key component of our anticipated growth.  We may not be able to identify or to  complete future acquisitions, to integrate them effectively into our operations, or to realize their  anticipated bene\ufb01ts.  Many industries we serve are mature.  As a result, acquisitions of businesses have been  important to our growth.  While we wish to continue to acquire businesses, we may not be able to identify and to  negotiate suitable acquisitions, to obtain \ufb01nancing for them on satisfactory terms, or otherwise to complete  acquisitions.  In addition, existing and future competitors, and private equity \ufb01rms, increasingly compete with us for  acquisitions, which can increase prices and reduce the number of suitable opportunities; the acquisitions they make  can also adversely impact our market position.", "We seek acquisition opportunities that complement and expand our operations.  However, substantial costs, delays,  or other dif\ufb01culties related to integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business or \ufb01nancial results.  For  example, we could face signi\ufb01cant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating information systems, personnel,  and operations, and implementing procedures and controls in a timely and ef\ufb01cient manner.", "Our business depends on our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain quali\ufb01ed employees.  Our  success depends on hiring, developing, motivating, and retaining key employees, including executive, managerial,  sales, professional, and other personnel.  We may have dif\ufb01culty identifying and hiring quali\ufb01ed personnel.  In  addition, we may have dif\ufb01culty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against  us.  With respect to sales and customer service positions in particular, we greatly bene\ufb01t from having employees who  are familiar with the products and services we sell, and their applications, as well as with our customer and supplier  relationships.  The loss of key employees or our failure to attract and retain other quali\ufb01ed workers could disrupt or  adversely affect our business.  In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased competition", "An interruption of operations at our headquarters or distribution centers, or in our means of transporting  product, could adversely impact our business.  Our business depends on maintaining operating activity at our  headquarters and distribution centers, and being able to receive and deliver product in a timely manner.  A serious,  prolonged interruption due to power or telecommunications outage, security incident, terrorist attack, public health  emergency, earthquake, extreme weather events, other natural disasters, \ufb01re, \ufb02ood, transportation disruption, or  other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and \ufb01nancial results.", "Our operations outside the United States increase our exposure to global economic and political conditions  and currency exchange volatility.  Foreign operations contributed 13% of our sales in 2020.  This presence  outside the U.S. increases risks associated with exposure to more volatile economic conditions, political instability,  cultural and legal differences in conducting business (including corrupt practices), economic and trade policy actions,  and currency exchange \ufb02uctuations.", "We believe having a local presence is important to serving our customers, so we maintain service centers and other  operations in local markets throughout the countries in which we operate.  At June 30, 2020, we owned real  properties at 117 locations and leased 433 locations.  Certain properties house more than one operation.", "The properties in Baldwinsville, Newark, Midland, and Stafford are used in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Fontana and Longview properties are used in both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and the Fluid  Power & Flow Control segment.  The remaining properties are used in the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.", "We consider our properties generally suf\ufb01cient to meet our requirements for of\ufb01ce space and inventory stocking.", "When opening new operations, we have tended to lease rather than purchase real property.  We do not consider  any service center, distribution center, or shop property to be material, because we believe that, if it becomes  necessary or desirable to relocate an operation, other suitable property could be found.", "In addition to operating locations, we own or lease certain properties which in the aggregate are not material and  are either for sale, lease, or sublease to third parties due to a relocation or closing.  We also may lease or sublease to  others unused portions of buildings.", "During the current \ufb01scal year, the COVID-19 pandemic signi\ufb01cantly impacted the business.  We are classi\ufb01ed as  critical infrastructure and our facilities remain open and operational as they adhere to health and safety policies.   Demand was challenging in the second half of the \ufb01scal year as customers in many of our core manufacturing end  markets idled or reduced production capacity and facility utilization in response to the pandemic.  Underlying trends  remain subdued but are exhibiting stability into our \ufb01scal 2021 \ufb01rst quarter with organic sales down mid-teens year- over-year through early August.  We are continuing to monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and continue  to take appropriate cost actions.  Cost measures implemented to date include reduced discretionary spend, staff  realignments, temporary furloughs and pay reductions, suspension of 401(k) company match, and other expense  reduction actions.", "With more than 6,200 employees across North America, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, Applied Industrial  Technologies (\u201cApplied,\u201d the \u201cCompany,\u201d \u201cWe,\u201d \u201cUs\u201d or \u201cOur\u201d) is a leading value-added distributor and technical  solutions provider of industrial motion, \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, automation technologies, and related maintenance  supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve MRO (Maintenance, Repair  & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all industrial markets through our  multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  We have a long tradition of growth  dating back to 1923, the year our business was founded in Cleveland, Ohio.  At June 30, 2020, business was  conducted in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore from  approximately 580 facilities.", "Applied monitors several economic indices that have been key indicators for industrial economic activity in the United  States.  These include the Industrial Production (IP) and Manufacturing Capacity Utilization (MCU) indices published  by the Federal Reserve Board and the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) published by the Institute for Supply  Management (ISM).  Historically, our performance correlates well with the MCU, which measures productivity and  calculates a ratio of actual manufacturing output versus potential full capacity output.  When manufacturing plants  are running at a high rate of capacity, they tend to wear out machinery and require replacement parts.", "This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated \ufb01nancial statements for  the years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019.  For the comparison of the years ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, see the  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2019  Annual Report on Form 10-K.", "Our gross pro\ufb01t margin decreased to 28.9% in \ufb01scal 2020 compared to 29.0% in \ufb01scal 2019.  The gross margin was  negatively affected by 12 basis points for $3.9 million of non-routine expense recorded within cost of sales related to  inventory reserves for excess and obsolete inventory for certain locations that were closed during the year within the  U.S. operations of the Service Center Based Distribution segment.", "At June 30, 2020, we had a total of 580 operating facilities in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico,   Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, versus 600 at June 30, 2019.", "We evaluate the recoverability of our slow-moving and inactive inventories at least quarterly.  We estimate the  recoverable cost of such inventory by product type while considering factors such as its age, historic and current  demand trends, the physical condition of the inventory, as well as assumptions regarding future demand.  Our ability  to recover our cost for slow moving or obsolete inventory can be affected by such factors as general market  conditions, future customer demand and relationships with suppliers.  A signi\ufb01cant portion of the products we hold  in inventory have long shelf lives, are not highly susceptible to obsolescence.", "Important risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to the operations levels  of our customers and the economic factors that affect them; risks relating to the effects of the COVID-19  pandemic; changes in the prices for products and services relative to the cost of providing them; reduction  in supplier inventory purchase incentives; loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability,  changes in supplier distribution programs, inability of suppliers to perform, and transportation disruptions;  the cost of products and energy and other operating costs; changes in customer preferences for products  and services of the nature and brands sold by us; changes in customer procurement policies and practices;  competitive pressures; our reliance on information systems and risks relating to their proper functioning,  the security of those systems, and the data stored in or transmitted through them; the impact of economic  conditions on the collectability of trade receivables; reduced demand for our products in targeted markets  due to reasons including consolidation in customer industries; our ability to retain and attract quali\ufb01ed  sales and customer service personnel and other skilled executives, managers and professionals; our ability  to identify and complete acquisitions, integrate them effectively, and realize their anticipated bene\ufb01ts; the  variability, timing and nature of new business opportunities including acquisitions, alliances, customer  relationships, and supplier authorizations; the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in connection  with acquisitions; our ability to access capital markets as needed on reasonable terms; disruption of  operations at our headquarters or distribution centers; risks and uncertainties associated with our foreign  operations, including volatile economic conditions, political instability, cultural and legal differences, and  currency exchange \ufb02uctuations; the potential for goodwill and intangible asset impairment; changes in  accounting policies and practices; our ability to maintain effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting;  organizational changes within the Company; risks related to legal proceedings to which we are a party;  potentially adverse government regulation, legislation, or policies, both enacted and under consideration,  including with respect to federal tax policy, international trade, data privacy and security, and government  contracting; and the occurrence of extraordinary events (including prolonged labor disputes, power  outages, telecommunication outages, terrorist acts, public health emergency, earthquakes, extreme  weather events, other natural disasters, \ufb01res, \ufb02oods, and accidents).  Other factors and unanticipated  events could also adversely affect our business, \ufb01nancial condition or results of operations.", "We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United  States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting as of June 30, 2020, based on the criteria  established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of  the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 14, 2020, expressed an unquali\ufb01ed opinion on the Company's  internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting.", "Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the \u201cCompany\u201d or \u201cApplied\u201d) is a leading value-added  distributor and technical solutions provider of industrial motion, \ufb02uid power, \ufb02ow control, automation technologies,  and related maintenance supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve  MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all  industrial markets through our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  Although  the Company does not generally manufacture the products it sells, it does assemble and repair certain products and  systems.", "Fiscal 2020 The decline in net sales in the third and fourth quarters of \ufb01scal 2020 is due to slowness in key end markets largely  attributable to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.", "There have not been any changes in internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting during the quarter ended June 30, 2020  that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over  \ufb01nancial reporting.  As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, a signi\ufb01cant portion of our workforce began working  remotely in March 2020.  These changes to the working environment did not have a material effect on our internal  controls over \ufb01nancial reporting during the most recent quarter.  We are continually monitoring and assessing the  COVID-19 pandemic on our internal controls to minimize the impact on their design and operating effectiveness.", "The Company\u2019s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting and for its  assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management\u2019s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the  Company\u2019s internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting based on our audit.  We are a public accounting \ufb01rm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over \ufb01nancial reporting was  maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over \ufb01nancial  reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered  necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "After reevaluating the Old Peer Group this year, Applied elected to replace  it with a published index because we believe the Dow Jones US Industrial  Suppliers Index provides a meaningful comparison of total shareholder  return performance and will be more convenient to administer."]}