{"Environment": ["This responsibility is  demonstrated as we implement greener practices in our operations, promote diversity and continuous learning across  our organization, and continue to focus on and support the well-being of our associates and communities.", "Overall, our  Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) efforts are best summarized as Committed, Responsible and Supportive.", "We  advise customers on energy saving opportunities, including conducting energy audits in critical areas such as motors, belting  and gearing.", "Our innovative fluid power systems and solutions reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase equipment  efficiency, and support cleaner energy sources and emerging electrification technologies.", "Additionally, our specialty flow  control products support power generation infrastructure with cleaner technologies such as steam and geothermal.", "We also  promote product alternatives that are bio-based, non-toxic and / or made from recycled content.", "Our fluid power operations offer products and services primarily used within industrial, off-highway mobile, and  technology applications.  Fluid power products include hydraulic and pneumatic technologies using liquids and gases  to transmit power, typically in smaller spaces than other forms of power transmission.  Hydraulic products offer high  power to weight ratios, high torque at low speeds, and power reliability, while pneumatic products are focused on  lightweight applications in need of speed and precision.  Our fluid power products and solutions are commonly used  for off-highway equipment, heavy industrial equipment and machines at factories, marine and offshore equipment,  factory automation, food processing equipment, packaging operations, and downstream energy process systems.  Operations are supported by a team of certified fluid power specialists, mechanics, technicians, and engineers that  provide technical services ranging from system design and integration, electronic control integration, hydraulic  assemblies, repair and rebuild, manifold design and assembly, customized filtration solutions, software programming  and repair, and hydraulic system retrofits.", "ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS We believe that compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise  relating to environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or  competitive position.", "Volatility in product, energy, and other costs can affect our profitability.  Product manufacturers may adjust  the prices of products we distribute for many reasons, including changes in their costs for raw materials,  components, energy, labor, and tariffs and taxes on imports.  In addition, a portion of our own distribution costs is  composed of fuel for our sales and delivery vehicles, freight, and utility expenses for our facilities.  Our ability to pass  along increases in our product and distribution costs in a timely manner to our customers depends on execution,  market conditions, and contractual limitations.  Failing to pass along price increases timely in an inflationary  environment, or not maintaining sales volume while increasing prices, could significantly reduce our profitability.", "While increases in the cost of products or energy could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if  severe, could also adversely impact us by creating deflation in selling prices, which could cause our gross profit  margin to deteriorate.  Changes in energy or raw materials costs can also adversely affect customers; for example,  declines in oil, gas, and coal prices may negatively impact customers operating in those industries and, consequently,  our sales to those customers.", "This responsibility is  demonstrated as we implement greener practices in our operations, promote diversity and continuous learning across  our organization, and continue to focus on and support the well-being of our associates and communities.", "Overall, our  Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) efforts are best summarized as Committed, Responsible and Supportive.", "We  advise customers on energy saving opportunities, including conducting energy audits in critical areas such as motors, belting  and gearing.", "Our innovative fluid power systems and solutions reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase equipment  efficiency, and support cleaner energy sources and emerging electrification technologies.", "Additionally, our specialty flow  control products support power generation infrastructure with cleaner technologies such as steam and geothermal.", "We also  promote product alternatives that are bio-based, non-toxic and / or made from recycled content.", "Our fluid power operations offer products and services primarily used within industrial, off-highway mobile, and  technology applications.  Fluid power products include hydraulic and pneumatic technologies using liquids and gases  to transmit power, typically in smaller spaces than other forms of power transmission.  Hydraulic products offer high  power to weight ratios, high torque at low speeds, and power reliability, while pneumatic products are focused on  lightweight applications in need of speed and precision.  Our fluid power products and solutions are commonly used  for off-highway equipment, heavy industrial equipment and machines at factories, marine and offshore equipment,  factory automation, food processing equipment, packaging operations, and downstream energy process systems.  Operations are supported by a team of certified fluid power specialists, mechanics, technicians, and engineers that  provide technical services ranging from system design and integration, electronic control integration, hydraulic  assemblies, repair and rebuild, manifold design and assembly, customized filtration solutions, software programming  and repair, and hydraulic system retrofits.", "ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS We believe that compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise  relating to environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or  competitive position.", "Volatility in product, energy, and other costs can affect our profitability.  Product manufacturers may adjust  the prices of products we distribute for many reasons, including changes in their costs for raw materials,  components, energy, labor, and tariffs and taxes on imports.  In addition, a portion of our own distribution costs is  composed of fuel for our sales and delivery vehicles, freight, and utility expenses for our facilities.  Our ability to pass  along increases in our product and distribution costs in a timely manner to our customers depends on execution,  market conditions, and contractual limitations.  Failing to pass along price increases timely in an inflationary  environment, or not maintaining sales volume while increasing prices, could significantly reduce our profitability.", "While increases in the cost of products or energy could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if  severe, could also adversely impact us by creating deflation in selling prices, which could cause our gross profit  margin to deteriorate.  Changes in energy or raw materials costs can also adversely affect customers; for example,  declines in oil, gas, and coal prices may negatively impact customers operating in those industries and, consequently,  our sales to those customers.", "This responsibility is  demonstrated as we implement greener practices in our operations, promote diversity and continuous learning across  our organization, and continue to focus on and support the well-being of our associates and communities.", "Overall, our  Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) efforts are best summarized as Committed, Responsible and Supportive.", "We  advise customers on energy saving opportunities, including conducting energy audits in critical areas such as motors, belting  and gearing.", "Our innovative fluid power systems and solutions reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase equipment  efficiency, and support cleaner energy sources and emerging electrification technologies.", "Additionally, our specialty flow  control products support power generation infrastructure with cleaner technologies such as steam and geothermal.", "We also  promote product alternatives that are bio-based, non-toxic and / or made from recycled content.", "Our fluid power operations offer products and services primarily used within industrial, off-highway mobile, and  technology applications.  Fluid power products include hydraulic and pneumatic technologies using liquids and gases  to transmit power, typically in smaller spaces than other forms of power transmission.  Hydraulic products offer high  power to weight ratios, high torque at low speeds, and power reliability, while pneumatic products are focused on  lightweight applications in need of speed and precision.  Our fluid power products and solutions are commonly used  for off-highway equipment, heavy industrial equipment and machines at factories, marine and offshore equipment,  factory automation, food processing equipment, packaging operations, and downstream energy process systems.  Operations are supported by a team of certified fluid power specialists, mechanics, technicians, and engineers that  provide technical services ranging from system design and integration, electronic control integration, hydraulic  assemblies, repair and rebuild, manifold design and assembly, customized filtration solutions, software programming  and repair, and hydraulic system retrofits.", "ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS We believe that compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise  relating to environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or  competitive position.", "Volatility in product, energy, and other costs can affect our profitability.  Product manufacturers may adjust  the prices of products we distribute for many reasons, including changes in their costs for raw materials,  components, energy, labor, and tariffs and taxes on imports.  In addition, a portion of our own distribution costs is  composed of fuel for our sales and delivery vehicles, freight, and utility expenses for our facilities.  Our ability to pass  along increases in our product and distribution costs in a timely manner to our customers depends on execution,  market conditions, and contractual limitations.  Failing to pass along price increases timely in an inflationary  environment, or not maintaining sales volume while increasing prices, could significantly reduce our profitability.", "While increases in the cost of products or energy could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if  severe, could also adversely impact us by creating deflation in selling prices, which could cause our gross profit  margin to deteriorate.  Changes in energy or raw materials costs can also adversely affect customers; for example,  declines in oil, gas, and coal prices may negatively impact customers operating in those industries and, consequently,  our sales to those customers.", "This responsibility is  demonstrated as we implement greener practices in our operations, promote diversity and continuous learning across  our organization, and continue to focus on and support the well-being of our associates and communities.", "Overall, our  Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) efforts are best summarized as Committed, Responsible and Supportive.", "We  advise customers on energy saving opportunities, including conducting energy audits in critical areas such as motors, belting  and gearing.", "Our innovative fluid power systems and solutions reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase equipment  efficiency, and support cleaner energy sources and emerging electrification technologies.", "Additionally, our specialty flow  control products support power generation infrastructure with cleaner technologies such as steam and geothermal.", "We also  promote product alternatives that are bio-based, non-toxic and / or made from recycled content.", "Our fluid power operations offer products and services primarily used within industrial, off-highway mobile, and  technology applications.  Fluid power products include hydraulic and pneumatic technologies using liquids and gases  to transmit power, typically in smaller spaces than other forms of power transmission.  Hydraulic products offer high  power to weight ratios, high torque at low speeds, and power reliability, while pneumatic products are focused on  lightweight applications in need of speed and precision.  Our fluid power products and solutions are commonly used  for off-highway equipment, heavy industrial equipment and machines at factories, marine and offshore equipment,  factory automation, food processing equipment, packaging operations, and downstream energy process systems.  Operations are supported by a team of certified fluid power specialists, mechanics, technicians, and engineers that  provide technical services ranging from system design and integration, electronic control integration, hydraulic  assemblies, repair and rebuild, manifold design and assembly, customized filtration solutions, software programming  and repair, and hydraulic system retrofits.", "ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS We believe that compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise  relating to environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or  competitive position.", "Volatility in product, energy, and other costs can affect our profitability.  Product manufacturers may adjust  the prices of products we distribute for many reasons, including changes in their costs for raw materials,  components, energy, labor, and tariffs and taxes on imports.  In addition, a portion of our own distribution costs is  composed of fuel for our sales and delivery vehicles, freight, and utility expenses for our facilities.  Our ability to pass  along increases in our product and distribution costs in a timely manner to our customers depends on execution,  market conditions, and contractual limitations.  Failing to pass along price increases timely in an inflationary  environment, or not maintaining sales volume while increasing prices, could significantly reduce our profitability.", "While increases in the cost of products or energy could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if  severe, could also adversely impact us by creating deflation in selling prices, which could cause our gross profit  margin to deteriorate.  Changes in energy or raw materials costs can also adversely affect customers; for example,  declines in oil, gas, and coal prices may negatively impact customers operating in those industries and, consequently,  our sales to those customers.", "This responsibility is  demonstrated as we implement greener practices in our operations, promote diversity and continuous learning across  our organization, and continue to focus on and support the well-being of our associates and communities.", "Overall, our  Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) efforts are best summarized as Committed, Responsible and Supportive.", "We  advise customers on energy saving opportunities, including conducting energy audits in critical areas such as motors, belting  and gearing.", "Our innovative fluid power systems and solutions reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase equipment  efficiency, and support cleaner energy sources and emerging electrification technologies.", "Additionally, our specialty flow  control products support power generation infrastructure with cleaner technologies such as steam and geothermal.", "We also  promote product alternatives that are bio-based, non-toxic and / or made from recycled content.", "Our fluid power operations offer products and services primarily used within industrial, off-highway mobile, and  technology applications.  Fluid power products include hydraulic and pneumatic technologies using liquids and gases  to transmit power, typically in smaller spaces than other forms of power transmission.  Hydraulic products offer high  power to weight ratios, high torque at low speeds, and power reliability, while pneumatic products are focused on  lightweight applications in need of speed and precision.  Our fluid power products and solutions are commonly used  for off-highway equipment, heavy industrial equipment and machines at factories, marine and offshore equipment,  factory automation, food processing equipment, packaging operations, and downstream energy process systems.  Operations are supported by a team of certified fluid power specialists, mechanics, technicians, and engineers that  provide technical services ranging from system design and integration, electronic control integration, hydraulic  assemblies, repair and rebuild, manifold design and assembly, customized filtration solutions, software programming  and repair, and hydraulic system retrofits.", "ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS We believe that compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise  relating to environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or  competitive position.", "Volatility in product, energy, and other costs can affect our profitability.  Product manufacturers may adjust  the prices of products we distribute for many reasons, including changes in their costs for raw materials,  components, energy, labor, and tariffs and taxes on imports.  In addition, a portion of our own distribution costs is  composed of fuel for our sales and delivery vehicles, freight, and utility expenses for our facilities.  Our ability to pass  along increases in our product and distribution costs in a timely manner to our customers depends on execution,  market conditions, and contractual limitations.  Failing to pass along price increases timely in an inflationary  environment, or not maintaining sales volume while increasing prices, could significantly reduce our profitability.", "While increases in the cost of products or energy could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if  severe, could also adversely impact us by creating deflation in selling prices, which could cause our gross profit  margin to deteriorate.  Changes in energy or raw materials costs can also adversely affect customers; for example,  declines in oil, gas, and coal prices may negatively impact customers operating in those industries and, consequently,  our sales to those customers.", "This responsibility is  demonstrated as we implement greener practices in our operations, promote diversity and continuous learning across  our organization, and continue to focus on and support the well-being of our associates and communities.", "Overall, our  Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) efforts are best summarized as Committed, Responsible and Supportive.", "We  advise customers on energy saving opportunities, including conducting energy audits in critical areas such as motors, belting  and gearing.", "Our innovative fluid power systems and solutions reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase equipment  efficiency, and support cleaner energy sources and emerging electrification technologies.", "Additionally, our specialty flow  control products support power generation infrastructure with cleaner technologies such as steam and geothermal.", "We also  promote product alternatives that are bio-based, non-toxic and / or made from recycled content.", "Our fluid power operations offer products and services primarily used within industrial, off-highway mobile, and  technology applications.  Fluid power products include hydraulic and pneumatic technologies using liquids and gases  to transmit power, typically in smaller spaces than other forms of power transmission.  Hydraulic products offer high  power to weight ratios, high torque at low speeds, and power reliability, while pneumatic products are focused on  lightweight applications in need of speed and precision.  Our fluid power products and solutions are commonly used  for off-highway equipment, heavy industrial equipment and machines at factories, marine and offshore equipment,  factory automation, food processing equipment, packaging operations, and downstream energy process systems.  Operations are supported by a team of certified fluid power specialists, mechanics, technicians, and engineers that  provide technical services ranging from system design and integration, electronic control integration, hydraulic  assemblies, repair and rebuild, manifold design and assembly, customized filtration solutions, software programming  and repair, and hydraulic system retrofits.", "ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS We believe that compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise  relating to environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or  competitive position.", "Volatility in product, energy, and other costs can affect our profitability.  Product manufacturers may adjust  the prices of products we distribute for many reasons, including changes in their costs for raw materials,  components, energy, labor, and tariffs and taxes on imports.  In addition, a portion of our own distribution costs is  composed of fuel for our sales and delivery vehicles, freight, and utility expenses for our facilities.  Our ability to pass  along increases in our product and distribution costs in a timely manner to our customers depends on execution,  market conditions, and contractual limitations.  Failing to pass along price increases timely in an inflationary  environment, or not maintaining sales volume while increasing prices, could significantly reduce our profitability.", "While increases in the cost of products or energy could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if  severe, could also adversely impact us by creating deflation in selling prices, which could cause our gross profit  margin to deteriorate.  Changes in energy or raw materials costs can also adversely affect customers; for example,  declines in oil, gas, and coal prices may negatively impact customers operating in those industries and, consequently,  our sales to those customers.", "This responsibility is  demonstrated as we implement greener practices in our operations, promote diversity and continuous learning across  our organization, and continue to focus on and support the well-being of our associates and communities.", "Overall, our  Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) efforts are best summarized as Committed, Responsible and Supportive.", "We  advise customers on energy saving opportunities, including conducting energy audits in critical areas such as motors, belting  and gearing.", "Our innovative fluid power systems and solutions reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase equipment  efficiency, and support cleaner energy sources and emerging electrification technologies.", "Additionally, our specialty flow  control products support power generation infrastructure with cleaner technologies such as steam and geothermal.", "We also  promote product alternatives that are bio-based, non-toxic and / or made from recycled content.", "Our fluid power operations offer products and services primarily used within industrial, off-highway mobile, and  technology applications.  Fluid power products include hydraulic and pneumatic technologies using liquids and gases  to transmit power, typically in smaller spaces than other forms of power transmission.  Hydraulic products offer high  power to weight ratios, high torque at low speeds, and power reliability, while pneumatic products are focused on  lightweight applications in need of speed and precision.  Our fluid power products and solutions are commonly used  for off-highway equipment, heavy industrial equipment and machines at factories, marine and offshore equipment,  factory automation, food processing equipment, packaging operations, and downstream energy process systems.  Operations are supported by a team of certified fluid power specialists, mechanics, technicians, and engineers that  provide technical services ranging from system design and integration, electronic control integration, hydraulic  assemblies, repair and rebuild, manifold design and assembly, customized filtration solutions, software programming  and repair, and hydraulic system retrofits.", "ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS We believe that compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise  relating to environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or  competitive position.", "Volatility in product, energy, and other costs can affect our profitability.  Product manufacturers may adjust  the prices of products we distribute for many reasons, including changes in their costs for raw materials,  components, energy, labor, and tariffs and taxes on imports.  In addition, a portion of our own distribution costs is  composed of fuel for our sales and delivery vehicles, freight, and utility expenses for our facilities.  Our ability to pass  along increases in our product and distribution costs in a timely manner to our customers depends on execution,  market conditions, and contractual limitations.  Failing to pass along price increases timely in an inflationary  environment, or not maintaining sales volume while increasing prices, could significantly reduce our profitability.", "While increases in the cost of products or energy could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if  severe, could also adversely impact us by creating deflation in selling prices, which could cause our gross profit  margin to deteriorate.  Changes in energy or raw materials costs can also adversely affect customers; for example,  declines in oil, gas, and coal prices may negatively impact customers operating in those industries and, consequently,  our sales to those customers."], "Social": ["Applied intends that such forward-looking  statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby.", "Fiscal 2021 was characterized by an evolving environment in which we demonstrated and  strengthened our ability to adapt and respond.", "Our performance since then provides  confirmation of this position, including generating record earnings, significant cash flow, and expanding margins through the year,  while further strengthening our balance sheet.", "We are proud and grateful to contribute to society\u2019s recovery!", "We recognize that building on our legacy also means being a responsible corporate citizen.", "The information available via hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K.", "growth in more profitable areas of our business and our history of cost accountability, we see ongoing  opportunity to optimize our margin profile and cash generation in coming years.", "Compensation and Benefits.  We seek to provide competitive compensation and benefits in order to help attract  and retain high quality associates.  In the U.S., Applied offers comprehensive benefits with choices to fit our  associates\u2019 varied needs, including the following: medical, dental, vision, and prescription drug insurance; short and  long-term disability benefits; life insurance plans; Section 401(k) retirement savings plan with company match; paid  vacations and holidays; incentive programs; an employee assistance program; and an educational reimbursement  program.", "We require substantial working capital related to accounts receivable and inventories.  Significant amounts of  inventory are carried to meet customers' delivery requirements.  We generally require payments for sales on account  within 30 days.  Returns are not considered to have a material effect on our working capital requirements.  We  believe these practices are generally consistent among companies in our industry.", "Additional risks not currently known to us, risks that could apply broadly to issuers, or risks that we  currently deem immaterial, may also impact our business and operations.  Risks can also change over time.  Further,  the disclosure of a risk should not be interpreted to imply that the risk has not already materialized.", "Our foreign operations' results are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable  exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements.  Fluctuations in currency exchange rates affect  our operating results and financial position, as well as the comparability of results between financial periods.", "In addition, as a distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors  generally, or us in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts us.  For example, key suppliers could change the  following: the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing brands; the  geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations; supplier purchasing incentive or other support  programs; product purchase or stocking expectations; or the extent to which the suppliers seek to serve end users  directly.", "The purchasing incentives we earn from product suppliers can be impacted if we reduce our purchases in  response to declining customer demand.  Certain product suppliers have historically offered to their distributors,  including us, incentives for purchasing their products.  In addition to market or customer account-specific incentives,  certain suppliers pay incentives to the distributor for attaining specific purchase volumes during a program period.    In some cases, to earn incentives, we must achieve year-over-year growth in purchases with the supplier.  When  demand for our products declines, we may be less inclined to add inventory to take advantage of certain incentive  programs, thereby potentially adversely impacting our profitability.", "proprietary or confidential information, or the breach of customer, supplier, or employee information.  A security  incident involving our systems, or even an inadvertent failure to comply with data privacy and security laws and  regulations, could negatively impact our sales, damage our reputation, and cause us to incur unanticipated legal  liability, remediation costs, and other losses and expenses.", "Further, even if we successfully integrate the acquisitions with our operations, we may not be able to realize cost  savings, sales, profit levels, or other benefits that we anticipate from these acquisitions, either as to amount or in the  time frame we expect.  Our ability to realize anticipated benefits may be affected by a number of factors, including  the following: our ability to achieve planned operating results, to reduce duplicative expenses and inventory  effectively, and to consolidate facilities; economic and market factors; the incurrence of significant integration costs  or charges in order to achieve those benefits; our ability to retain key product supplier authorizations, customer  relationships, and employees; our ability to address competitive, distribution, and regulatory challenges arising from  entering into new markets (geographic, product, service, end-industry, or otherwise), especially those in which we  may have limited or no direct experience; and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired  company.  In addition, acquisitions could place significant demand on administrative, operational, and financial  resources.", "Our indebtedness entails debt service commitments that could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our  obligations and could limit or reduce our flexibility.  As of June 30, 2021, we had total debt obligations  outstanding of $829.4 million.  Our ability to service our debt and fund our other liquidity needs will depend on our  ability to generate cash in the future.  Our debt commitments may (i) require us to dedicate a substantial portion of  our cash flows from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund  planned capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase our shares, complete other acquisitions or strategic  initiatives, and other general corporate purposes; (ii) limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future  (either at all or on satisfactory terms) to enable us to react to changes in our business or execute our growth  strategies; and (iii) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have lower  levels of indebtedness.  Additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt  could result in an event of default.  Any of the foregoing events or circumstances relating to our indebtedness may  adversely affect our business, financial position, or results of operations and may cause our stock price to decline.", "Although the credit market turmoil of a decade ago did not have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity or  borrowing costs, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt increased.  If credit market  volatility were to return, obtaining additional or replacement financing could be more difficult and the cost of issuing  new debt or replacing a credit facility could be higher than under our current facilities.  Tight credit conditions could  limit our ability to finance acquisitions on terms acceptable to us.", "Our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may be insufficient to allow us to  accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our financial statements to  become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  We require  effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our  financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.  Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect  misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or  overriding of controls, or fraud.  Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance  with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements.  If we cannot provide reasonable  assurance with respect to our financial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our financial statements could be  materially misstated, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.", "If we are not able to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to  implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business,  financial condition and operating results could be harmed.  Any material weakness could affect investor confidence  in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements.  As a result, our ability to obtain any additional  financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected.  This, in turn, could  materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and the market value of our stock and require us to  incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures.  In addition, perceptions of the  Company among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts, and others could also be adversely  affected.", "Goodwill, long-lived, and other intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become  impaired.  We review goodwill, long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identifiable  amortizing intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the  carrying amounts are not recoverable.  Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include  significant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, significant  underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset  before the end of its estimated useful life.  In 2021, we recorded a $49.5 million non-cash charge for the impairment  of certain intangible, lease, and fixed assets.", "As of June 30, 2021, we had remaining $560.1 million of goodwill and $279.6 million of other intangible assets,  net.  We assess all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment on a reporting unit basis.  The techniques used  in our qualitative assessment and goodwill impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that  are subject to change.  Although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and reflect market  conditions forecasted at the assessment date, any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market  conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods.", "We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method by which LIBOR is  determined.  As of June 30, 2021, we had approximately $738.6 million of aggregate consolidated indebtedness  that was indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate (\u201cLIBOR\u201d).  As of June 30, 2021, approximately $420.0  million of this variable rate debt was converted to a fixed rate through an interest rate swap.  The swap agreement,  entered into in January 2019 and subsequently amended and extended, is indexed to LIBOR.  The U.K.", "However, in March 2021, the FCA proposed to extend publication of the most  commonly used U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors, including those tenors most relevant to us, through June 30, 2023.  Any of  our LIBOR-based borrowings that extend beyond June 30, 2023 will need to be converted to a replacement rate  prior to that date.", "Regulators and industry groups have identified recommended alternatives for certain reference  rates, but there continues to be considerable uncertainty about what benchmark or benchmarks will replace LIBOR  and when that will occur.  The full impact of the transition away from LIBOR remains unclear, but the transition and  related changes may have a material adverse impact on the availability of financing and on our financing costs.", "We are subject to legal, regulatory, and litigation risks, which may have a material adverse effect on our  business.", "We are subject to a wide array of laws and regulations.  Changes in the legal and regulatory environment  in which we operate, including with respect to taxes, international trade, employment laws, and data privacy, could  adversely and materially affect the Company.", "In addition, from time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings that arise from our business.   These may, for example, relate to product liability claims, commercial disputes, personal injuries, or employment- related matters.  In addition, we could face claims or additional costs arising from our compliance with regulatory  requirements, including those relating to the following: our status as a public company; our government contracts;  tax compliance; our engagement in international trade; and our collection, storage, or transmission of personal data.", "We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities  associated with our business.  The policies are subject to limits, deductibles, and exclusions that result in our  retention of a level of risk on a self-insured basis.   The defense and ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings or inquiries may result in higher operating  expenses, the inability to participate in existing or future government contacts, or other adverse consequences,  which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.", "Applied and/or one of its subsidiaries is a party to pending legal proceedings with respect to product liability,  commercial, personal injury, employment, and other matters.  Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of  these proceedings or the range of reasonably possible loss, we do not expect, based on circumstances currently  known, that the ultimate resolution of any of these proceedings will have, either individually or in the aggregate, a  material adverse effect on Applied's consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.", "Our earnings per share was $3.68 in fiscal 2021 versus $0.62 in fiscal year 2020.", "This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated financial statements for  the years ended June\u00a030, 2021 and 2020.  For the comparison of the years ended June\u00a030, 2020 and 2019, see the  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2020  Annual Report on Form 10-K.", "Our primary source of capital is cash flow from operations, supplemented as necessary by bank borrowings or other  sources of debt.  At June\u00a030, 2021 we had total debt obligations outstanding of $829.4 million compared to $935.3  million at June\u00a030, 2020.  Management expects that our existing cash, cash equivalents, funds available under our  debt facilities, and cash provided from operations, will be sufficient to finance normal working capital needs in each  of the countries we operate in, payment of dividends, acquisitions, investments in properties, facilities and  equipment, debt service, and the purchase of additional Company common stock.  Management also believes that  additional long-term debt and line of credit financing could be obtained based on the Company\u2019s credit standing  and financial strength.", "The increase in dividends over the year is the result of regular increases in our dividend payout rates.  We paid  dividends of $1.30 and $1.26 per share in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  We expect capital expenditures for fiscal 2022 to be in the $18.0\u00a0million to $20.0 million range, primarily consisting  of capital associated with additional information technology equipment and infrastructure investments.", "The Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company\u2019s stock.  These purchases may  be made in open market and negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending upon market conditions.    At June\u00a030, 2021, we had authorization to purchase an additional 464,618 shares.", "The Company repurchased 400,000 shares in fiscal 2021 at an average price per share of $100.22.  In fiscal 2020 no  shares were repurchased and in 2019, we repurchased 192,082 shares of the Company\u2019s common stock at an  average price per share of $58.10.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August\u00a031, 2021.  In March 2021, the Company amended the AR Securitization Facility to  expand the eligible receivables, which increased the maximum availability to $250.0 million and increased the drawn  fees on the AR Securitization Facility to 0.98% per year.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings  of our customers, customer concentration levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being  transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be able to fully access the $250.0 million of funding  available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s  borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The  Company uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively  reducing borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR.  The interest rate  on the AR Securitization Facility as of June\u00a030, 2021 and June\u00a030, 2020 was 1.20% and 1.07%, respectively.  The  termination date of the AR Securitization is now in March 2024.", "On a consolidated basis, DSO was 51.9 at June\u00a030, 2021 versus 55.9 at June\u00a030, 2020.  Approximately 3.0% of our  accounts receivable balances are more than 90 days past due at June\u00a030, 2021 compared to 4.6% at June\u00a030, 2020.  On an overall basis, our provision for losses from uncollected receivables represents 0.20% of our sales for the year  ended June\u00a030, 2021, compared to 0.43% of sales for the year ended June\u00a030, 2020.  The decrease primarily relates  to strong cash collections and an improvement in the overall credit profile of the accounts receivable portfolio in the  current year, compared to provisions recorded in the prior year for customer credit deterioration and bankruptcies  primarily in the U.S. and Mexican operations of the Service Center Based Distribution segment.  Historically, this  percentage is around 0.10% to 0.15%.  Management believes the overall receivables aging and provision for losses  on uncollected receivables are at reasonable levels.", "Inventories are valued using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories and the average cost method for  foreign inventories.  Management uses an inventory turnover ratio to monitor and evaluate inventory.  Management  calculates this ratio on an annual as well as a quarterly basis and uses inventory valued at average costs.  The  annualized inventory turnover (using average costs) for the year ended June\u00a030, 2021 was 4.3 versus 3.8 for the year  ended June\u00a030, 2020.  We believe our inventory turnover ratio in fiscal 2022 will be slightly better than our fiscal  2021 levels.", "Purchase orders for inventory and other goods and services are not included in our estimates as we are unable to  aggregate the amount of such purchase orders that represent enforceable and legally binding agreements specifying  all significant terms.  The previous table includes the gross liability for unrecognized income tax benefits including  interest and penalties in the \u201cOther\u201d column as the Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate regarding the  timing of cash settlements, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.", "Inventories are valued at the average cost method, using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories, and  the average cost method for foreign inventories.  We adopted the link chain dollar value LIFO method for accounting  for U.S. inventories in fiscal 1974.  Approximately 19.8% of our domestic inventory dollars relate to LIFO layers  added in the 1970s.  The excess of average cost over LIFO cost is $151.9 million as reflected in our consolidated  balance sheet at June\u00a030, 2021.  The Company maintains five LIFO pools based on the following product groupings:  bearings, power transmission products, rubber products, fluid power products and other products.", "We evaluate the collectibility of trade accounts receivable based on a combination of factors.  Initially, we estimate  an allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net sales based on historical bad debt experience.  This initial  estimate is adjusted based on recent trends of certain customers and industries estimated to be a greater credit risk,  trends within the entire customer pool and changes in the overall aging of accounts receivable.  While we have a  large customer base that is geographically dispersed, a general economic downturn in any of the industry segments  in which we operate could result in higher than expected defaults, and therefore, the need to revise estimates for  bad debts.  Accounts are written off against the allowance when it becomes evident that collection will not occur.", "As of June\u00a030, 2021 and 2020, our allowance for doubtful accounts was 3.1% and 2.9% of gross receivables,  respectively.  Our provision for losses on accounts receivable was $6.5 million, $14.1 million and $4.1 million in fiscal  2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.", "We evaluate goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually as of January 1, and whenever an event  occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting  unit is less than its carrying amount.  Events or circumstances that may result in an impairment review include  changes in macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial  performance, other relevant entity-specific events, specific events affecting the reporting unit or sustained decrease  in share price.  Each year, the Company may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is  more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.  If impairment is indicated in  the qualitative assessment, or, if management elects to initially perform a quantitative assessment of goodwill, the  impairment test uses a one-step approach.  The fair value of a reporting unit is compared with its carrying amount,  including goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit  is not impaired.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge would be", "Goodwill on our consolidated financial statements relates to both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and  the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Company has eight (8) reporting units for which an annual goodwill  impairment assessment was performed as of January 1, 2021.\u00a0 The Company concluded that seven (7) of the  reporting units\u2019 fair values exceeded their carrying amounts by at least 25% as of January 1, 2021.  The fair value of  the final reporting unit, which is comprised of the FCX Performance Inc. (FCX) operations, exceeded its carrying value  by 14%.  The FCX reporting unit has a goodwill balance of $309.0 million as of June\u00a030, 2021.", "We discuss certain of these matters and other risk factors more fully throughout our Form 10-K, as well as other of  our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.", "Our market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as changes in interest rates.   We occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use  derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.", "Because we operate throughout North America, Australia and New Zealand and approximately 14.0% of our fiscal  year 2021 net sales were generated outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates can impact our  financial position, results of operations and competitive position.  The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are  translated into their U.S. dollar equivalents at end-of-period exchange rates for assets and liabilities, while income  and expenses are translated at average monthly exchange rates.  Translation gains and losses are components of  other comprehensive income\u00a0as reported in the statements of consolidated comprehensive income.  Transaction  gains and losses arising from fluctuations in currency exchange rates on transactions denominated in currencies  other than the functional currency are recognized in the statements of consolidated income as a component of other  income, net.  Applied does not currently hedge the net investments in our foreign operations.", "Our primary exposure to interest rate risk results from our outstanding debt obligations with variable interest rates.  The levels of fees and interest charged on our various debt facilities are based upon leverage levels and market  interest rates.", "Our variable interest rate debt facilities outstanding include our five-year credit facility, which provides for a revolving  credit facility with a capacity of up to $250.0 million in borrowings with no balance outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021, a  $780.0 million term loan, of which $550.3 million was outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021, and a $188.3 million trade  receivable securitization facility, all of which was outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021.  In January 2019, the Company  entered into an interest rate swap on $463.0 million of the Company\u2019s U.S. dollar-denominated unsecured variable  rate debt.  The notional amount of the interest rate swap was $420.0 million as of June\u00a030, 2021.  The interest rate  swap effectively converts a portion of the floating rate interest payment into a fixed rate interest payment.  The  Company designated the interest rate swap as a pay-fixed, receive-floating interest rate swap instrument and is  accounting for this derivative as a cash flow hedge.  Fixed interest rate debt facilities include $90.0 million  outstanding under our unsecured shelf facility agreement, as well as $0.8 million of assumed debt from the purchase  of our headquarters facility.  We had total average variable interest rate bank borrowings of $739.3 million during  fiscal 2021.  The impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the interest rates on our average variable interest rate  bank borrowings (not considering the impact of our interest rate swap) would have resulted in a $7.4 million  increase in interest expense.  Due to the interest rate swap, the impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the  variable interest rate would have reduced net cash interest paid by $4.2 million.  Changes in market interest rates  would also impact interest rates on these facilities.", "For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the \u201cLiquidity and Capital Resources\u201d section of  \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\u201d in Item 7 and notes 6 and  7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  That information is also incorporated here by reference.  In  addition, see Item 1A, \u201cRisk Factors,\u201d for additional risk factors relating to our business.", "REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM", "These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an  opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits.  We are a public accounting firm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.", "We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material  misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.  Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material  misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to  those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the  financial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made  by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.  We believe that our audits  provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial  statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to  accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging,  subjective, or complex judgments.  The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on  the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing  a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.", "Our audit procedures related to the forecasts of future revenues and EBITDA (\u201cforecasts\u201d), and the selection of the  discount rate and selection of multiples applied to management\u2019s forecasted revenues and EBITDA estimates (\u201cmarket  multiples\u201d) for the FCX reporting unit included the following, among others: \u2022 We tested the effectiveness of controls over management\u2019s goodwill impairment evaluation, such as controls related to management\u2019s forecasts and the selection of the discount rate and market multiples used. \u2022 We evaluated management\u2019s ability to accurately forecast by comparing actual results to management\u2019s historical forecasts. \u2022 We evaluated the reasonableness of management\u2019s forecasts by comparing the forecasts to (1) historical results, (2) internal communications to management and the Board of Directors, and (3) forecasted information included in industry reports for the various industries the reporting unit operates within. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the discount rate, including testing the underlying source information and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, and developing a range of independent estimates and comparing those to the discount rate selected by management. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the market multiples by evaluating the selected comparable publicly traded companies and the adjustments made for differences in growth prospects and risk profiles between the reporting unit and the comparable publicly traded companies.  We tested the underlying source information and mathematical accuracy of the calculations. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the fair value of the reporting unit based upon reconciling the fair value of the reporting unit to the market capitalization of the Company.", "We have served as the Company's auditor since 1966.", "The difference between the opening and closing balances of the Company's contract assets primarily results from  the timing difference between the Company's performance and when the customer is billed.", "Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment when changes in conditions indicate  carrying value may not be recoverable.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August\u00a031, 2021.  On March 26, 2021, the Company amended the AR Securitization  Facility to expand the eligible receivables, which increased the maximum availability to $250,000 and increased the  drawn fees on the AR Securitization Facility to 0.98% per year.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit  ratings of our customers, customer concentration levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being  transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be able to fully access the $250,000 of funding available  under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing  capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The Company  uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively reducing  borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR.  The interest rate on the AR  Securitization Facility as of June\u00a030, 2021 and June\u00a030, 2020 was 1.20% and 1.07%, respectively.  The termination  date of the AR Securitization is now March\u00a026, 2024.", "We have evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to June\u00a030, 2021 through the date the financial  statements were issued.", "CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING", "Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting None.", "We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries  (the \u201cCompany\u201d) as of June\u00a030, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  In our opinion, the  Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of June\u00a030, 2021,  based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United  States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended June\u00a030, 2021, of the Company  and our report dated August 17, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements  and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's adoption of a new accounting standard related to  leases.", "The Company\u2019s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its  assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management\u2019s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the  Company\u2019s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We are a public accounting firm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was  maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial  reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered  necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "Applied has a code of ethics, named the Code of Business Ethics, that applies to our employees, including our  principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer.  The Code of Business Ethics is  posted via hyperlink at the investor relations area of our www.applied.com website.  In addition, amendments to  and waivers from the Code of Business Ethics will be disclosed promptly at the same location.", "Pursuant to the requirements of Section\u00a013 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this  report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.", "Applied intends that such forward-looking  statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby.", "Fiscal 2021 was characterized by an evolving environment in which we demonstrated and  strengthened our ability to adapt and respond.", "Our performance since then provides  confirmation of this position, including generating record earnings, significant cash flow, and expanding margins through the year,  while further strengthening our balance sheet.", "We are proud and grateful to contribute to society\u2019s recovery!", "We recognize that building on our legacy also means being a responsible corporate citizen.", "The information available via hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K.", "growth in more profitable areas of our business and our history of cost accountability, we see ongoing  opportunity to optimize our margin profile and cash generation in coming years.", "Compensation and Benefits.  We seek to provide competitive compensation and benefits in order to help attract  and retain high quality associates.  In the U.S., Applied offers comprehensive benefits with choices to fit our  associates\u2019 varied needs, including the following: medical, dental, vision, and prescription drug insurance; short and  long-term disability benefits; life insurance plans; Section 401(k) retirement savings plan with company match; paid  vacations and holidays; incentive programs; an employee assistance program; and an educational reimbursement  program.", "We require substantial working capital related to accounts receivable and inventories.  Significant amounts of  inventory are carried to meet customers' delivery requirements.  We generally require payments for sales on account  within 30 days.  Returns are not considered to have a material effect on our working capital requirements.  We  believe these practices are generally consistent among companies in our industry.", "Additional risks not currently known to us, risks that could apply broadly to issuers, or risks that we  currently deem immaterial, may also impact our business and operations.  Risks can also change over time.  Further,  the disclosure of a risk should not be interpreted to imply that the risk has not already materialized.", "Our foreign operations' results are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable  exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements.  Fluctuations in currency exchange rates affect  our operating results and financial position, as well as the comparability of results between financial periods.", "In addition, as a distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors  generally, or us in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts us.  For example, key suppliers could change the  following: the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing brands; the  geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations; supplier purchasing incentive or other support  programs; product purchase or stocking expectations; or the extent to which the suppliers seek to serve end users  directly.", "The purchasing incentives we earn from product suppliers can be impacted if we reduce our purchases in  response to declining customer demand.  Certain product suppliers have historically offered to their distributors,  including us, incentives for purchasing their products.  In addition to market or customer account-specific incentives,  certain suppliers pay incentives to the distributor for attaining specific purchase volumes during a program period.    In some cases, to earn incentives, we must achieve year-over-year growth in purchases with the supplier.  When  demand for our products declines, we may be less inclined to add inventory to take advantage of certain incentive  programs, thereby potentially adversely impacting our profitability.", "proprietary or confidential information, or the breach of customer, supplier, or employee information.  A security  incident involving our systems, or even an inadvertent failure to comply with data privacy and security laws and  regulations, could negatively impact our sales, damage our reputation, and cause us to incur unanticipated legal  liability, remediation costs, and other losses and expenses.", "Further, even if we successfully integrate the acquisitions with our operations, we may not be able to realize cost  savings, sales, profit levels, or other benefits that we anticipate from these acquisitions, either as to amount or in the  time frame we expect.  Our ability to realize anticipated benefits may be affected by a number of factors, including  the following: our ability to achieve planned operating results, to reduce duplicative expenses and inventory  effectively, and to consolidate facilities; economic and market factors; the incurrence of significant integration costs  or charges in order to achieve those benefits; our ability to retain key product supplier authorizations, customer  relationships, and employees; our ability to address competitive, distribution, and regulatory challenges arising from  entering into new markets (geographic, product, service, end-industry, or otherwise), especially those in which we  may have limited or no direct experience; and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired  company.  In addition, acquisitions could place significant demand on administrative, operational, and financial  resources.", "Our indebtedness entails debt service commitments that could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our  obligations and could limit or reduce our flexibility.  As of June 30, 2021, we had total debt obligations  outstanding of $829.4 million.  Our ability to service our debt and fund our other liquidity needs will depend on our  ability to generate cash in the future.  Our debt commitments may (i) require us to dedicate a substantial portion of  our cash flows from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund  planned capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase our shares, complete other acquisitions or strategic  initiatives, and other general corporate purposes; (ii) limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future  (either at all or on satisfactory terms) to enable us to react to changes in our business or execute our growth  strategies; and (iii) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have lower  levels of indebtedness.  Additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt  could result in an event of default.  Any of the foregoing events or circumstances relating to our indebtedness may  adversely affect our business, financial position, or results of operations and may cause our stock price to decline.", "Although the credit market turmoil of a decade ago did not have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity or  borrowing costs, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt increased.  If credit market  volatility were to return, obtaining additional or replacement financing could be more difficult and the cost of issuing  new debt or replacing a credit facility could be higher than under our current facilities.  Tight credit conditions could  limit our ability to finance acquisitions on terms acceptable to us.", "Our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may be insufficient to allow us to  accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our financial statements to  become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  We require  effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our  financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.  Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect  misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or  overriding of controls, or fraud.  Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance  with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements.  If we cannot provide reasonable  assurance with respect to our financial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our financial statements could be  materially misstated, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.", "If we are not able to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to  implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business,  financial condition and operating results could be harmed.  Any material weakness could affect investor confidence  in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements.  As a result, our ability to obtain any additional  financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected.  This, in turn, could  materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and the market value of our stock and require us to  incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures.  In addition, perceptions of the  Company among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts, and others could also be adversely  affected.", "Goodwill, long-lived, and other intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become  impaired.  We review goodwill, long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identifiable  amortizing intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the  carrying amounts are not recoverable.  Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include  significant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, significant  underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset  before the end of its estimated useful life.  In 2021, we recorded a $49.5 million non-cash charge for the impairment  of certain intangible, lease, and fixed assets.", "As of June 30, 2021, we had remaining $560.1 million of goodwill and $279.6 million of other intangible assets,  net.  We assess all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment on a reporting unit basis.  The techniques used  in our qualitative assessment and goodwill impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that  are subject to change.  Although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and reflect market  conditions forecasted at the assessment date, any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market  conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods.", "We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method by which LIBOR is  determined.  As of June 30, 2021, we had approximately $738.6 million of aggregate consolidated indebtedness  that was indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate (\u201cLIBOR\u201d).  As of June 30, 2021, approximately $420.0  million of this variable rate debt was converted to a fixed rate through an interest rate swap.  The swap agreement,  entered into in January 2019 and subsequently amended and extended, is indexed to LIBOR.  The U.K.", "However, in March 2021, the FCA proposed to extend publication of the most  commonly used U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors, including those tenors most relevant to us, through June 30, 2023.  Any of  our LIBOR-based borrowings that extend beyond June 30, 2023 will need to be converted to a replacement rate  prior to that date.", "Regulators and industry groups have identified recommended alternatives for certain reference  rates, but there continues to be considerable uncertainty about what benchmark or benchmarks will replace LIBOR  and when that will occur.  The full impact of the transition away from LIBOR remains unclear, but the transition and  related changes may have a material adverse impact on the availability of financing and on our financing costs.", "We are subject to legal, regulatory, and litigation risks, which may have a material adverse effect on our  business.", "We are subject to a wide array of laws and regulations.  Changes in the legal and regulatory environment  in which we operate, including with respect to taxes, international trade, employment laws, and data privacy, could  adversely and materially affect the Company.", "In addition, from time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings that arise from our business.   These may, for example, relate to product liability claims, commercial disputes, personal injuries, or employment- related matters.  In addition, we could face claims or additional costs arising from our compliance with regulatory  requirements, including those relating to the following: our status as a public company; our government contracts;  tax compliance; our engagement in international trade; and our collection, storage, or transmission of personal data.", "We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities  associated with our business.  The policies are subject to limits, deductibles, and exclusions that result in our  retention of a level of risk on a self-insured basis.   The defense and ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings or inquiries may result in higher operating  expenses, the inability to participate in existing or future government contacts, or other adverse consequences,  which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.", "Applied and/or one of its subsidiaries is a party to pending legal proceedings with respect to product liability,  commercial, personal injury, employment, and other matters.  Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of  these proceedings or the range of reasonably possible loss, we do not expect, based on circumstances currently  known, that the ultimate resolution of any of these proceedings will have, either individually or in the aggregate, a  material adverse effect on Applied's consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.", "Our earnings per share was $3.68 in fiscal 2021 versus $0.62 in fiscal year 2020.", "This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated financial statements for  the years ended June\u00a030, 2021 and 2020.  For the comparison of the years ended June\u00a030, 2020 and 2019, see the  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2020  Annual Report on Form 10-K.", "Our primary source of capital is cash flow from operations, supplemented as necessary by bank borrowings or other  sources of debt.  At June\u00a030, 2021 we had total debt obligations outstanding of $829.4 million compared to $935.3  million at June\u00a030, 2020.  Management expects that our existing cash, cash equivalents, funds available under our  debt facilities, and cash provided from operations, will be sufficient to finance normal working capital needs in each  of the countries we operate in, payment of dividends, acquisitions, investments in properties, facilities and  equipment, debt service, and the purchase of additional Company common stock.  Management also believes that  additional long-term debt and line of credit financing could be obtained based on the Company\u2019s credit standing  and financial strength.", "The increase in dividends over the year is the result of regular increases in our dividend payout rates.  We paid  dividends of $1.30 and $1.26 per share in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  We expect capital expenditures for fiscal 2022 to be in the $18.0\u00a0million to $20.0 million range, primarily consisting  of capital associated with additional information technology equipment and infrastructure investments.", "The Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company\u2019s stock.  These purchases may  be made in open market and negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending upon market conditions.    At June\u00a030, 2021, we had authorization to purchase an additional 464,618 shares.", "The Company repurchased 400,000 shares in fiscal 2021 at an average price per share of $100.22.  In fiscal 2020 no  shares were repurchased and in 2019, we repurchased 192,082 shares of the Company\u2019s common stock at an  average price per share of $58.10.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August\u00a031, 2021.  In March 2021, the Company amended the AR Securitization Facility to  expand the eligible receivables, which increased the maximum availability to $250.0 million and increased the drawn  fees on the AR Securitization Facility to 0.98% per year.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings  of our customers, customer concentration levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being  transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be able to fully access the $250.0 million of funding  available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s  borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The  Company uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively  reducing borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR.  The interest rate  on the AR Securitization Facility as of June\u00a030, 2021 and June\u00a030, 2020 was 1.20% and 1.07%, respectively.  The  termination date of the AR Securitization is now in March 2024.", "On a consolidated basis, DSO was 51.9 at June\u00a030, 2021 versus 55.9 at June\u00a030, 2020.  Approximately 3.0% of our  accounts receivable balances are more than 90 days past due at June\u00a030, 2021 compared to 4.6% at June\u00a030, 2020.  On an overall basis, our provision for losses from uncollected receivables represents 0.20% of our sales for the year  ended June\u00a030, 2021, compared to 0.43% of sales for the year ended June\u00a030, 2020.  The decrease primarily relates  to strong cash collections and an improvement in the overall credit profile of the accounts receivable portfolio in the  current year, compared to provisions recorded in the prior year for customer credit deterioration and bankruptcies  primarily in the U.S. and Mexican operations of the Service Center Based Distribution segment.  Historically, this  percentage is around 0.10% to 0.15%.  Management believes the overall receivables aging and provision for losses  on uncollected receivables are at reasonable levels.", "Inventories are valued using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories and the average cost method for  foreign inventories.  Management uses an inventory turnover ratio to monitor and evaluate inventory.  Management  calculates this ratio on an annual as well as a quarterly basis and uses inventory valued at average costs.  The  annualized inventory turnover (using average costs) for the year ended June\u00a030, 2021 was 4.3 versus 3.8 for the year  ended June\u00a030, 2020.  We believe our inventory turnover ratio in fiscal 2022 will be slightly better than our fiscal  2021 levels.", "Purchase orders for inventory and other goods and services are not included in our estimates as we are unable to  aggregate the amount of such purchase orders that represent enforceable and legally binding agreements specifying  all significant terms.  The previous table includes the gross liability for unrecognized income tax benefits including  interest and penalties in the \u201cOther\u201d column as the Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate regarding the  timing of cash settlements, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.", "Inventories are valued at the average cost method, using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories, and  the average cost method for foreign inventories.  We adopted the link chain dollar value LIFO method for accounting  for U.S. inventories in fiscal 1974.  Approximately 19.8% of our domestic inventory dollars relate to LIFO layers  added in the 1970s.  The excess of average cost over LIFO cost is $151.9 million as reflected in our consolidated  balance sheet at June\u00a030, 2021.  The Company maintains five LIFO pools based on the following product groupings:  bearings, power transmission products, rubber products, fluid power products and other products.", "We evaluate the collectibility of trade accounts receivable based on a combination of factors.  Initially, we estimate  an allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net sales based on historical bad debt experience.  This initial  estimate is adjusted based on recent trends of certain customers and industries estimated to be a greater credit risk,  trends within the entire customer pool and changes in the overall aging of accounts receivable.  While we have a  large customer base that is geographically dispersed, a general economic downturn in any of the industry segments  in which we operate could result in higher than expected defaults, and therefore, the need to revise estimates for  bad debts.  Accounts are written off against the allowance when it becomes evident that collection will not occur.", "As of June\u00a030, 2021 and 2020, our allowance for doubtful accounts was 3.1% and 2.9% of gross receivables,  respectively.  Our provision for losses on accounts receivable was $6.5 million, $14.1 million and $4.1 million in fiscal  2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.", "We evaluate goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually as of January 1, and whenever an event  occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting  unit is less than its carrying amount.  Events or circumstances that may result in an impairment review include  changes in macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial  performance, other relevant entity-specific events, specific events affecting the reporting unit or sustained decrease  in share price.  Each year, the Company may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is  more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.  If impairment is indicated in  the qualitative assessment, or, if management elects to initially perform a quantitative assessment of goodwill, the  impairment test uses a one-step approach.  The fair value of a reporting unit is compared with its carrying amount,  including goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit  is not impaired.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge would be", "Goodwill on our consolidated financial statements relates to both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and  the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Company has eight (8) reporting units for which an annual goodwill  impairment assessment was performed as of January 1, 2021.\u00a0 The Company concluded that seven (7) of the  reporting units\u2019 fair values exceeded their carrying amounts by at least 25% as of January 1, 2021.  The fair value of  the final reporting unit, which is comprised of the FCX Performance Inc. (FCX) operations, exceeded its carrying value  by 14%.  The FCX reporting unit has a goodwill balance of $309.0 million as of June\u00a030, 2021.", "We discuss certain of these matters and other risk factors more fully throughout our Form 10-K, as well as other of  our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.", "Our market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as changes in interest rates.   We occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use  derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.", "Because we operate throughout North America, Australia and New Zealand and approximately 14.0% of our fiscal  year 2021 net sales were generated outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates can impact our  financial position, results of operations and competitive position.  The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are  translated into their U.S. dollar equivalents at end-of-period exchange rates for assets and liabilities, while income  and expenses are translated at average monthly exchange rates.  Translation gains and losses are components of  other comprehensive income\u00a0as reported in the statements of consolidated comprehensive income.  Transaction  gains and losses arising from fluctuations in currency exchange rates on transactions denominated in currencies  other than the functional currency are recognized in the statements of consolidated income as a component of other  income, net.  Applied does not currently hedge the net investments in our foreign operations.", "Our primary exposure to interest rate risk results from our outstanding debt obligations with variable interest rates.  The levels of fees and interest charged on our various debt facilities are based upon leverage levels and market  interest rates.", "Our variable interest rate debt facilities outstanding include our five-year credit facility, which provides for a revolving  credit facility with a capacity of up to $250.0 million in borrowings with no balance outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021, a  $780.0 million term loan, of which $550.3 million was outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021, and a $188.3 million trade  receivable securitization facility, all of which was outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021.  In January 2019, the Company  entered into an interest rate swap on $463.0 million of the Company\u2019s U.S. dollar-denominated unsecured variable  rate debt.  The notional amount of the interest rate swap was $420.0 million as of June\u00a030, 2021.  The interest rate  swap effectively converts a portion of the floating rate interest payment into a fixed rate interest payment.  The  Company designated the interest rate swap as a pay-fixed, receive-floating interest rate swap instrument and is  accounting for this derivative as a cash flow hedge.  Fixed interest rate debt facilities include $90.0 million  outstanding under our unsecured shelf facility agreement, as well as $0.8 million of assumed debt from the purchase  of our headquarters facility.  We had total average variable interest rate bank borrowings of $739.3 million during  fiscal 2021.  The impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the interest rates on our average variable interest rate  bank borrowings (not considering the impact of our interest rate swap) would have resulted in a $7.4 million  increase in interest expense.  Due to the interest rate swap, the impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the  variable interest rate would have reduced net cash interest paid by $4.2 million.  Changes in market interest rates  would also impact interest rates on these facilities.", "For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the \u201cLiquidity and Capital Resources\u201d section of  \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\u201d in Item 7 and notes 6 and  7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  That information is also incorporated here by reference.  In  addition, see Item 1A, \u201cRisk Factors,\u201d for additional risk factors relating to our business.", "REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM", "These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an  opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits.  We are a public accounting firm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.", "We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material  misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.  Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material  misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to  those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the  financial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made  by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.  We believe that our audits  provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial  statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to  accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging,  subjective, or complex judgments.  The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on  the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing  a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.", "Our audit procedures related to the forecasts of future revenues and EBITDA (\u201cforecasts\u201d), and the selection of the  discount rate and selection of multiples applied to management\u2019s forecasted revenues and EBITDA estimates (\u201cmarket  multiples\u201d) for the FCX reporting unit included the following, among others: \u2022 We tested the effectiveness of controls over management\u2019s goodwill impairment evaluation, such as controls related to management\u2019s forecasts and the selection of the discount rate and market multiples used. \u2022 We evaluated management\u2019s ability to accurately forecast by comparing actual results to management\u2019s historical forecasts. \u2022 We evaluated the reasonableness of management\u2019s forecasts by comparing the forecasts to (1) historical results, (2) internal communications to management and the Board of Directors, and (3) forecasted information included in industry reports for the various industries the reporting unit operates within. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the discount rate, including testing the underlying source information and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, and developing a range of independent estimates and comparing those to the discount rate selected by management. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the market multiples by evaluating the selected comparable publicly traded companies and the adjustments made for differences in growth prospects and risk profiles between the reporting unit and the comparable publicly traded companies.  We tested the underlying source information and mathematical accuracy of the calculations. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the fair value of the reporting unit based upon reconciling the fair value of the reporting unit to the market capitalization of the Company.", "We have served as the Company's auditor since 1966.", "The difference between the opening and closing balances of the Company's contract assets primarily results from  the timing difference between the Company's performance and when the customer is billed.", "Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment when changes in conditions indicate  carrying value may not be recoverable.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August\u00a031, 2021.  On March 26, 2021, the Company amended the AR Securitization  Facility to expand the eligible receivables, which increased the maximum availability to $250,000 and increased the  drawn fees on the AR Securitization Facility to 0.98% per year.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit  ratings of our customers, customer concentration levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being  transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be able to fully access the $250,000 of funding available  under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing  capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The Company  uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively reducing  borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR.  The interest rate on the AR  Securitization Facility as of June\u00a030, 2021 and June\u00a030, 2020 was 1.20% and 1.07%, respectively.  The termination  date of the AR Securitization is now March\u00a026, 2024.", "We have evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to June\u00a030, 2021 through the date the financial  statements were issued.", "CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING", "Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting None.", "We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries  (the \u201cCompany\u201d) as of June\u00a030, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  In our opinion, the  Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of June\u00a030, 2021,  based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United  States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended June\u00a030, 2021, of the Company  and our report dated August 17, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements  and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's adoption of a new accounting standard related to  leases.", "The Company\u2019s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its  assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management\u2019s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the  Company\u2019s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We are a public accounting firm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was  maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial  reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered  necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "Applied has a code of ethics, named the Code of Business Ethics, that applies to our employees, including our  principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer.  The Code of Business Ethics is  posted via hyperlink at the investor relations area of our www.applied.com website.  In addition, amendments to  and waivers from the Code of Business Ethics will be disclosed promptly at the same location.", "Pursuant to the requirements of Section\u00a013 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this  report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.", "Applied intends that such forward-looking  statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby.", "Fiscal 2021 was characterized by an evolving environment in which we demonstrated and  strengthened our ability to adapt and respond.", "Our performance since then provides  confirmation of this position, including generating record earnings, significant cash flow, and expanding margins through the year,  while further strengthening our balance sheet.", "We are proud and grateful to contribute to society\u2019s recovery!", "We recognize that building on our legacy also means being a responsible corporate citizen.", "The information available via hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K.", "growth in more profitable areas of our business and our history of cost accountability, we see ongoing  opportunity to optimize our margin profile and cash generation in coming years.", "Compensation and Benefits.  We seek to provide competitive compensation and benefits in order to help attract  and retain high quality associates.  In the U.S., Applied offers comprehensive benefits with choices to fit our  associates\u2019 varied needs, including the following: medical, dental, vision, and prescription drug insurance; short and  long-term disability benefits; life insurance plans; Section 401(k) retirement savings plan with company match; paid  vacations and holidays; incentive programs; an employee assistance program; and an educational reimbursement  program.", "We require substantial working capital related to accounts receivable and inventories.  Significant amounts of  inventory are carried to meet customers' delivery requirements.  We generally require payments for sales on account  within 30 days.  Returns are not considered to have a material effect on our working capital requirements.  We  believe these practices are generally consistent among companies in our industry.", "Additional risks not currently known to us, risks that could apply broadly to issuers, or risks that we  currently deem immaterial, may also impact our business and operations.  Risks can also change over time.  Further,  the disclosure of a risk should not be interpreted to imply that the risk has not already materialized.", "Our foreign operations' results are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable  exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements.  Fluctuations in currency exchange rates affect  our operating results and financial position, as well as the comparability of results between financial periods.", "In addition, as a distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors  generally, or us in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts us.  For example, key suppliers could change the  following: the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing brands; the  geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations; supplier purchasing incentive or other support  programs; product purchase or stocking expectations; or the extent to which the suppliers seek to serve end users  directly.", "The purchasing incentives we earn from product suppliers can be impacted if we reduce our purchases in  response to declining customer demand.  Certain product suppliers have historically offered to their distributors,  including us, incentives for purchasing their products.  In addition to market or customer account-specific incentives,  certain suppliers pay incentives to the distributor for attaining specific purchase volumes during a program period.    In some cases, to earn incentives, we must achieve year-over-year growth in purchases with the supplier.  When  demand for our products declines, we may be less inclined to add inventory to take advantage of certain incentive  programs, thereby potentially adversely impacting our profitability.", "proprietary or confidential information, or the breach of customer, supplier, or employee information.  A security  incident involving our systems, or even an inadvertent failure to comply with data privacy and security laws and  regulations, could negatively impact our sales, damage our reputation, and cause us to incur unanticipated legal  liability, remediation costs, and other losses and expenses.", "Further, even if we successfully integrate the acquisitions with our operations, we may not be able to realize cost  savings, sales, profit levels, or other benefits that we anticipate from these acquisitions, either as to amount or in the  time frame we expect.  Our ability to realize anticipated benefits may be affected by a number of factors, including  the following: our ability to achieve planned operating results, to reduce duplicative expenses and inventory  effectively, and to consolidate facilities; economic and market factors; the incurrence of significant integration costs  or charges in order to achieve those benefits; our ability to retain key product supplier authorizations, customer  relationships, and employees; our ability to address competitive, distribution, and regulatory challenges arising from  entering into new markets (geographic, product, service, end-industry, or otherwise), especially those in which we  may have limited or no direct experience; and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired  company.  In addition, acquisitions could place significant demand on administrative, operational, and financial  resources.", "Our indebtedness entails debt service commitments that could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our  obligations and could limit or reduce our flexibility.  As of June 30, 2021, we had total debt obligations  outstanding of $829.4 million.  Our ability to service our debt and fund our other liquidity needs will depend on our  ability to generate cash in the future.  Our debt commitments may (i) require us to dedicate a substantial portion of  our cash flows from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund  planned capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase our shares, complete other acquisitions or strategic  initiatives, and other general corporate purposes; (ii) limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future  (either at all or on satisfactory terms) to enable us to react to changes in our business or execute our growth  strategies; and (iii) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have lower  levels of indebtedness.  Additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt  could result in an event of default.  Any of the foregoing events or circumstances relating to our indebtedness may  adversely affect our business, financial position, or results of operations and may cause our stock price to decline.", "Although the credit market turmoil of a decade ago did not have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity or  borrowing costs, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt increased.  If credit market  volatility were to return, obtaining additional or replacement financing could be more difficult and the cost of issuing  new debt or replacing a credit facility could be higher than under our current facilities.  Tight credit conditions could  limit our ability to finance acquisitions on terms acceptable to us.", "Our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may be insufficient to allow us to  accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our financial statements to  become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  We require  effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our  financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.  Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect  misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or  overriding of controls, or fraud.  Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance  with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements.  If we cannot provide reasonable  assurance with respect to our financial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our financial statements could be  materially misstated, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.", "If we are not able to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to  implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business,  financial condition and operating results could be harmed.  Any material weakness could affect investor confidence  in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements.  As a result, our ability to obtain any additional  financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected.  This, in turn, could  materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and the market value of our stock and require us to  incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures.  In addition, perceptions of the  Company among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts, and others could also be adversely  affected.", "Goodwill, long-lived, and other intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become  impaired.  We review goodwill, long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identifiable  amortizing intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the  carrying amounts are not recoverable.  Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include  significant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, significant  underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset  before the end of its estimated useful life.  In 2021, we recorded a $49.5 million non-cash charge for the impairment  of certain intangible, lease, and fixed assets.", "As of June 30, 2021, we had remaining $560.1 million of goodwill and $279.6 million of other intangible assets,  net.  We assess all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment on a reporting unit basis.  The techniques used  in our qualitative assessment and goodwill impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that  are subject to change.  Although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and reflect market  conditions forecasted at the assessment date, any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market  conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods.", "We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method by which LIBOR is  determined.  As of June 30, 2021, we had approximately $738.6 million of aggregate consolidated indebtedness  that was indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate (\u201cLIBOR\u201d).  As of June 30, 2021, approximately $420.0  million of this variable rate debt was converted to a fixed rate through an interest rate swap.  The swap agreement,  entered into in January 2019 and subsequently amended and extended, is indexed to LIBOR.  The U.K.", "However, in March 2021, the FCA proposed to extend publication of the most  commonly used U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors, including those tenors most relevant to us, through June 30, 2023.  Any of  our LIBOR-based borrowings that extend beyond June 30, 2023 will need to be converted to a replacement rate  prior to that date.", "Regulators and industry groups have identified recommended alternatives for certain reference  rates, but there continues to be considerable uncertainty about what benchmark or benchmarks will replace LIBOR  and when that will occur.  The full impact of the transition away from LIBOR remains unclear, but the transition and  related changes may have a material adverse impact on the availability of financing and on our financing costs.", "We are subject to legal, regulatory, and litigation risks, which may have a material adverse effect on our  business.", "We are subject to a wide array of laws and regulations.  Changes in the legal and regulatory environment  in which we operate, including with respect to taxes, international trade, employment laws, and data privacy, could  adversely and materially affect the Company.", "In addition, from time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings that arise from our business.   These may, for example, relate to product liability claims, commercial disputes, personal injuries, or employment- related matters.  In addition, we could face claims or additional costs arising from our compliance with regulatory  requirements, including those relating to the following: our status as a public company; our government contracts;  tax compliance; our engagement in international trade; and our collection, storage, or transmission of personal data.", "We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities  associated with our business.  The policies are subject to limits, deductibles, and exclusions that result in our  retention of a level of risk on a self-insured basis.   The defense and ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings or inquiries may result in higher operating  expenses, the inability to participate in existing or future government contacts, or other adverse consequences,  which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.", "Applied and/or one of its subsidiaries is a party to pending legal proceedings with respect to product liability,  commercial, personal injury, employment, and other matters.  Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of  these proceedings or the range of reasonably possible loss, we do not expect, based on circumstances currently  known, that the ultimate resolution of any of these proceedings will have, either individually or in the aggregate, a  material adverse effect on Applied's consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.", "Our earnings per share was $3.68 in fiscal 2021 versus $0.62 in fiscal year 2020.", "This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated financial statements for  the years ended June\u00a030, 2021 and 2020.  For the comparison of the years ended June\u00a030, 2020 and 2019, see the  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2020  Annual Report on Form 10-K.", "Our primary source of capital is cash flow from operations, supplemented as necessary by bank borrowings or other  sources of debt.  At June\u00a030, 2021 we had total debt obligations outstanding of $829.4 million compared to $935.3  million at June\u00a030, 2020.  Management expects that our existing cash, cash equivalents, funds available under our  debt facilities, and cash provided from operations, will be sufficient to finance normal working capital needs in each  of the countries we operate in, payment of dividends, acquisitions, investments in properties, facilities and  equipment, debt service, and the purchase of additional Company common stock.  Management also believes that  additional long-term debt and line of credit financing could be obtained based on the Company\u2019s credit standing  and financial strength.", "The increase in dividends over the year is the result of regular increases in our dividend payout rates.  We paid  dividends of $1.30 and $1.26 per share in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  We expect capital expenditures for fiscal 2022 to be in the $18.0\u00a0million to $20.0 million range, primarily consisting  of capital associated with additional information technology equipment and infrastructure investments.", "The Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company\u2019s stock.  These purchases may  be made in open market and negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending upon market conditions.    At June\u00a030, 2021, we had authorization to purchase an additional 464,618 shares.", "The Company repurchased 400,000 shares in fiscal 2021 at an average price per share of $100.22.  In fiscal 2020 no  shares were repurchased and in 2019, we repurchased 192,082 shares of the Company\u2019s common stock at an  average price per share of $58.10.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August\u00a031, 2021.  In March 2021, the Company amended the AR Securitization Facility to  expand the eligible receivables, which increased the maximum availability to $250.0 million and increased the drawn  fees on the AR Securitization Facility to 0.98% per year.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings  of our customers, customer concentration levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being  transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be able to fully access the $250.0 million of funding  available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s  borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The  Company uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively  reducing borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR.  The interest rate  on the AR Securitization Facility as of June\u00a030, 2021 and June\u00a030, 2020 was 1.20% and 1.07%, respectively.  The  termination date of the AR Securitization is now in March 2024.", "On a consolidated basis, DSO was 51.9 at June\u00a030, 2021 versus 55.9 at June\u00a030, 2020.  Approximately 3.0% of our  accounts receivable balances are more than 90 days past due at June\u00a030, 2021 compared to 4.6% at June\u00a030, 2020.  On an overall basis, our provision for losses from uncollected receivables represents 0.20% of our sales for the year  ended June\u00a030, 2021, compared to 0.43% of sales for the year ended June\u00a030, 2020.  The decrease primarily relates  to strong cash collections and an improvement in the overall credit profile of the accounts receivable portfolio in the  current year, compared to provisions recorded in the prior year for customer credit deterioration and bankruptcies  primarily in the U.S. and Mexican operations of the Service Center Based Distribution segment.  Historically, this  percentage is around 0.10% to 0.15%.  Management believes the overall receivables aging and provision for losses  on uncollected receivables are at reasonable levels.", "Inventories are valued using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories and the average cost method for  foreign inventories.  Management uses an inventory turnover ratio to monitor and evaluate inventory.  Management  calculates this ratio on an annual as well as a quarterly basis and uses inventory valued at average costs.  The  annualized inventory turnover (using average costs) for the year ended June\u00a030, 2021 was 4.3 versus 3.8 for the year  ended June\u00a030, 2020.  We believe our inventory turnover ratio in fiscal 2022 will be slightly better than our fiscal  2021 levels.", "Purchase orders for inventory and other goods and services are not included in our estimates as we are unable to  aggregate the amount of such purchase orders that represent enforceable and legally binding agreements specifying  all significant terms.  The previous table includes the gross liability for unrecognized income tax benefits including  interest and penalties in the \u201cOther\u201d column as the Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate regarding the  timing of cash settlements, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.", "Inventories are valued at the average cost method, using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories, and  the average cost method for foreign inventories.  We adopted the link chain dollar value LIFO method for accounting  for U.S. inventories in fiscal 1974.  Approximately 19.8% of our domestic inventory dollars relate to LIFO layers  added in the 1970s.  The excess of average cost over LIFO cost is $151.9 million as reflected in our consolidated  balance sheet at June\u00a030, 2021.  The Company maintains five LIFO pools based on the following product groupings:  bearings, power transmission products, rubber products, fluid power products and other products.", "We evaluate the collectibility of trade accounts receivable based on a combination of factors.  Initially, we estimate  an allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net sales based on historical bad debt experience.  This initial  estimate is adjusted based on recent trends of certain customers and industries estimated to be a greater credit risk,  trends within the entire customer pool and changes in the overall aging of accounts receivable.  While we have a  large customer base that is geographically dispersed, a general economic downturn in any of the industry segments  in which we operate could result in higher than expected defaults, and therefore, the need to revise estimates for  bad debts.  Accounts are written off against the allowance when it becomes evident that collection will not occur.", "As of June\u00a030, 2021 and 2020, our allowance for doubtful accounts was 3.1% and 2.9% of gross receivables,  respectively.  Our provision for losses on accounts receivable was $6.5 million, $14.1 million and $4.1 million in fiscal  2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.", "We evaluate goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually as of January 1, and whenever an event  occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting  unit is less than its carrying amount.  Events or circumstances that may result in an impairment review include  changes in macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial  performance, other relevant entity-specific events, specific events affecting the reporting unit or sustained decrease  in share price.  Each year, the Company may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is  more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.  If impairment is indicated in  the qualitative assessment, or, if management elects to initially perform a quantitative assessment of goodwill, the  impairment test uses a one-step approach.  The fair value of a reporting unit is compared with its carrying amount,  including goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit  is not impaired.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge would be", "Goodwill on our consolidated financial statements relates to both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and  the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Company has eight (8) reporting units for which an annual goodwill  impairment assessment was performed as of January 1, 2021.\u00a0 The Company concluded that seven (7) of the  reporting units\u2019 fair values exceeded their carrying amounts by at least 25% as of January 1, 2021.  The fair value of  the final reporting unit, which is comprised of the FCX Performance Inc. (FCX) operations, exceeded its carrying value  by 14%.  The FCX reporting unit has a goodwill balance of $309.0 million as of June\u00a030, 2021.", "We discuss certain of these matters and other risk factors more fully throughout our Form 10-K, as well as other of  our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.", "Our market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as changes in interest rates.   We occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use  derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.", "Because we operate throughout North America, Australia and New Zealand and approximately 14.0% of our fiscal  year 2021 net sales were generated outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates can impact our  financial position, results of operations and competitive position.  The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are  translated into their U.S. dollar equivalents at end-of-period exchange rates for assets and liabilities, while income  and expenses are translated at average monthly exchange rates.  Translation gains and losses are components of  other comprehensive income\u00a0as reported in the statements of consolidated comprehensive income.  Transaction  gains and losses arising from fluctuations in currency exchange rates on transactions denominated in currencies  other than the functional currency are recognized in the statements of consolidated income as a component of other  income, net.  Applied does not currently hedge the net investments in our foreign operations.", "Our primary exposure to interest rate risk results from our outstanding debt obligations with variable interest rates.  The levels of fees and interest charged on our various debt facilities are based upon leverage levels and market  interest rates.", "Our variable interest rate debt facilities outstanding include our five-year credit facility, which provides for a revolving  credit facility with a capacity of up to $250.0 million in borrowings with no balance outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021, a  $780.0 million term loan, of which $550.3 million was outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021, and a $188.3 million trade  receivable securitization facility, all of which was outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021.  In January 2019, the Company  entered into an interest rate swap on $463.0 million of the Company\u2019s U.S. dollar-denominated unsecured variable  rate debt.  The notional amount of the interest rate swap was $420.0 million as of June\u00a030, 2021.  The interest rate  swap effectively converts a portion of the floating rate interest payment into a fixed rate interest payment.  The  Company designated the interest rate swap as a pay-fixed, receive-floating interest rate swap instrument and is  accounting for this derivative as a cash flow hedge.  Fixed interest rate debt facilities include $90.0 million  outstanding under our unsecured shelf facility agreement, as well as $0.8 million of assumed debt from the purchase  of our headquarters facility.  We had total average variable interest rate bank borrowings of $739.3 million during  fiscal 2021.  The impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the interest rates on our average variable interest rate  bank borrowings (not considering the impact of our interest rate swap) would have resulted in a $7.4 million  increase in interest expense.  Due to the interest rate swap, the impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the  variable interest rate would have reduced net cash interest paid by $4.2 million.  Changes in market interest rates  would also impact interest rates on these facilities.", "For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the \u201cLiquidity and Capital Resources\u201d section of  \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\u201d in Item 7 and notes 6 and  7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  That information is also incorporated here by reference.  In  addition, see Item 1A, \u201cRisk Factors,\u201d for additional risk factors relating to our business.", "REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM", "These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an  opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits.  We are a public accounting firm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.", "We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material  misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.  Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material  misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to  those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the  financial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made  by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.  We believe that our audits  provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial  statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to  accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging,  subjective, or complex judgments.  The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on  the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing  a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.", "Our audit procedures related to the forecasts of future revenues and EBITDA (\u201cforecasts\u201d), and the selection of the  discount rate and selection of multiples applied to management\u2019s forecasted revenues and EBITDA estimates (\u201cmarket  multiples\u201d) for the FCX reporting unit included the following, among others: \u2022 We tested the effectiveness of controls over management\u2019s goodwill impairment evaluation, such as controls related to management\u2019s forecasts and the selection of the discount rate and market multiples used. \u2022 We evaluated management\u2019s ability to accurately forecast by comparing actual results to management\u2019s historical forecasts. \u2022 We evaluated the reasonableness of management\u2019s forecasts by comparing the forecasts to (1) historical results, (2) internal communications to management and the Board of Directors, and (3) forecasted information included in industry reports for the various industries the reporting unit operates within. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the discount rate, including testing the underlying source information and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, and developing a range of independent estimates and comparing those to the discount rate selected by management. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the market multiples by evaluating the selected comparable publicly traded companies and the adjustments made for differences in growth prospects and risk profiles between the reporting unit and the comparable publicly traded companies.  We tested the underlying source information and mathematical accuracy of the calculations. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the fair value of the reporting unit based upon reconciling the fair value of the reporting unit to the market capitalization of the Company.", "We have served as the Company's auditor since 1966.", "The difference between the opening and closing balances of the Company's contract assets primarily results from  the timing difference between the Company's performance and when the customer is billed.", "Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment when changes in conditions indicate  carrying value may not be recoverable.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August\u00a031, 2021.  On March 26, 2021, the Company amended the AR Securitization  Facility to expand the eligible receivables, which increased the maximum availability to $250,000 and increased the  drawn fees on the AR Securitization Facility to 0.98% per year.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit  ratings of our customers, customer concentration levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being  transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be able to fully access the $250,000 of funding available  under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing  capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The Company  uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively reducing  borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR.  The interest rate on the AR  Securitization Facility as of June\u00a030, 2021 and June\u00a030, 2020 was 1.20% and 1.07%, respectively.  The termination  date of the AR Securitization is now March\u00a026, 2024.", "We have evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to June\u00a030, 2021 through the date the financial  statements were issued.", "CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING", "Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting None.", "We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries  (the \u201cCompany\u201d) as of June\u00a030, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  In our opinion, the  Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of June\u00a030, 2021,  based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United  States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended June\u00a030, 2021, of the Company  and our report dated August 17, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements  and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's adoption of a new accounting standard related to  leases.", "The Company\u2019s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its  assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management\u2019s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the  Company\u2019s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We are a public accounting firm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was  maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial  reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered  necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "Applied has a code of ethics, named the Code of Business Ethics, that applies to our employees, including our  principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer.  The Code of Business Ethics is  posted via hyperlink at the investor relations area of our www.applied.com website.  In addition, amendments to  and waivers from the Code of Business Ethics will be disclosed promptly at the same location.", "Pursuant to the requirements of Section\u00a013 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this  report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.", "Applied intends that such forward-looking  statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby.", "Fiscal 2021 was characterized by an evolving environment in which we demonstrated and  strengthened our ability to adapt and respond.", "Our performance since then provides  confirmation of this position, including generating record earnings, significant cash flow, and expanding margins through the year,  while further strengthening our balance sheet.", "We are proud and grateful to contribute to society\u2019s recovery!", "We recognize that building on our legacy also means being a responsible corporate citizen.", "The information available via hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K.", "growth in more profitable areas of our business and our history of cost accountability, we see ongoing  opportunity to optimize our margin profile and cash generation in coming years.", "Compensation and Benefits.  We seek to provide competitive compensation and benefits in order to help attract  and retain high quality associates.  In the U.S., Applied offers comprehensive benefits with choices to fit our  associates\u2019 varied needs, including the following: medical, dental, vision, and prescription drug insurance; short and  long-term disability benefits; life insurance plans; Section 401(k) retirement savings plan with company match; paid  vacations and holidays; incentive programs; an employee assistance program; and an educational reimbursement  program.", "We require substantial working capital related to accounts receivable and inventories.  Significant amounts of  inventory are carried to meet customers' delivery requirements.  We generally require payments for sales on account  within 30 days.  Returns are not considered to have a material effect on our working capital requirements.  We  believe these practices are generally consistent among companies in our industry.", "Additional risks not currently known to us, risks that could apply broadly to issuers, or risks that we  currently deem immaterial, may also impact our business and operations.  Risks can also change over time.  Further,  the disclosure of a risk should not be interpreted to imply that the risk has not already materialized.", "Our foreign operations' results are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable  exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements.  Fluctuations in currency exchange rates affect  our operating results and financial position, as well as the comparability of results between financial periods.", "In addition, as a distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors  generally, or us in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts us.  For example, key suppliers could change the  following: the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing brands; the  geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations; supplier purchasing incentive or other support  programs; product purchase or stocking expectations; or the extent to which the suppliers seek to serve end users  directly.", "The purchasing incentives we earn from product suppliers can be impacted if we reduce our purchases in  response to declining customer demand.  Certain product suppliers have historically offered to their distributors,  including us, incentives for purchasing their products.  In addition to market or customer account-specific incentives,  certain suppliers pay incentives to the distributor for attaining specific purchase volumes during a program period.    In some cases, to earn incentives, we must achieve year-over-year growth in purchases with the supplier.  When  demand for our products declines, we may be less inclined to add inventory to take advantage of certain incentive  programs, thereby potentially adversely impacting our profitability.", "proprietary or confidential information, or the breach of customer, supplier, or employee information.  A security  incident involving our systems, or even an inadvertent failure to comply with data privacy and security laws and  regulations, could negatively impact our sales, damage our reputation, and cause us to incur unanticipated legal  liability, remediation costs, and other losses and expenses.", "Further, even if we successfully integrate the acquisitions with our operations, we may not be able to realize cost  savings, sales, profit levels, or other benefits that we anticipate from these acquisitions, either as to amount or in the  time frame we expect.  Our ability to realize anticipated benefits may be affected by a number of factors, including  the following: our ability to achieve planned operating results, to reduce duplicative expenses and inventory  effectively, and to consolidate facilities; economic and market factors; the incurrence of significant integration costs  or charges in order to achieve those benefits; our ability to retain key product supplier authorizations, customer  relationships, and employees; our ability to address competitive, distribution, and regulatory challenges arising from  entering into new markets (geographic, product, service, end-industry, or otherwise), especially those in which we  may have limited or no direct experience; and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired  company.  In addition, acquisitions could place significant demand on administrative, operational, and financial  resources.", "Our indebtedness entails debt service commitments that could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our  obligations and could limit or reduce our flexibility.  As of June 30, 2021, we had total debt obligations  outstanding of $829.4 million.  Our ability to service our debt and fund our other liquidity needs will depend on our  ability to generate cash in the future.  Our debt commitments may (i) require us to dedicate a substantial portion of  our cash flows from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund  planned capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase our shares, complete other acquisitions or strategic  initiatives, and other general corporate purposes; (ii) limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future  (either at all or on satisfactory terms) to enable us to react to changes in our business or execute our growth  strategies; and (iii) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have lower  levels of indebtedness.  Additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt  could result in an event of default.  Any of the foregoing events or circumstances relating to our indebtedness may  adversely affect our business, financial position, or results of operations and may cause our stock price to decline.", "Although the credit market turmoil of a decade ago did not have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity or  borrowing costs, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt increased.  If credit market  volatility were to return, obtaining additional or replacement financing could be more difficult and the cost of issuing  new debt or replacing a credit facility could be higher than under our current facilities.  Tight credit conditions could  limit our ability to finance acquisitions on terms acceptable to us.", "Our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may be insufficient to allow us to  accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our financial statements to  become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  We require  effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our  financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.  Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect  misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or  overriding of controls, or fraud.  Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance  with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements.  If we cannot provide reasonable  assurance with respect to our financial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our financial statements could be  materially misstated, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.", "If we are not able to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to  implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business,  financial condition and operating results could be harmed.  Any material weakness could affect investor confidence  in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements.  As a result, our ability to obtain any additional  financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected.  This, in turn, could  materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and the market value of our stock and require us to  incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures.  In addition, perceptions of the  Company among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts, and others could also be adversely  affected.", "Goodwill, long-lived, and other intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become  impaired.  We review goodwill, long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identifiable  amortizing intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the  carrying amounts are not recoverable.  Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include  significant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, significant  underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset  before the end of its estimated useful life.  In 2021, we recorded a $49.5 million non-cash charge for the impairment  of certain intangible, lease, and fixed assets.", "As of June 30, 2021, we had remaining $560.1 million of goodwill and $279.6 million of other intangible assets,  net.  We assess all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment on a reporting unit basis.  The techniques used  in our qualitative assessment and goodwill impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that  are subject to change.  Although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and reflect market  conditions forecasted at the assessment date, any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market  conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods.", "We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method by which LIBOR is  determined.  As of June 30, 2021, we had approximately $738.6 million of aggregate consolidated indebtedness  that was indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate (\u201cLIBOR\u201d).  As of June 30, 2021, approximately $420.0  million of this variable rate debt was converted to a fixed rate through an interest rate swap.  The swap agreement,  entered into in January 2019 and subsequently amended and extended, is indexed to LIBOR.  The U.K.", "However, in March 2021, the FCA proposed to extend publication of the most  commonly used U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors, including those tenors most relevant to us, through June 30, 2023.  Any of  our LIBOR-based borrowings that extend beyond June 30, 2023 will need to be converted to a replacement rate  prior to that date.", "Regulators and industry groups have identified recommended alternatives for certain reference  rates, but there continues to be considerable uncertainty about what benchmark or benchmarks will replace LIBOR  and when that will occur.  The full impact of the transition away from LIBOR remains unclear, but the transition and  related changes may have a material adverse impact on the availability of financing and on our financing costs.", "We are subject to legal, regulatory, and litigation risks, which may have a material adverse effect on our  business.", "We are subject to a wide array of laws and regulations.  Changes in the legal and regulatory environment  in which we operate, including with respect to taxes, international trade, employment laws, and data privacy, could  adversely and materially affect the Company.", "In addition, from time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings that arise from our business.   These may, for example, relate to product liability claims, commercial disputes, personal injuries, or employment- related matters.  In addition, we could face claims or additional costs arising from our compliance with regulatory  requirements, including those relating to the following: our status as a public company; our government contracts;  tax compliance; our engagement in international trade; and our collection, storage, or transmission of personal data.", "We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities  associated with our business.  The policies are subject to limits, deductibles, and exclusions that result in our  retention of a level of risk on a self-insured basis.   The defense and ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings or inquiries may result in higher operating  expenses, the inability to participate in existing or future government contacts, or other adverse consequences,  which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.", "Applied and/or one of its subsidiaries is a party to pending legal proceedings with respect to product liability,  commercial, personal injury, employment, and other matters.  Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of  these proceedings or the range of reasonably possible loss, we do not expect, based on circumstances currently  known, that the ultimate resolution of any of these proceedings will have, either individually or in the aggregate, a  material adverse effect on Applied's consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.", "Our earnings per share was $3.68 in fiscal 2021 versus $0.62 in fiscal year 2020.", "This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated financial statements for  the years ended June\u00a030, 2021 and 2020.  For the comparison of the years ended June\u00a030, 2020 and 2019, see the  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2020  Annual Report on Form 10-K.", "Our primary source of capital is cash flow from operations, supplemented as necessary by bank borrowings or other  sources of debt.  At June\u00a030, 2021 we had total debt obligations outstanding of $829.4 million compared to $935.3  million at June\u00a030, 2020.  Management expects that our existing cash, cash equivalents, funds available under our  debt facilities, and cash provided from operations, will be sufficient to finance normal working capital needs in each  of the countries we operate in, payment of dividends, acquisitions, investments in properties, facilities and  equipment, debt service, and the purchase of additional Company common stock.  Management also believes that  additional long-term debt and line of credit financing could be obtained based on the Company\u2019s credit standing  and financial strength.", "The increase in dividends over the year is the result of regular increases in our dividend payout rates.  We paid  dividends of $1.30 and $1.26 per share in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  We expect capital expenditures for fiscal 2022 to be in the $18.0\u00a0million to $20.0 million range, primarily consisting  of capital associated with additional information technology equipment and infrastructure investments.", "The Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company\u2019s stock.  These purchases may  be made in open market and negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending upon market conditions.    At June\u00a030, 2021, we had authorization to purchase an additional 464,618 shares.", "The Company repurchased 400,000 shares in fiscal 2021 at an average price per share of $100.22.  In fiscal 2020 no  shares were repurchased and in 2019, we repurchased 192,082 shares of the Company\u2019s common stock at an  average price per share of $58.10.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August\u00a031, 2021.  In March 2021, the Company amended the AR Securitization Facility to  expand the eligible receivables, which increased the maximum availability to $250.0 million and increased the drawn  fees on the AR Securitization Facility to 0.98% per year.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings  of our customers, customer concentration levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being  transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be able to fully access the $250.0 million of funding  available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s  borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The  Company uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively  reducing borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR.  The interest rate  on the AR Securitization Facility as of June\u00a030, 2021 and June\u00a030, 2020 was 1.20% and 1.07%, respectively.  The  termination date of the AR Securitization is now in March 2024.", "On a consolidated basis, DSO was 51.9 at June\u00a030, 2021 versus 55.9 at June\u00a030, 2020.  Approximately 3.0% of our  accounts receivable balances are more than 90 days past due at June\u00a030, 2021 compared to 4.6% at June\u00a030, 2020.  On an overall basis, our provision for losses from uncollected receivables represents 0.20% of our sales for the year  ended June\u00a030, 2021, compared to 0.43% of sales for the year ended June\u00a030, 2020.  The decrease primarily relates  to strong cash collections and an improvement in the overall credit profile of the accounts receivable portfolio in the  current year, compared to provisions recorded in the prior year for customer credit deterioration and bankruptcies  primarily in the U.S. and Mexican operations of the Service Center Based Distribution segment.  Historically, this  percentage is around 0.10% to 0.15%.  Management believes the overall receivables aging and provision for losses  on uncollected receivables are at reasonable levels.", "Inventories are valued using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories and the average cost method for  foreign inventories.  Management uses an inventory turnover ratio to monitor and evaluate inventory.  Management  calculates this ratio on an annual as well as a quarterly basis and uses inventory valued at average costs.  The  annualized inventory turnover (using average costs) for the year ended June\u00a030, 2021 was 4.3 versus 3.8 for the year  ended June\u00a030, 2020.  We believe our inventory turnover ratio in fiscal 2022 will be slightly better than our fiscal  2021 levels.", "Purchase orders for inventory and other goods and services are not included in our estimates as we are unable to  aggregate the amount of such purchase orders that represent enforceable and legally binding agreements specifying  all significant terms.  The previous table includes the gross liability for unrecognized income tax benefits including  interest and penalties in the \u201cOther\u201d column as the Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate regarding the  timing of cash settlements, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.", "Inventories are valued at the average cost method, using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories, and  the average cost method for foreign inventories.  We adopted the link chain dollar value LIFO method for accounting  for U.S. inventories in fiscal 1974.  Approximately 19.8% of our domestic inventory dollars relate to LIFO layers  added in the 1970s.  The excess of average cost over LIFO cost is $151.9 million as reflected in our consolidated  balance sheet at June\u00a030, 2021.  The Company maintains five LIFO pools based on the following product groupings:  bearings, power transmission products, rubber products, fluid power products and other products.", "We evaluate the collectibility of trade accounts receivable based on a combination of factors.  Initially, we estimate  an allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net sales based on historical bad debt experience.  This initial  estimate is adjusted based on recent trends of certain customers and industries estimated to be a greater credit risk,  trends within the entire customer pool and changes in the overall aging of accounts receivable.  While we have a  large customer base that is geographically dispersed, a general economic downturn in any of the industry segments  in which we operate could result in higher than expected defaults, and therefore, the need to revise estimates for  bad debts.  Accounts are written off against the allowance when it becomes evident that collection will not occur.", "As of June\u00a030, 2021 and 2020, our allowance for doubtful accounts was 3.1% and 2.9% of gross receivables,  respectively.  Our provision for losses on accounts receivable was $6.5 million, $14.1 million and $4.1 million in fiscal  2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.", "We evaluate goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually as of January 1, and whenever an event  occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting  unit is less than its carrying amount.  Events or circumstances that may result in an impairment review include  changes in macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial  performance, other relevant entity-specific events, specific events affecting the reporting unit or sustained decrease  in share price.  Each year, the Company may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is  more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.  If impairment is indicated in  the qualitative assessment, or, if management elects to initially perform a quantitative assessment of goodwill, the  impairment test uses a one-step approach.  The fair value of a reporting unit is compared with its carrying amount,  including goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit  is not impaired.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge would be", "Goodwill on our consolidated financial statements relates to both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and  the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Company has eight (8) reporting units for which an annual goodwill  impairment assessment was performed as of January 1, 2021.\u00a0 The Company concluded that seven (7) of the  reporting units\u2019 fair values exceeded their carrying amounts by at least 25% as of January 1, 2021.  The fair value of  the final reporting unit, which is comprised of the FCX Performance Inc. (FCX) operations, exceeded its carrying value  by 14%.  The FCX reporting unit has a goodwill balance of $309.0 million as of June\u00a030, 2021.", "We discuss certain of these matters and other risk factors more fully throughout our Form 10-K, as well as other of  our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.", "Our market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as changes in interest rates.   We occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use  derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.", "Because we operate throughout North America, Australia and New Zealand and approximately 14.0% of our fiscal  year 2021 net sales were generated outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates can impact our  financial position, results of operations and competitive position.  The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are  translated into their U.S. dollar equivalents at end-of-period exchange rates for assets and liabilities, while income  and expenses are translated at average monthly exchange rates.  Translation gains and losses are components of  other comprehensive income\u00a0as reported in the statements of consolidated comprehensive income.  Transaction  gains and losses arising from fluctuations in currency exchange rates on transactions denominated in currencies  other than the functional currency are recognized in the statements of consolidated income as a component of other  income, net.  Applied does not currently hedge the net investments in our foreign operations.", "Our primary exposure to interest rate risk results from our outstanding debt obligations with variable interest rates.  The levels of fees and interest charged on our various debt facilities are based upon leverage levels and market  interest rates.", "Our variable interest rate debt facilities outstanding include our five-year credit facility, which provides for a revolving  credit facility with a capacity of up to $250.0 million in borrowings with no balance outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021, a  $780.0 million term loan, of which $550.3 million was outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021, and a $188.3 million trade  receivable securitization facility, all of which was outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021.  In January 2019, the Company  entered into an interest rate swap on $463.0 million of the Company\u2019s U.S. dollar-denominated unsecured variable  rate debt.  The notional amount of the interest rate swap was $420.0 million as of June\u00a030, 2021.  The interest rate  swap effectively converts a portion of the floating rate interest payment into a fixed rate interest payment.  The  Company designated the interest rate swap as a pay-fixed, receive-floating interest rate swap instrument and is  accounting for this derivative as a cash flow hedge.  Fixed interest rate debt facilities include $90.0 million  outstanding under our unsecured shelf facility agreement, as well as $0.8 million of assumed debt from the purchase  of our headquarters facility.  We had total average variable interest rate bank borrowings of $739.3 million during  fiscal 2021.  The impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the interest rates on our average variable interest rate  bank borrowings (not considering the impact of our interest rate swap) would have resulted in a $7.4 million  increase in interest expense.  Due to the interest rate swap, the impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the  variable interest rate would have reduced net cash interest paid by $4.2 million.  Changes in market interest rates  would also impact interest rates on these facilities.", "For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the \u201cLiquidity and Capital Resources\u201d section of  \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\u201d in Item 7 and notes 6 and  7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  That information is also incorporated here by reference.  In  addition, see Item 1A, \u201cRisk Factors,\u201d for additional risk factors relating to our business.", "REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM", "These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an  opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits.  We are a public accounting firm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.", "We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material  misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.  Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material  misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to  those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the  financial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made  by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.  We believe that our audits  provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial  statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to  accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging,  subjective, or complex judgments.  The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on  the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing  a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.", "Our audit procedures related to the forecasts of future revenues and EBITDA (\u201cforecasts\u201d), and the selection of the  discount rate and selection of multiples applied to management\u2019s forecasted revenues and EBITDA estimates (\u201cmarket  multiples\u201d) for the FCX reporting unit included the following, among others: \u2022 We tested the effectiveness of controls over management\u2019s goodwill impairment evaluation, such as controls related to management\u2019s forecasts and the selection of the discount rate and market multiples used. \u2022 We evaluated management\u2019s ability to accurately forecast by comparing actual results to management\u2019s historical forecasts. \u2022 We evaluated the reasonableness of management\u2019s forecasts by comparing the forecasts to (1) historical results, (2) internal communications to management and the Board of Directors, and (3) forecasted information included in industry reports for the various industries the reporting unit operates within. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the discount rate, including testing the underlying source information and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, and developing a range of independent estimates and comparing those to the discount rate selected by management. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the market multiples by evaluating the selected comparable publicly traded companies and the adjustments made for differences in growth prospects and risk profiles between the reporting unit and the comparable publicly traded companies.  We tested the underlying source information and mathematical accuracy of the calculations. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the fair value of the reporting unit based upon reconciling the fair value of the reporting unit to the market capitalization of the Company.", "We have served as the Company's auditor since 1966.", "The difference between the opening and closing balances of the Company's contract assets primarily results from  the timing difference between the Company's performance and when the customer is billed.", "Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment when changes in conditions indicate  carrying value may not be recoverable.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August\u00a031, 2021.  On March 26, 2021, the Company amended the AR Securitization  Facility to expand the eligible receivables, which increased the maximum availability to $250,000 and increased the  drawn fees on the AR Securitization Facility to 0.98% per year.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit  ratings of our customers, customer concentration levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being  transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be able to fully access the $250,000 of funding available  under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing  capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The Company  uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively reducing  borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR.  The interest rate on the AR  Securitization Facility as of June\u00a030, 2021 and June\u00a030, 2020 was 1.20% and 1.07%, respectively.  The termination  date of the AR Securitization is now March\u00a026, 2024.", "We have evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to June\u00a030, 2021 through the date the financial  statements were issued.", "CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING", "Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting None.", "We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries  (the \u201cCompany\u201d) as of June\u00a030, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  In our opinion, the  Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of June\u00a030, 2021,  based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United  States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended June\u00a030, 2021, of the Company  and our report dated August 17, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements  and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's adoption of a new accounting standard related to  leases.", "The Company\u2019s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its  assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management\u2019s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the  Company\u2019s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We are a public accounting firm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was  maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial  reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered  necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "Applied has a code of ethics, named the Code of Business Ethics, that applies to our employees, including our  principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer.  The Code of Business Ethics is  posted via hyperlink at the investor relations area of our www.applied.com website.  In addition, amendments to  and waivers from the Code of Business Ethics will be disclosed promptly at the same location.", "Pursuant to the requirements of Section\u00a013 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this  report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.", "Applied intends that such forward-looking  statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby.", "Fiscal 2021 was characterized by an evolving environment in which we demonstrated and  strengthened our ability to adapt and respond.", "Our performance since then provides  confirmation of this position, including generating record earnings, significant cash flow, and expanding margins through the year,  while further strengthening our balance sheet.", "We are proud and grateful to contribute to society\u2019s recovery!", "We recognize that building on our legacy also means being a responsible corporate citizen.", "The information available via hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K.", "growth in more profitable areas of our business and our history of cost accountability, we see ongoing  opportunity to optimize our margin profile and cash generation in coming years.", "Compensation and Benefits.  We seek to provide competitive compensation and benefits in order to help attract  and retain high quality associates.  In the U.S., Applied offers comprehensive benefits with choices to fit our  associates\u2019 varied needs, including the following: medical, dental, vision, and prescription drug insurance; short and  long-term disability benefits; life insurance plans; Section 401(k) retirement savings plan with company match; paid  vacations and holidays; incentive programs; an employee assistance program; and an educational reimbursement  program.", "We require substantial working capital related to accounts receivable and inventories.  Significant amounts of  inventory are carried to meet customers' delivery requirements.  We generally require payments for sales on account  within 30 days.  Returns are not considered to have a material effect on our working capital requirements.  We  believe these practices are generally consistent among companies in our industry.", "Additional risks not currently known to us, risks that could apply broadly to issuers, or risks that we  currently deem immaterial, may also impact our business and operations.  Risks can also change over time.  Further,  the disclosure of a risk should not be interpreted to imply that the risk has not already materialized.", "Our foreign operations' results are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable  exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements.  Fluctuations in currency exchange rates affect  our operating results and financial position, as well as the comparability of results between financial periods.", "In addition, as a distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors  generally, or us in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts us.  For example, key suppliers could change the  following: the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing brands; the  geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations; supplier purchasing incentive or other support  programs; product purchase or stocking expectations; or the extent to which the suppliers seek to serve end users  directly.", "The purchasing incentives we earn from product suppliers can be impacted if we reduce our purchases in  response to declining customer demand.  Certain product suppliers have historically offered to their distributors,  including us, incentives for purchasing their products.  In addition to market or customer account-specific incentives,  certain suppliers pay incentives to the distributor for attaining specific purchase volumes during a program period.    In some cases, to earn incentives, we must achieve year-over-year growth in purchases with the supplier.  When  demand for our products declines, we may be less inclined to add inventory to take advantage of certain incentive  programs, thereby potentially adversely impacting our profitability.", "proprietary or confidential information, or the breach of customer, supplier, or employee information.  A security  incident involving our systems, or even an inadvertent failure to comply with data privacy and security laws and  regulations, could negatively impact our sales, damage our reputation, and cause us to incur unanticipated legal  liability, remediation costs, and other losses and expenses.", "Further, even if we successfully integrate the acquisitions with our operations, we may not be able to realize cost  savings, sales, profit levels, or other benefits that we anticipate from these acquisitions, either as to amount or in the  time frame we expect.  Our ability to realize anticipated benefits may be affected by a number of factors, including  the following: our ability to achieve planned operating results, to reduce duplicative expenses and inventory  effectively, and to consolidate facilities; economic and market factors; the incurrence of significant integration costs  or charges in order to achieve those benefits; our ability to retain key product supplier authorizations, customer  relationships, and employees; our ability to address competitive, distribution, and regulatory challenges arising from  entering into new markets (geographic, product, service, end-industry, or otherwise), especially those in which we  may have limited or no direct experience; and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired  company.  In addition, acquisitions could place significant demand on administrative, operational, and financial  resources.", "Our indebtedness entails debt service commitments that could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our  obligations and could limit or reduce our flexibility.  As of June 30, 2021, we had total debt obligations  outstanding of $829.4 million.  Our ability to service our debt and fund our other liquidity needs will depend on our  ability to generate cash in the future.  Our debt commitments may (i) require us to dedicate a substantial portion of  our cash flows from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund  planned capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase our shares, complete other acquisitions or strategic  initiatives, and other general corporate purposes; (ii) limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future  (either at all or on satisfactory terms) to enable us to react to changes in our business or execute our growth  strategies; and (iii) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have lower  levels of indebtedness.  Additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt  could result in an event of default.  Any of the foregoing events or circumstances relating to our indebtedness may  adversely affect our business, financial position, or results of operations and may cause our stock price to decline.", "Although the credit market turmoil of a decade ago did not have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity or  borrowing costs, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt increased.  If credit market  volatility were to return, obtaining additional or replacement financing could be more difficult and the cost of issuing  new debt or replacing a credit facility could be higher than under our current facilities.  Tight credit conditions could  limit our ability to finance acquisitions on terms acceptable to us.", "Our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may be insufficient to allow us to  accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our financial statements to  become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  We require  effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our  financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.  Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect  misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or  overriding of controls, or fraud.  Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance  with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements.  If we cannot provide reasonable  assurance with respect to our financial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our financial statements could be  materially misstated, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.", "If we are not able to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to  implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business,  financial condition and operating results could be harmed.  Any material weakness could affect investor confidence  in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements.  As a result, our ability to obtain any additional  financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected.  This, in turn, could  materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and the market value of our stock and require us to  incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures.  In addition, perceptions of the  Company among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts, and others could also be adversely  affected.", "Goodwill, long-lived, and other intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become  impaired.  We review goodwill, long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identifiable  amortizing intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the  carrying amounts are not recoverable.  Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include  significant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, significant  underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset  before the end of its estimated useful life.  In 2021, we recorded a $49.5 million non-cash charge for the impairment  of certain intangible, lease, and fixed assets.", "As of June 30, 2021, we had remaining $560.1 million of goodwill and $279.6 million of other intangible assets,  net.  We assess all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment on a reporting unit basis.  The techniques used  in our qualitative assessment and goodwill impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that  are subject to change.  Although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and reflect market  conditions forecasted at the assessment date, any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market  conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods.", "We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method by which LIBOR is  determined.  As of June 30, 2021, we had approximately $738.6 million of aggregate consolidated indebtedness  that was indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate (\u201cLIBOR\u201d).  As of June 30, 2021, approximately $420.0  million of this variable rate debt was converted to a fixed rate through an interest rate swap.  The swap agreement,  entered into in January 2019 and subsequently amended and extended, is indexed to LIBOR.  The U.K.", "However, in March 2021, the FCA proposed to extend publication of the most  commonly used U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors, including those tenors most relevant to us, through June 30, 2023.  Any of  our LIBOR-based borrowings that extend beyond June 30, 2023 will need to be converted to a replacement rate  prior to that date.", "Regulators and industry groups have identified recommended alternatives for certain reference  rates, but there continues to be considerable uncertainty about what benchmark or benchmarks will replace LIBOR  and when that will occur.  The full impact of the transition away from LIBOR remains unclear, but the transition and  related changes may have a material adverse impact on the availability of financing and on our financing costs.", "We are subject to legal, regulatory, and litigation risks, which may have a material adverse effect on our  business.", "We are subject to a wide array of laws and regulations.  Changes in the legal and regulatory environment  in which we operate, including with respect to taxes, international trade, employment laws, and data privacy, could  adversely and materially affect the Company.", "In addition, from time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings that arise from our business.   These may, for example, relate to product liability claims, commercial disputes, personal injuries, or employment- related matters.  In addition, we could face claims or additional costs arising from our compliance with regulatory  requirements, including those relating to the following: our status as a public company; our government contracts;  tax compliance; our engagement in international trade; and our collection, storage, or transmission of personal data.", "We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities  associated with our business.  The policies are subject to limits, deductibles, and exclusions that result in our  retention of a level of risk on a self-insured basis.   The defense and ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings or inquiries may result in higher operating  expenses, the inability to participate in existing or future government contacts, or other adverse consequences,  which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.", "Applied and/or one of its subsidiaries is a party to pending legal proceedings with respect to product liability,  commercial, personal injury, employment, and other matters.  Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of  these proceedings or the range of reasonably possible loss, we do not expect, based on circumstances currently  known, that the ultimate resolution of any of these proceedings will have, either individually or in the aggregate, a  material adverse effect on Applied's consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.", "Our earnings per share was $3.68 in fiscal 2021 versus $0.62 in fiscal year 2020.", "This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated financial statements for  the years ended June\u00a030, 2021 and 2020.  For the comparison of the years ended June\u00a030, 2020 and 2019, see the  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2020  Annual Report on Form 10-K.", "Our primary source of capital is cash flow from operations, supplemented as necessary by bank borrowings or other  sources of debt.  At June\u00a030, 2021 we had total debt obligations outstanding of $829.4 million compared to $935.3  million at June\u00a030, 2020.  Management expects that our existing cash, cash equivalents, funds available under our  debt facilities, and cash provided from operations, will be sufficient to finance normal working capital needs in each  of the countries we operate in, payment of dividends, acquisitions, investments in properties, facilities and  equipment, debt service, and the purchase of additional Company common stock.  Management also believes that  additional long-term debt and line of credit financing could be obtained based on the Company\u2019s credit standing  and financial strength.", "The increase in dividends over the year is the result of regular increases in our dividend payout rates.  We paid  dividends of $1.30 and $1.26 per share in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  We expect capital expenditures for fiscal 2022 to be in the $18.0\u00a0million to $20.0 million range, primarily consisting  of capital associated with additional information technology equipment and infrastructure investments.", "The Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company\u2019s stock.  These purchases may  be made in open market and negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending upon market conditions.    At June\u00a030, 2021, we had authorization to purchase an additional 464,618 shares.", "The Company repurchased 400,000 shares in fiscal 2021 at an average price per share of $100.22.  In fiscal 2020 no  shares were repurchased and in 2019, we repurchased 192,082 shares of the Company\u2019s common stock at an  average price per share of $58.10.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August\u00a031, 2021.  In March 2021, the Company amended the AR Securitization Facility to  expand the eligible receivables, which increased the maximum availability to $250.0 million and increased the drawn  fees on the AR Securitization Facility to 0.98% per year.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings  of our customers, customer concentration levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being  transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be able to fully access the $250.0 million of funding  available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s  borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The  Company uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively  reducing borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR.  The interest rate  on the AR Securitization Facility as of June\u00a030, 2021 and June\u00a030, 2020 was 1.20% and 1.07%, respectively.  The  termination date of the AR Securitization is now in March 2024.", "On a consolidated basis, DSO was 51.9 at June\u00a030, 2021 versus 55.9 at June\u00a030, 2020.  Approximately 3.0% of our  accounts receivable balances are more than 90 days past due at June\u00a030, 2021 compared to 4.6% at June\u00a030, 2020.  On an overall basis, our provision for losses from uncollected receivables represents 0.20% of our sales for the year  ended June\u00a030, 2021, compared to 0.43% of sales for the year ended June\u00a030, 2020.  The decrease primarily relates  to strong cash collections and an improvement in the overall credit profile of the accounts receivable portfolio in the  current year, compared to provisions recorded in the prior year for customer credit deterioration and bankruptcies  primarily in the U.S. and Mexican operations of the Service Center Based Distribution segment.  Historically, this  percentage is around 0.10% to 0.15%.  Management believes the overall receivables aging and provision for losses  on uncollected receivables are at reasonable levels.", "Inventories are valued using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories and the average cost method for  foreign inventories.  Management uses an inventory turnover ratio to monitor and evaluate inventory.  Management  calculates this ratio on an annual as well as a quarterly basis and uses inventory valued at average costs.  The  annualized inventory turnover (using average costs) for the year ended June\u00a030, 2021 was 4.3 versus 3.8 for the year  ended June\u00a030, 2020.  We believe our inventory turnover ratio in fiscal 2022 will be slightly better than our fiscal  2021 levels.", "Purchase orders for inventory and other goods and services are not included in our estimates as we are unable to  aggregate the amount of such purchase orders that represent enforceable and legally binding agreements specifying  all significant terms.  The previous table includes the gross liability for unrecognized income tax benefits including  interest and penalties in the \u201cOther\u201d column as the Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate regarding the  timing of cash settlements, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.", "Inventories are valued at the average cost method, using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories, and  the average cost method for foreign inventories.  We adopted the link chain dollar value LIFO method for accounting  for U.S. inventories in fiscal 1974.  Approximately 19.8% of our domestic inventory dollars relate to LIFO layers  added in the 1970s.  The excess of average cost over LIFO cost is $151.9 million as reflected in our consolidated  balance sheet at June\u00a030, 2021.  The Company maintains five LIFO pools based on the following product groupings:  bearings, power transmission products, rubber products, fluid power products and other products.", "We evaluate the collectibility of trade accounts receivable based on a combination of factors.  Initially, we estimate  an allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net sales based on historical bad debt experience.  This initial  estimate is adjusted based on recent trends of certain customers and industries estimated to be a greater credit risk,  trends within the entire customer pool and changes in the overall aging of accounts receivable.  While we have a  large customer base that is geographically dispersed, a general economic downturn in any of the industry segments  in which we operate could result in higher than expected defaults, and therefore, the need to revise estimates for  bad debts.  Accounts are written off against the allowance when it becomes evident that collection will not occur.", "As of June\u00a030, 2021 and 2020, our allowance for doubtful accounts was 3.1% and 2.9% of gross receivables,  respectively.  Our provision for losses on accounts receivable was $6.5 million, $14.1 million and $4.1 million in fiscal  2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.", "We evaluate goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually as of January 1, and whenever an event  occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting  unit is less than its carrying amount.  Events or circumstances that may result in an impairment review include  changes in macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial  performance, other relevant entity-specific events, specific events affecting the reporting unit or sustained decrease  in share price.  Each year, the Company may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is  more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.  If impairment is indicated in  the qualitative assessment, or, if management elects to initially perform a quantitative assessment of goodwill, the  impairment test uses a one-step approach.  The fair value of a reporting unit is compared with its carrying amount,  including goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit  is not impaired.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge would be", "Goodwill on our consolidated financial statements relates to both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and  the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Company has eight (8) reporting units for which an annual goodwill  impairment assessment was performed as of January 1, 2021.\u00a0 The Company concluded that seven (7) of the  reporting units\u2019 fair values exceeded their carrying amounts by at least 25% as of January 1, 2021.  The fair value of  the final reporting unit, which is comprised of the FCX Performance Inc. (FCX) operations, exceeded its carrying value  by 14%.  The FCX reporting unit has a goodwill balance of $309.0 million as of June\u00a030, 2021.", "We discuss certain of these matters and other risk factors more fully throughout our Form 10-K, as well as other of  our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.", "Our market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as changes in interest rates.   We occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use  derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.", "Because we operate throughout North America, Australia and New Zealand and approximately 14.0% of our fiscal  year 2021 net sales were generated outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates can impact our  financial position, results of operations and competitive position.  The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are  translated into their U.S. dollar equivalents at end-of-period exchange rates for assets and liabilities, while income  and expenses are translated at average monthly exchange rates.  Translation gains and losses are components of  other comprehensive income\u00a0as reported in the statements of consolidated comprehensive income.  Transaction  gains and losses arising from fluctuations in currency exchange rates on transactions denominated in currencies  other than the functional currency are recognized in the statements of consolidated income as a component of other  income, net.  Applied does not currently hedge the net investments in our foreign operations.", "Our primary exposure to interest rate risk results from our outstanding debt obligations with variable interest rates.  The levels of fees and interest charged on our various debt facilities are based upon leverage levels and market  interest rates.", "Our variable interest rate debt facilities outstanding include our five-year credit facility, which provides for a revolving  credit facility with a capacity of up to $250.0 million in borrowings with no balance outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021, a  $780.0 million term loan, of which $550.3 million was outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021, and a $188.3 million trade  receivable securitization facility, all of which was outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021.  In January 2019, the Company  entered into an interest rate swap on $463.0 million of the Company\u2019s U.S. dollar-denominated unsecured variable  rate debt.  The notional amount of the interest rate swap was $420.0 million as of June\u00a030, 2021.  The interest rate  swap effectively converts a portion of the floating rate interest payment into a fixed rate interest payment.  The  Company designated the interest rate swap as a pay-fixed, receive-floating interest rate swap instrument and is  accounting for this derivative as a cash flow hedge.  Fixed interest rate debt facilities include $90.0 million  outstanding under our unsecured shelf facility agreement, as well as $0.8 million of assumed debt from the purchase  of our headquarters facility.  We had total average variable interest rate bank borrowings of $739.3 million during  fiscal 2021.  The impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the interest rates on our average variable interest rate  bank borrowings (not considering the impact of our interest rate swap) would have resulted in a $7.4 million  increase in interest expense.  Due to the interest rate swap, the impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the  variable interest rate would have reduced net cash interest paid by $4.2 million.  Changes in market interest rates  would also impact interest rates on these facilities.", "For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the \u201cLiquidity and Capital Resources\u201d section of  \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\u201d in Item 7 and notes 6 and  7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  That information is also incorporated here by reference.  In  addition, see Item 1A, \u201cRisk Factors,\u201d for additional risk factors relating to our business.", "REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM", "These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an  opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits.  We are a public accounting firm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.", "We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material  misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.  Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material  misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to  those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the  financial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made  by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.  We believe that our audits  provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial  statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to  accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging,  subjective, or complex judgments.  The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on  the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing  a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.", "Our audit procedures related to the forecasts of future revenues and EBITDA (\u201cforecasts\u201d), and the selection of the  discount rate and selection of multiples applied to management\u2019s forecasted revenues and EBITDA estimates (\u201cmarket  multiples\u201d) for the FCX reporting unit included the following, among others: \u2022 We tested the effectiveness of controls over management\u2019s goodwill impairment evaluation, such as controls related to management\u2019s forecasts and the selection of the discount rate and market multiples used. \u2022 We evaluated management\u2019s ability to accurately forecast by comparing actual results to management\u2019s historical forecasts. \u2022 We evaluated the reasonableness of management\u2019s forecasts by comparing the forecasts to (1) historical results, (2) internal communications to management and the Board of Directors, and (3) forecasted information included in industry reports for the various industries the reporting unit operates within. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the discount rate, including testing the underlying source information and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, and developing a range of independent estimates and comparing those to the discount rate selected by management. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the market multiples by evaluating the selected comparable publicly traded companies and the adjustments made for differences in growth prospects and risk profiles between the reporting unit and the comparable publicly traded companies.  We tested the underlying source information and mathematical accuracy of the calculations. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the fair value of the reporting unit based upon reconciling the fair value of the reporting unit to the market capitalization of the Company.", "We have served as the Company's auditor since 1966.", "The difference between the opening and closing balances of the Company's contract assets primarily results from  the timing difference between the Company's performance and when the customer is billed.", "Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment when changes in conditions indicate  carrying value may not be recoverable.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August\u00a031, 2021.  On March 26, 2021, the Company amended the AR Securitization  Facility to expand the eligible receivables, which increased the maximum availability to $250,000 and increased the  drawn fees on the AR Securitization Facility to 0.98% per year.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit  ratings of our customers, customer concentration levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being  transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be able to fully access the $250,000 of funding available  under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing  capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The Company  uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively reducing  borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR.  The interest rate on the AR  Securitization Facility as of June\u00a030, 2021 and June\u00a030, 2020 was 1.20% and 1.07%, respectively.  The termination  date of the AR Securitization is now March\u00a026, 2024.", "We have evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to June\u00a030, 2021 through the date the financial  statements were issued.", "CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING", "Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting None.", "We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries  (the \u201cCompany\u201d) as of June\u00a030, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  In our opinion, the  Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of June\u00a030, 2021,  based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United  States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended June\u00a030, 2021, of the Company  and our report dated August 17, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements  and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's adoption of a new accounting standard related to  leases.", "The Company\u2019s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its  assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management\u2019s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the  Company\u2019s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We are a public accounting firm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was  maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial  reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered  necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "Applied has a code of ethics, named the Code of Business Ethics, that applies to our employees, including our  principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer.  The Code of Business Ethics is  posted via hyperlink at the investor relations area of our www.applied.com website.  In addition, amendments to  and waivers from the Code of Business Ethics will be disclosed promptly at the same location.", "Pursuant to the requirements of Section\u00a013 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this  report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.", "Applied intends that such forward-looking  statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby.", "Fiscal 2021 was characterized by an evolving environment in which we demonstrated and  strengthened our ability to adapt and respond.", "Our performance since then provides  confirmation of this position, including generating record earnings, significant cash flow, and expanding margins through the year,  while further strengthening our balance sheet.", "We are proud and grateful to contribute to society\u2019s recovery!", "We recognize that building on our legacy also means being a responsible corporate citizen.", "The information available via hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K.", "growth in more profitable areas of our business and our history of cost accountability, we see ongoing  opportunity to optimize our margin profile and cash generation in coming years.", "Compensation and Benefits.  We seek to provide competitive compensation and benefits in order to help attract  and retain high quality associates.  In the U.S., Applied offers comprehensive benefits with choices to fit our  associates\u2019 varied needs, including the following: medical, dental, vision, and prescription drug insurance; short and  long-term disability benefits; life insurance plans; Section 401(k) retirement savings plan with company match; paid  vacations and holidays; incentive programs; an employee assistance program; and an educational reimbursement  program.", "We require substantial working capital related to accounts receivable and inventories.  Significant amounts of  inventory are carried to meet customers' delivery requirements.  We generally require payments for sales on account  within 30 days.  Returns are not considered to have a material effect on our working capital requirements.  We  believe these practices are generally consistent among companies in our industry.", "Additional risks not currently known to us, risks that could apply broadly to issuers, or risks that we  currently deem immaterial, may also impact our business and operations.  Risks can also change over time.  Further,  the disclosure of a risk should not be interpreted to imply that the risk has not already materialized.", "Our foreign operations' results are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable  exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements.  Fluctuations in currency exchange rates affect  our operating results and financial position, as well as the comparability of results between financial periods.", "In addition, as a distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors  generally, or us in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts us.  For example, key suppliers could change the  following: the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing brands; the  geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations; supplier purchasing incentive or other support  programs; product purchase or stocking expectations; or the extent to which the suppliers seek to serve end users  directly.", "The purchasing incentives we earn from product suppliers can be impacted if we reduce our purchases in  response to declining customer demand.  Certain product suppliers have historically offered to their distributors,  including us, incentives for purchasing their products.  In addition to market or customer account-specific incentives,  certain suppliers pay incentives to the distributor for attaining specific purchase volumes during a program period.    In some cases, to earn incentives, we must achieve year-over-year growth in purchases with the supplier.  When  demand for our products declines, we may be less inclined to add inventory to take advantage of certain incentive  programs, thereby potentially adversely impacting our profitability.", "proprietary or confidential information, or the breach of customer, supplier, or employee information.  A security  incident involving our systems, or even an inadvertent failure to comply with data privacy and security laws and  regulations, could negatively impact our sales, damage our reputation, and cause us to incur unanticipated legal  liability, remediation costs, and other losses and expenses.", "Further, even if we successfully integrate the acquisitions with our operations, we may not be able to realize cost  savings, sales, profit levels, or other benefits that we anticipate from these acquisitions, either as to amount or in the  time frame we expect.  Our ability to realize anticipated benefits may be affected by a number of factors, including  the following: our ability to achieve planned operating results, to reduce duplicative expenses and inventory  effectively, and to consolidate facilities; economic and market factors; the incurrence of significant integration costs  or charges in order to achieve those benefits; our ability to retain key product supplier authorizations, customer  relationships, and employees; our ability to address competitive, distribution, and regulatory challenges arising from  entering into new markets (geographic, product, service, end-industry, or otherwise), especially those in which we  may have limited or no direct experience; and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired  company.  In addition, acquisitions could place significant demand on administrative, operational, and financial  resources.", "Our indebtedness entails debt service commitments that could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our  obligations and could limit or reduce our flexibility.  As of June 30, 2021, we had total debt obligations  outstanding of $829.4 million.  Our ability to service our debt and fund our other liquidity needs will depend on our  ability to generate cash in the future.  Our debt commitments may (i) require us to dedicate a substantial portion of  our cash flows from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund  planned capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase our shares, complete other acquisitions or strategic  initiatives, and other general corporate purposes; (ii) limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future  (either at all or on satisfactory terms) to enable us to react to changes in our business or execute our growth  strategies; and (iii) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have lower  levels of indebtedness.  Additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt  could result in an event of default.  Any of the foregoing events or circumstances relating to our indebtedness may  adversely affect our business, financial position, or results of operations and may cause our stock price to decline.", "Although the credit market turmoil of a decade ago did not have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity or  borrowing costs, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt increased.  If credit market  volatility were to return, obtaining additional or replacement financing could be more difficult and the cost of issuing  new debt or replacing a credit facility could be higher than under our current facilities.  Tight credit conditions could  limit our ability to finance acquisitions on terms acceptable to us.", "Our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may be insufficient to allow us to  accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our financial statements to  become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  We require  effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our  financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.  Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect  misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or  overriding of controls, or fraud.  Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance  with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements.  If we cannot provide reasonable  assurance with respect to our financial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our financial statements could be  materially misstated, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.", "If we are not able to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to  implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business,  financial condition and operating results could be harmed.  Any material weakness could affect investor confidence  in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements.  As a result, our ability to obtain any additional  financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected.  This, in turn, could  materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and the market value of our stock and require us to  incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures.  In addition, perceptions of the  Company among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts, and others could also be adversely  affected.", "Goodwill, long-lived, and other intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become  impaired.  We review goodwill, long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identifiable  amortizing intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the  carrying amounts are not recoverable.  Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include  significant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, significant  underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset  before the end of its estimated useful life.  In 2021, we recorded a $49.5 million non-cash charge for the impairment  of certain intangible, lease, and fixed assets.", "As of June 30, 2021, we had remaining $560.1 million of goodwill and $279.6 million of other intangible assets,  net.  We assess all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment on a reporting unit basis.  The techniques used  in our qualitative assessment and goodwill impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that  are subject to change.  Although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and reflect market  conditions forecasted at the assessment date, any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market  conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods.", "We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method by which LIBOR is  determined.  As of June 30, 2021, we had approximately $738.6 million of aggregate consolidated indebtedness  that was indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate (\u201cLIBOR\u201d).  As of June 30, 2021, approximately $420.0  million of this variable rate debt was converted to a fixed rate through an interest rate swap.  The swap agreement,  entered into in January 2019 and subsequently amended and extended, is indexed to LIBOR.  The U.K.", "However, in March 2021, the FCA proposed to extend publication of the most  commonly used U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors, including those tenors most relevant to us, through June 30, 2023.  Any of  our LIBOR-based borrowings that extend beyond June 30, 2023 will need to be converted to a replacement rate  prior to that date.", "Regulators and industry groups have identified recommended alternatives for certain reference  rates, but there continues to be considerable uncertainty about what benchmark or benchmarks will replace LIBOR  and when that will occur.  The full impact of the transition away from LIBOR remains unclear, but the transition and  related changes may have a material adverse impact on the availability of financing and on our financing costs.", "We are subject to legal, regulatory, and litigation risks, which may have a material adverse effect on our  business.", "We are subject to a wide array of laws and regulations.  Changes in the legal and regulatory environment  in which we operate, including with respect to taxes, international trade, employment laws, and data privacy, could  adversely and materially affect the Company.", "In addition, from time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings that arise from our business.   These may, for example, relate to product liability claims, commercial disputes, personal injuries, or employment- related matters.  In addition, we could face claims or additional costs arising from our compliance with regulatory  requirements, including those relating to the following: our status as a public company; our government contracts;  tax compliance; our engagement in international trade; and our collection, storage, or transmission of personal data.", "We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities  associated with our business.  The policies are subject to limits, deductibles, and exclusions that result in our  retention of a level of risk on a self-insured basis.   The defense and ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings or inquiries may result in higher operating  expenses, the inability to participate in existing or future government contacts, or other adverse consequences,  which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.", "Applied and/or one of its subsidiaries is a party to pending legal proceedings with respect to product liability,  commercial, personal injury, employment, and other matters.  Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of  these proceedings or the range of reasonably possible loss, we do not expect, based on circumstances currently  known, that the ultimate resolution of any of these proceedings will have, either individually or in the aggregate, a  material adverse effect on Applied's consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.", "Our earnings per share was $3.68 in fiscal 2021 versus $0.62 in fiscal year 2020.", "This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated financial statements for  the years ended June\u00a030, 2021 and 2020.  For the comparison of the years ended June\u00a030, 2020 and 2019, see the  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2020  Annual Report on Form 10-K.", "Our primary source of capital is cash flow from operations, supplemented as necessary by bank borrowings or other  sources of debt.  At June\u00a030, 2021 we had total debt obligations outstanding of $829.4 million compared to $935.3  million at June\u00a030, 2020.  Management expects that our existing cash, cash equivalents, funds available under our  debt facilities, and cash provided from operations, will be sufficient to finance normal working capital needs in each  of the countries we operate in, payment of dividends, acquisitions, investments in properties, facilities and  equipment, debt service, and the purchase of additional Company common stock.  Management also believes that  additional long-term debt and line of credit financing could be obtained based on the Company\u2019s credit standing  and financial strength.", "The increase in dividends over the year is the result of regular increases in our dividend payout rates.  We paid  dividends of $1.30 and $1.26 per share in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  We expect capital expenditures for fiscal 2022 to be in the $18.0\u00a0million to $20.0 million range, primarily consisting  of capital associated with additional information technology equipment and infrastructure investments.", "The Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company\u2019s stock.  These purchases may  be made in open market and negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending upon market conditions.    At June\u00a030, 2021, we had authorization to purchase an additional 464,618 shares.", "The Company repurchased 400,000 shares in fiscal 2021 at an average price per share of $100.22.  In fiscal 2020 no  shares were repurchased and in 2019, we repurchased 192,082 shares of the Company\u2019s common stock at an  average price per share of $58.10.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August\u00a031, 2021.  In March 2021, the Company amended the AR Securitization Facility to  expand the eligible receivables, which increased the maximum availability to $250.0 million and increased the drawn  fees on the AR Securitization Facility to 0.98% per year.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings  of our customers, customer concentration levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being  transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be able to fully access the $250.0 million of funding  available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s  borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The  Company uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively  reducing borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR.  The interest rate  on the AR Securitization Facility as of June\u00a030, 2021 and June\u00a030, 2020 was 1.20% and 1.07%, respectively.  The  termination date of the AR Securitization is now in March 2024.", "On a consolidated basis, DSO was 51.9 at June\u00a030, 2021 versus 55.9 at June\u00a030, 2020.  Approximately 3.0% of our  accounts receivable balances are more than 90 days past due at June\u00a030, 2021 compared to 4.6% at June\u00a030, 2020.  On an overall basis, our provision for losses from uncollected receivables represents 0.20% of our sales for the year  ended June\u00a030, 2021, compared to 0.43% of sales for the year ended June\u00a030, 2020.  The decrease primarily relates  to strong cash collections and an improvement in the overall credit profile of the accounts receivable portfolio in the  current year, compared to provisions recorded in the prior year for customer credit deterioration and bankruptcies  primarily in the U.S. and Mexican operations of the Service Center Based Distribution segment.  Historically, this  percentage is around 0.10% to 0.15%.  Management believes the overall receivables aging and provision for losses  on uncollected receivables are at reasonable levels.", "Inventories are valued using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories and the average cost method for  foreign inventories.  Management uses an inventory turnover ratio to monitor and evaluate inventory.  Management  calculates this ratio on an annual as well as a quarterly basis and uses inventory valued at average costs.  The  annualized inventory turnover (using average costs) for the year ended June\u00a030, 2021 was 4.3 versus 3.8 for the year  ended June\u00a030, 2020.  We believe our inventory turnover ratio in fiscal 2022 will be slightly better than our fiscal  2021 levels.", "Purchase orders for inventory and other goods and services are not included in our estimates as we are unable to  aggregate the amount of such purchase orders that represent enforceable and legally binding agreements specifying  all significant terms.  The previous table includes the gross liability for unrecognized income tax benefits including  interest and penalties in the \u201cOther\u201d column as the Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate regarding the  timing of cash settlements, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.", "Inventories are valued at the average cost method, using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories, and  the average cost method for foreign inventories.  We adopted the link chain dollar value LIFO method for accounting  for U.S. inventories in fiscal 1974.  Approximately 19.8% of our domestic inventory dollars relate to LIFO layers  added in the 1970s.  The excess of average cost over LIFO cost is $151.9 million as reflected in our consolidated  balance sheet at June\u00a030, 2021.  The Company maintains five LIFO pools based on the following product groupings:  bearings, power transmission products, rubber products, fluid power products and other products.", "We evaluate the collectibility of trade accounts receivable based on a combination of factors.  Initially, we estimate  an allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net sales based on historical bad debt experience.  This initial  estimate is adjusted based on recent trends of certain customers and industries estimated to be a greater credit risk,  trends within the entire customer pool and changes in the overall aging of accounts receivable.  While we have a  large customer base that is geographically dispersed, a general economic downturn in any of the industry segments  in which we operate could result in higher than expected defaults, and therefore, the need to revise estimates for  bad debts.  Accounts are written off against the allowance when it becomes evident that collection will not occur.", "As of June\u00a030, 2021 and 2020, our allowance for doubtful accounts was 3.1% and 2.9% of gross receivables,  respectively.  Our provision for losses on accounts receivable was $6.5 million, $14.1 million and $4.1 million in fiscal  2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.", "We evaluate goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually as of January 1, and whenever an event  occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting  unit is less than its carrying amount.  Events or circumstances that may result in an impairment review include  changes in macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial  performance, other relevant entity-specific events, specific events affecting the reporting unit or sustained decrease  in share price.  Each year, the Company may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is  more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.  If impairment is indicated in  the qualitative assessment, or, if management elects to initially perform a quantitative assessment of goodwill, the  impairment test uses a one-step approach.  The fair value of a reporting unit is compared with its carrying amount,  including goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit  is not impaired.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge would be", "Goodwill on our consolidated financial statements relates to both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and  the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Company has eight (8) reporting units for which an annual goodwill  impairment assessment was performed as of January 1, 2021.\u00a0 The Company concluded that seven (7) of the  reporting units\u2019 fair values exceeded their carrying amounts by at least 25% as of January 1, 2021.  The fair value of  the final reporting unit, which is comprised of the FCX Performance Inc. (FCX) operations, exceeded its carrying value  by 14%.  The FCX reporting unit has a goodwill balance of $309.0 million as of June\u00a030, 2021.", "We discuss certain of these matters and other risk factors more fully throughout our Form 10-K, as well as other of  our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.", "Our market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as changes in interest rates.   We occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use  derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.", "Because we operate throughout North America, Australia and New Zealand and approximately 14.0% of our fiscal  year 2021 net sales were generated outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates can impact our  financial position, results of operations and competitive position.  The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are  translated into their U.S. dollar equivalents at end-of-period exchange rates for assets and liabilities, while income  and expenses are translated at average monthly exchange rates.  Translation gains and losses are components of  other comprehensive income\u00a0as reported in the statements of consolidated comprehensive income.  Transaction  gains and losses arising from fluctuations in currency exchange rates on transactions denominated in currencies  other than the functional currency are recognized in the statements of consolidated income as a component of other  income, net.  Applied does not currently hedge the net investments in our foreign operations.", "Our primary exposure to interest rate risk results from our outstanding debt obligations with variable interest rates.  The levels of fees and interest charged on our various debt facilities are based upon leverage levels and market  interest rates.", "Our variable interest rate debt facilities outstanding include our five-year credit facility, which provides for a revolving  credit facility with a capacity of up to $250.0 million in borrowings with no balance outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021, a  $780.0 million term loan, of which $550.3 million was outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021, and a $188.3 million trade  receivable securitization facility, all of which was outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021.  In January 2019, the Company  entered into an interest rate swap on $463.0 million of the Company\u2019s U.S. dollar-denominated unsecured variable  rate debt.  The notional amount of the interest rate swap was $420.0 million as of June\u00a030, 2021.  The interest rate  swap effectively converts a portion of the floating rate interest payment into a fixed rate interest payment.  The  Company designated the interest rate swap as a pay-fixed, receive-floating interest rate swap instrument and is  accounting for this derivative as a cash flow hedge.  Fixed interest rate debt facilities include $90.0 million  outstanding under our unsecured shelf facility agreement, as well as $0.8 million of assumed debt from the purchase  of our headquarters facility.  We had total average variable interest rate bank borrowings of $739.3 million during  fiscal 2021.  The impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the interest rates on our average variable interest rate  bank borrowings (not considering the impact of our interest rate swap) would have resulted in a $7.4 million  increase in interest expense.  Due to the interest rate swap, the impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the  variable interest rate would have reduced net cash interest paid by $4.2 million.  Changes in market interest rates  would also impact interest rates on these facilities.", "For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the \u201cLiquidity and Capital Resources\u201d section of  \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\u201d in Item 7 and notes 6 and  7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  That information is also incorporated here by reference.  In  addition, see Item 1A, \u201cRisk Factors,\u201d for additional risk factors relating to our business.", "REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM", "These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an  opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits.  We are a public accounting firm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.", "We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material  misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.  Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material  misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to  those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the  financial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made  by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.  We believe that our audits  provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial  statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to  accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging,  subjective, or complex judgments.  The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on  the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing  a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.", "Our audit procedures related to the forecasts of future revenues and EBITDA (\u201cforecasts\u201d), and the selection of the  discount rate and selection of multiples applied to management\u2019s forecasted revenues and EBITDA estimates (\u201cmarket  multiples\u201d) for the FCX reporting unit included the following, among others: \u2022 We tested the effectiveness of controls over management\u2019s goodwill impairment evaluation, such as controls related to management\u2019s forecasts and the selection of the discount rate and market multiples used. \u2022 We evaluated management\u2019s ability to accurately forecast by comparing actual results to management\u2019s historical forecasts. \u2022 We evaluated the reasonableness of management\u2019s forecasts by comparing the forecasts to (1) historical results, (2) internal communications to management and the Board of Directors, and (3) forecasted information included in industry reports for the various industries the reporting unit operates within. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the discount rate, including testing the underlying source information and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, and developing a range of independent estimates and comparing those to the discount rate selected by management. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the market multiples by evaluating the selected comparable publicly traded companies and the adjustments made for differences in growth prospects and risk profiles between the reporting unit and the comparable publicly traded companies.  We tested the underlying source information and mathematical accuracy of the calculations. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the fair value of the reporting unit based upon reconciling the fair value of the reporting unit to the market capitalization of the Company.", "We have served as the Company's auditor since 1966.", "The difference between the opening and closing balances of the Company's contract assets primarily results from  the timing difference between the Company's performance and when the customer is billed.", "Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment when changes in conditions indicate  carrying value may not be recoverable.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August\u00a031, 2021.  On March 26, 2021, the Company amended the AR Securitization  Facility to expand the eligible receivables, which increased the maximum availability to $250,000 and increased the  drawn fees on the AR Securitization Facility to 0.98% per year.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit  ratings of our customers, customer concentration levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being  transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be able to fully access the $250,000 of funding available  under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing  capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The Company  uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively reducing  borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR.  The interest rate on the AR  Securitization Facility as of June\u00a030, 2021 and June\u00a030, 2020 was 1.20% and 1.07%, respectively.  The termination  date of the AR Securitization is now March\u00a026, 2024.", "We have evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to June\u00a030, 2021 through the date the financial  statements were issued.", "CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING", "Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting None.", "We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries  (the \u201cCompany\u201d) as of June\u00a030, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  In our opinion, the  Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of June\u00a030, 2021,  based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United  States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended June\u00a030, 2021, of the Company  and our report dated August 17, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements  and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's adoption of a new accounting standard related to  leases.", "The Company\u2019s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its  assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management\u2019s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the  Company\u2019s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We are a public accounting firm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was  maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial  reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered  necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "Applied has a code of ethics, named the Code of Business Ethics, that applies to our employees, including our  principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer.  The Code of Business Ethics is  posted via hyperlink at the investor relations area of our www.applied.com website.  In addition, amendments to  and waivers from the Code of Business Ethics will be disclosed promptly at the same location.", "Pursuant to the requirements of Section\u00a013 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this  report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.", "Applied intends that such forward-looking  statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby.", "Fiscal 2021 was characterized by an evolving environment in which we demonstrated and  strengthened our ability to adapt and respond.", "Our performance since then provides  confirmation of this position, including generating record earnings, significant cash flow, and expanding margins through the year,  while further strengthening our balance sheet.", "We are proud and grateful to contribute to society\u2019s recovery!", "We recognize that building on our legacy also means being a responsible corporate citizen.", "The information available via hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K.", "growth in more profitable areas of our business and our history of cost accountability, we see ongoing  opportunity to optimize our margin profile and cash generation in coming years.", "Compensation and Benefits.  We seek to provide competitive compensation and benefits in order to help attract  and retain high quality associates.  In the U.S., Applied offers comprehensive benefits with choices to fit our  associates\u2019 varied needs, including the following: medical, dental, vision, and prescription drug insurance; short and  long-term disability benefits; life insurance plans; Section 401(k) retirement savings plan with company match; paid  vacations and holidays; incentive programs; an employee assistance program; and an educational reimbursement  program.", "We require substantial working capital related to accounts receivable and inventories.  Significant amounts of  inventory are carried to meet customers' delivery requirements.  We generally require payments for sales on account  within 30 days.  Returns are not considered to have a material effect on our working capital requirements.  We  believe these practices are generally consistent among companies in our industry.", "Additional risks not currently known to us, risks that could apply broadly to issuers, or risks that we  currently deem immaterial, may also impact our business and operations.  Risks can also change over time.  Further,  the disclosure of a risk should not be interpreted to imply that the risk has not already materialized.", "Our foreign operations' results are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable  exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements.  Fluctuations in currency exchange rates affect  our operating results and financial position, as well as the comparability of results between financial periods.", "In addition, as a distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors  generally, or us in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts us.  For example, key suppliers could change the  following: the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing brands; the  geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations; supplier purchasing incentive or other support  programs; product purchase or stocking expectations; or the extent to which the suppliers seek to serve end users  directly.", "The purchasing incentives we earn from product suppliers can be impacted if we reduce our purchases in  response to declining customer demand.  Certain product suppliers have historically offered to their distributors,  including us, incentives for purchasing their products.  In addition to market or customer account-specific incentives,  certain suppliers pay incentives to the distributor for attaining specific purchase volumes during a program period.    In some cases, to earn incentives, we must achieve year-over-year growth in purchases with the supplier.  When  demand for our products declines, we may be less inclined to add inventory to take advantage of certain incentive  programs, thereby potentially adversely impacting our profitability.", "proprietary or confidential information, or the breach of customer, supplier, or employee information.  A security  incident involving our systems, or even an inadvertent failure to comply with data privacy and security laws and  regulations, could negatively impact our sales, damage our reputation, and cause us to incur unanticipated legal  liability, remediation costs, and other losses and expenses.", "Further, even if we successfully integrate the acquisitions with our operations, we may not be able to realize cost  savings, sales, profit levels, or other benefits that we anticipate from these acquisitions, either as to amount or in the  time frame we expect.  Our ability to realize anticipated benefits may be affected by a number of factors, including  the following: our ability to achieve planned operating results, to reduce duplicative expenses and inventory  effectively, and to consolidate facilities; economic and market factors; the incurrence of significant integration costs  or charges in order to achieve those benefits; our ability to retain key product supplier authorizations, customer  relationships, and employees; our ability to address competitive, distribution, and regulatory challenges arising from  entering into new markets (geographic, product, service, end-industry, or otherwise), especially those in which we  may have limited or no direct experience; and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired  company.  In addition, acquisitions could place significant demand on administrative, operational, and financial  resources.", "Our indebtedness entails debt service commitments that could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our  obligations and could limit or reduce our flexibility.  As of June 30, 2021, we had total debt obligations  outstanding of $829.4 million.  Our ability to service our debt and fund our other liquidity needs will depend on our  ability to generate cash in the future.  Our debt commitments may (i) require us to dedicate a substantial portion of  our cash flows from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund  planned capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase our shares, complete other acquisitions or strategic  initiatives, and other general corporate purposes; (ii) limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future  (either at all or on satisfactory terms) to enable us to react to changes in our business or execute our growth  strategies; and (iii) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have lower  levels of indebtedness.  Additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt  could result in an event of default.  Any of the foregoing events or circumstances relating to our indebtedness may  adversely affect our business, financial position, or results of operations and may cause our stock price to decline.", "Although the credit market turmoil of a decade ago did not have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity or  borrowing costs, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt increased.  If credit market  volatility were to return, obtaining additional or replacement financing could be more difficult and the cost of issuing  new debt or replacing a credit facility could be higher than under our current facilities.  Tight credit conditions could  limit our ability to finance acquisitions on terms acceptable to us.", "Our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may be insufficient to allow us to  accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our financial statements to  become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  We require  effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our  financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.  Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect  misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or  overriding of controls, or fraud.  Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance  with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements.  If we cannot provide reasonable  assurance with respect to our financial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our financial statements could be  materially misstated, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.", "If we are not able to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to  implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business,  financial condition and operating results could be harmed.  Any material weakness could affect investor confidence  in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements.  As a result, our ability to obtain any additional  financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected.  This, in turn, could  materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and the market value of our stock and require us to  incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures.  In addition, perceptions of the  Company among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts, and others could also be adversely  affected.", "Goodwill, long-lived, and other intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become  impaired.  We review goodwill, long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identifiable  amortizing intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the  carrying amounts are not recoverable.  Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include  significant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, significant  underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset  before the end of its estimated useful life.  In 2021, we recorded a $49.5 million non-cash charge for the impairment  of certain intangible, lease, and fixed assets.", "As of June 30, 2021, we had remaining $560.1 million of goodwill and $279.6 million of other intangible assets,  net.  We assess all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment on a reporting unit basis.  The techniques used  in our qualitative assessment and goodwill impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that  are subject to change.  Although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and reflect market  conditions forecasted at the assessment date, any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market  conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods.", "We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method by which LIBOR is  determined.  As of June 30, 2021, we had approximately $738.6 million of aggregate consolidated indebtedness  that was indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate (\u201cLIBOR\u201d).  As of June 30, 2021, approximately $420.0  million of this variable rate debt was converted to a fixed rate through an interest rate swap.  The swap agreement,  entered into in January 2019 and subsequently amended and extended, is indexed to LIBOR.  The U.K.", "However, in March 2021, the FCA proposed to extend publication of the most  commonly used U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors, including those tenors most relevant to us, through June 30, 2023.  Any of  our LIBOR-based borrowings that extend beyond June 30, 2023 will need to be converted to a replacement rate  prior to that date.", "Regulators and industry groups have identified recommended alternatives for certain reference  rates, but there continues to be considerable uncertainty about what benchmark or benchmarks will replace LIBOR  and when that will occur.  The full impact of the transition away from LIBOR remains unclear, but the transition and  related changes may have a material adverse impact on the availability of financing and on our financing costs.", "We are subject to legal, regulatory, and litigation risks, which may have a material adverse effect on our  business.", "We are subject to a wide array of laws and regulations.  Changes in the legal and regulatory environment  in which we operate, including with respect to taxes, international trade, employment laws, and data privacy, could  adversely and materially affect the Company.", "In addition, from time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings that arise from our business.   These may, for example, relate to product liability claims, commercial disputes, personal injuries, or employment- related matters.  In addition, we could face claims or additional costs arising from our compliance with regulatory  requirements, including those relating to the following: our status as a public company; our government contracts;  tax compliance; our engagement in international trade; and our collection, storage, or transmission of personal data.", "We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities  associated with our business.  The policies are subject to limits, deductibles, and exclusions that result in our  retention of a level of risk on a self-insured basis.   The defense and ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings or inquiries may result in higher operating  expenses, the inability to participate in existing or future government contacts, or other adverse consequences,  which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.", "Applied and/or one of its subsidiaries is a party to pending legal proceedings with respect to product liability,  commercial, personal injury, employment, and other matters.  Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of  these proceedings or the range of reasonably possible loss, we do not expect, based on circumstances currently  known, that the ultimate resolution of any of these proceedings will have, either individually or in the aggregate, a  material adverse effect on Applied's consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.", "Our earnings per share was $3.68 in fiscal 2021 versus $0.62 in fiscal year 2020.", "This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated financial statements for  the years ended June\u00a030, 2021 and 2020.  For the comparison of the years ended June\u00a030, 2020 and 2019, see the  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2020  Annual Report on Form 10-K.", "Our primary source of capital is cash flow from operations, supplemented as necessary by bank borrowings or other  sources of debt.  At June\u00a030, 2021 we had total debt obligations outstanding of $829.4 million compared to $935.3  million at June\u00a030, 2020.  Management expects that our existing cash, cash equivalents, funds available under our  debt facilities, and cash provided from operations, will be sufficient to finance normal working capital needs in each  of the countries we operate in, payment of dividends, acquisitions, investments in properties, facilities and  equipment, debt service, and the purchase of additional Company common stock.  Management also believes that  additional long-term debt and line of credit financing could be obtained based on the Company\u2019s credit standing  and financial strength.", "The increase in dividends over the year is the result of regular increases in our dividend payout rates.  We paid  dividends of $1.30 and $1.26 per share in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  We expect capital expenditures for fiscal 2022 to be in the $18.0\u00a0million to $20.0 million range, primarily consisting  of capital associated with additional information technology equipment and infrastructure investments.", "The Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company\u2019s stock.  These purchases may  be made in open market and negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending upon market conditions.    At June\u00a030, 2021, we had authorization to purchase an additional 464,618 shares.", "The Company repurchased 400,000 shares in fiscal 2021 at an average price per share of $100.22.  In fiscal 2020 no  shares were repurchased and in 2019, we repurchased 192,082 shares of the Company\u2019s common stock at an  average price per share of $58.10.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August\u00a031, 2021.  In March 2021, the Company amended the AR Securitization Facility to  expand the eligible receivables, which increased the maximum availability to $250.0 million and increased the drawn  fees on the AR Securitization Facility to 0.98% per year.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings  of our customers, customer concentration levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being  transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be able to fully access the $250.0 million of funding  available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s  borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The  Company uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively  reducing borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR.  The interest rate  on the AR Securitization Facility as of June\u00a030, 2021 and June\u00a030, 2020 was 1.20% and 1.07%, respectively.  The  termination date of the AR Securitization is now in March 2024.", "On a consolidated basis, DSO was 51.9 at June\u00a030, 2021 versus 55.9 at June\u00a030, 2020.  Approximately 3.0% of our  accounts receivable balances are more than 90 days past due at June\u00a030, 2021 compared to 4.6% at June\u00a030, 2020.  On an overall basis, our provision for losses from uncollected receivables represents 0.20% of our sales for the year  ended June\u00a030, 2021, compared to 0.43% of sales for the year ended June\u00a030, 2020.  The decrease primarily relates  to strong cash collections and an improvement in the overall credit profile of the accounts receivable portfolio in the  current year, compared to provisions recorded in the prior year for customer credit deterioration and bankruptcies  primarily in the U.S. and Mexican operations of the Service Center Based Distribution segment.  Historically, this  percentage is around 0.10% to 0.15%.  Management believes the overall receivables aging and provision for losses  on uncollected receivables are at reasonable levels.", "Inventories are valued using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories and the average cost method for  foreign inventories.  Management uses an inventory turnover ratio to monitor and evaluate inventory.  Management  calculates this ratio on an annual as well as a quarterly basis and uses inventory valued at average costs.  The  annualized inventory turnover (using average costs) for the year ended June\u00a030, 2021 was 4.3 versus 3.8 for the year  ended June\u00a030, 2020.  We believe our inventory turnover ratio in fiscal 2022 will be slightly better than our fiscal  2021 levels.", "Purchase orders for inventory and other goods and services are not included in our estimates as we are unable to  aggregate the amount of such purchase orders that represent enforceable and legally binding agreements specifying  all significant terms.  The previous table includes the gross liability for unrecognized income tax benefits including  interest and penalties in the \u201cOther\u201d column as the Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate regarding the  timing of cash settlements, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.", "Inventories are valued at the average cost method, using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories, and  the average cost method for foreign inventories.  We adopted the link chain dollar value LIFO method for accounting  for U.S. inventories in fiscal 1974.  Approximately 19.8% of our domestic inventory dollars relate to LIFO layers  added in the 1970s.  The excess of average cost over LIFO cost is $151.9 million as reflected in our consolidated  balance sheet at June\u00a030, 2021.  The Company maintains five LIFO pools based on the following product groupings:  bearings, power transmission products, rubber products, fluid power products and other products.", "We evaluate the collectibility of trade accounts receivable based on a combination of factors.  Initially, we estimate  an allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net sales based on historical bad debt experience.  This initial  estimate is adjusted based on recent trends of certain customers and industries estimated to be a greater credit risk,  trends within the entire customer pool and changes in the overall aging of accounts receivable.  While we have a  large customer base that is geographically dispersed, a general economic downturn in any of the industry segments  in which we operate could result in higher than expected defaults, and therefore, the need to revise estimates for  bad debts.  Accounts are written off against the allowance when it becomes evident that collection will not occur.", "As of June\u00a030, 2021 and 2020, our allowance for doubtful accounts was 3.1% and 2.9% of gross receivables,  respectively.  Our provision for losses on accounts receivable was $6.5 million, $14.1 million and $4.1 million in fiscal  2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.", "We evaluate goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually as of January 1, and whenever an event  occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting  unit is less than its carrying amount.  Events or circumstances that may result in an impairment review include  changes in macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial  performance, other relevant entity-specific events, specific events affecting the reporting unit or sustained decrease  in share price.  Each year, the Company may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is  more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.  If impairment is indicated in  the qualitative assessment, or, if management elects to initially perform a quantitative assessment of goodwill, the  impairment test uses a one-step approach.  The fair value of a reporting unit is compared with its carrying amount,  including goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit  is not impaired.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge would be", "Goodwill on our consolidated financial statements relates to both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and  the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Company has eight (8) reporting units for which an annual goodwill  impairment assessment was performed as of January 1, 2021.\u00a0 The Company concluded that seven (7) of the  reporting units\u2019 fair values exceeded their carrying amounts by at least 25% as of January 1, 2021.  The fair value of  the final reporting unit, which is comprised of the FCX Performance Inc. (FCX) operations, exceeded its carrying value  by 14%.  The FCX reporting unit has a goodwill balance of $309.0 million as of June\u00a030, 2021.", "We discuss certain of these matters and other risk factors more fully throughout our Form 10-K, as well as other of  our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.", "Our market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as changes in interest rates.   We occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use  derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.", "Because we operate throughout North America, Australia and New Zealand and approximately 14.0% of our fiscal  year 2021 net sales were generated outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates can impact our  financial position, results of operations and competitive position.  The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are  translated into their U.S. dollar equivalents at end-of-period exchange rates for assets and liabilities, while income  and expenses are translated at average monthly exchange rates.  Translation gains and losses are components of  other comprehensive income\u00a0as reported in the statements of consolidated comprehensive income.  Transaction  gains and losses arising from fluctuations in currency exchange rates on transactions denominated in currencies  other than the functional currency are recognized in the statements of consolidated income as a component of other  income, net.  Applied does not currently hedge the net investments in our foreign operations.", "Our primary exposure to interest rate risk results from our outstanding debt obligations with variable interest rates.  The levels of fees and interest charged on our various debt facilities are based upon leverage levels and market  interest rates.", "Our variable interest rate debt facilities outstanding include our five-year credit facility, which provides for a revolving  credit facility with a capacity of up to $250.0 million in borrowings with no balance outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021, a  $780.0 million term loan, of which $550.3 million was outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021, and a $188.3 million trade  receivable securitization facility, all of which was outstanding at June\u00a030, 2021.  In January 2019, the Company  entered into an interest rate swap on $463.0 million of the Company\u2019s U.S. dollar-denominated unsecured variable  rate debt.  The notional amount of the interest rate swap was $420.0 million as of June\u00a030, 2021.  The interest rate  swap effectively converts a portion of the floating rate interest payment into a fixed rate interest payment.  The  Company designated the interest rate swap as a pay-fixed, receive-floating interest rate swap instrument and is  accounting for this derivative as a cash flow hedge.  Fixed interest rate debt facilities include $90.0 million  outstanding under our unsecured shelf facility agreement, as well as $0.8 million of assumed debt from the purchase  of our headquarters facility.  We had total average variable interest rate bank borrowings of $739.3 million during  fiscal 2021.  The impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the interest rates on our average variable interest rate  bank borrowings (not considering the impact of our interest rate swap) would have resulted in a $7.4 million  increase in interest expense.  Due to the interest rate swap, the impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the  variable interest rate would have reduced net cash interest paid by $4.2 million.  Changes in market interest rates  would also impact interest rates on these facilities.", "For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the \u201cLiquidity and Capital Resources\u201d section of  \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\u201d in Item 7 and notes 6 and  7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  That information is also incorporated here by reference.  In  addition, see Item 1A, \u201cRisk Factors,\u201d for additional risk factors relating to our business.", "REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM", "These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an  opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits.  We are a public accounting firm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.", "We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material  misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.  Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material  misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to  those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the  financial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made  by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.  We believe that our audits  provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial  statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to  accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging,  subjective, or complex judgments.  The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on  the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing  a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.", "Our audit procedures related to the forecasts of future revenues and EBITDA (\u201cforecasts\u201d), and the selection of the  discount rate and selection of multiples applied to management\u2019s forecasted revenues and EBITDA estimates (\u201cmarket  multiples\u201d) for the FCX reporting unit included the following, among others: \u2022 We tested the effectiveness of controls over management\u2019s goodwill impairment evaluation, such as controls related to management\u2019s forecasts and the selection of the discount rate and market multiples used. \u2022 We evaluated management\u2019s ability to accurately forecast by comparing actual results to management\u2019s historical forecasts. \u2022 We evaluated the reasonableness of management\u2019s forecasts by comparing the forecasts to (1) historical results, (2) internal communications to management and the Board of Directors, and (3) forecasted information included in industry reports for the various industries the reporting unit operates within. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the discount rate, including testing the underlying source information and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, and developing a range of independent estimates and comparing those to the discount rate selected by management. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the market multiples by evaluating the selected comparable publicly traded companies and the adjustments made for differences in growth prospects and risk profiles between the reporting unit and the comparable publicly traded companies.  We tested the underlying source information and mathematical accuracy of the calculations. \u2022 With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the fair value of the reporting unit based upon reconciling the fair value of the reporting unit to the market capitalization of the Company.", "We have served as the Company's auditor since 1966.", "The difference between the opening and closing balances of the Company's contract assets primarily results from  the timing difference between the Company's performance and when the customer is billed.", "Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment when changes in conditions indicate  carrying value may not be recoverable.", "In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the \u201cAR Securitization Facility\u201d)  with a termination date of August\u00a031, 2021.  On March 26, 2021, the Company amended the AR Securitization  Facility to expand the eligible receivables, which increased the maximum availability to $250,000 and increased the  drawn fees on the AR Securitization Facility to 0.98% per year.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit  ratings of our customers, customer concentration levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being  transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be able to fully access the $250,000 of funding available  under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company\u2019s borrowing  capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the U.S. operations\u2019 trade accounts receivable.  The Company  uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively reducing  borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR.  The interest rate on the AR  Securitization Facility as of June\u00a030, 2021 and June\u00a030, 2020 was 1.20% and 1.07%, respectively.  The termination  date of the AR Securitization is now March\u00a026, 2024.", "We have evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to June\u00a030, 2021 through the date the financial  statements were issued.", "CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING", "Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting None.", "We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries  (the \u201cCompany\u201d) as of June\u00a030, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  In our opinion, the  Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of June\u00a030, 2021,  based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United  States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended June\u00a030, 2021, of the Company  and our report dated August 17, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements  and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's adoption of a new accounting standard related to  leases.", "The Company\u2019s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its  assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management\u2019s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the  Company\u2019s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We are a public accounting firm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was  maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial  reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered  necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.", "Applied has a code of ethics, named the Code of Business Ethics, that applies to our employees, including our  principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer.  The Code of Business Ethics is  posted via hyperlink at the investor relations area of our www.applied.com website.  In addition, amendments to  and waivers from the Code of Business Ethics will be disclosed promptly at the same location.", "Pursuant to the requirements of Section\u00a013 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this  report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized."], "Governance": ["Our leading brands, specialized  services, and comprehensive knowledge serve MRO and OEM end users in virtually all industrial markets through  our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.", "About the Cover: As the leading technical products,  services and solutions provider to industrial markets, Applied  continually strives to enhance customer partnerships \u2013 even  in challenging times.", "In recognition of our excellent support  and great customer service, our Chula Vista, CA service  center team received a Supplier Recognition Award for going  above and beyond on a consistent basis.", "Across the organization, we can look back at  the solid progress we have made and be proud of how well we served and supported our  customers, critical industrial infrastructure, and our fellow associates.", "Our operational procedures  and protocols \u2013 aligned with the CDC, OSHA and other leading health organizations \u2013 proved  beneficial in our resolve.  During the initial weeks of the COVID-19 pandemic, I stated my belief that Applied\u00ae has never been in a better position to manage  through the current environment and exit the pandemic-driven downturn even stronger.", "This is a direct reflection of the tremendous team we have across the organization  and highlights the strong potential that lies ahead.", "As fiscal 2021 progressed, we saw order momentum intensify as customers increased production activity across their facilities and  turned to us for critical MRO support.", "Our local presence, and expanding technical and service capabilities proved impactful as  customers began to reaccelerate growth investments and solidify supply chains.", "In addition, we benefited from our strategic focus  to expand our service offerings and end-market mix.", "Of special mention is the recent work of our flow control teams and their  involvement in providing critical products and solutions for the COVID-19 vaccine production.", "What we have gained and accomplished since the onset of the pandemic is significant  and sets the stage for our fiscal 2022 and years to come.", "Looking forward, we have many exciting near-term opportunities to  productively and effectively impact our customers as the leading technical products, services and solutions provider to industrial  markets.", "We join many others in being hopeful and excited about the prospects for our health, well-being and return to familiar activity \u2013  personally and professionally.", "Still, as we have experienced since its onset, the COVID journey is a marathon, not a sprint, and we  remain firm on providing a healthy and safe work environment at Applied.", "Ensuring we satisfy our customers\u2019 needs while also  adhering to associate safety remains our primary objective.", "2 While we are still in the early innings of fully capitalizing on our potential, we are clearly gaining momentum, with related  business wins increasing and our broader teams actively engaged.", "Having launched in September 2020, we have seen the We Are Applied SM campaign take hold \u2013 internally and externally \u2013  showcasing our vast experience, innovative technologies and multi-channel initiatives that work together to make us THE  supplier of choice for technical MRO, OE, and return-enhancing solutions across critical industrial infrastructure.", "It also serves  as a timely prelude to our approaching 100-year anniversary, demonstrating our strong foundation and the many chapters  yet to be written on the successful story of Applied. \u201cNew opportunities\u201d and \u201cexpanding growth potential\u201d are words that accurately describe Applied and continue to  inspire our associates.", "This view reflects the deep belief in our value proposition and technical industry positon, as well as  a long-standing commitment to operational excellence.", "These attributes have strengthened our competitive moat, while  expanding our addressable market in recent years \u2013 providing an engaging path for faster growth and margin expansion.  We have the most comprehensive portfolio and technical service capabilities, premier engineered solution expertise, and  greatest track record of consistency and commitment across our core industrial product categories.", "We are applying a  similar focus into new emerging industrial solutions as we adapt and position the Company for years to come.", "Our strong  local presence and ongoing talent investment provide further support to this foundation.", "Across Applied, we are eager to demonstrate our full value-add as we continue to leverage our differentiated industry  position.", "From our comprehensive MRO capabilities to our technical products and engineered solutions, we have multiple  channels to accelerate growth.", "Central to this effort is fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded fluid power,  flow control, automation, consumables, and e-business capabilities.", "We can see evidence of this cross-selling potential  emerging throughout the Company, supported by our We Are Applied SM business positioning and marketing campaign.", "Following several acquisitions over the past two years and ongoing execution of our strategic growth initiatives, we have  established Applied as a leading distributor and solutions provider of advanced factory automation technologies focused  on machine vision, robotics, motion control, and digital networking.", "Our expanding automation offering aligns with and  complements related trends across our legacy operations.", "This includes fluid power where our industry-leading capabilities  around electronic integration, software coding, pneumatics automation, and smart technology applications are driving  new growth opportunities as customers increasingly focus on machine advancements and data analytics.", "In addition, we  continue to expand our industrial IoT offering throughout our Service Center network to address our customers\u2019 Factory of  the Future initiatives.", "We are encouraged by our progress in identifying and developing opportunities aimed at connecting our automation and  smart technology capabilities across varied vertical markets, such as Semiconductors & Electronics, Medical & Life Science,  Food Processing, Logistics, and Data Centers.", "Our growing position across these emerging industrial technologies together  with our holistic design, assembly, and integration solutions are driving greater recognition across our served industries.  We aim to expand this position in coming years, presenting a significant growth opportunity as technology continues to  converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end markets.", "Collectively, we recognize our business requirements and social responsibility in serving all stakeholders.", "Our updated  Corporate Social Responsibility report highlights this ongoing progress and demonstrated commitment to ensuring that  Applied conducts business fairly, honestly and ethically, in every location where we do business.", "Clearly, we have relevant profitable growth opportunities to help us execute our strategic plan elements of Core Growth;  Products and Services Expansion; Automation, Fluid Power, and Flow Control Leadership; Operational Excellence; and  Acquisitions.", "We are fully prepared to leverage our capabilities and build upon our momentum\u2026 serving customers and  generating benefits for associates, suppliers, communities and shareholders.", "On behalf of all of Applied, we thank you not only for your continued trust in Applied, but for recognizing our significant  value and potential.", "We are proud of our accomplishments to date, and we continue to believe our best days are ahead\u2026   Working Together, Winning Together!", "As we enter fiscal 2022 \u2013 and our 99th year of doing business \u2013 the resilient nature of Applied is apparent through  individual efforts, teamwork, cross-functional collaboration, and solid financial performance.", "As markets stabilize  and continue to demonstrate sequential growth, we will take full advantage of the fundamental drivers and strategic  initiatives that will benefit our business throughout our long-range strategy horizon\u2026 propelling us to our 100-year  anniversary in 2023 and beyond!", "We are a leading distributor and solutions provider of industrial motion, power, control, and automation  technologies.  Through our comprehensive network of approximately 5,900 employee associates and 568 facilities  including service center, fluid power, flow control, and automation operations, as well as repair shops and  distribution centers, we offer a selection of more than 7.5 million stock keeping units with a focus on industrial  bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, specialty flow control, and advanced  factory automation solutions.  We market our products with a set of service solutions including inventory  management, engineering, design, assembly, repair, and systems integration, as well as customized mechanical,  fabricated rubber, and shop services.  Our customers use our products and services for both MRO (maintenance,  repair, and operating) and OEM (original equipment manufacturing) applications across a variety of end markets  primarily in North America, as well as Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.  Headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio,  Applied and its predecessor companies have engaged in business since 1923.", "Our internet address is www.applied.com.  The following documents are available free of charge via hyperlink from  the investor relations area of our website:", "VALUE PROPOSITION We serve a segment of the industrial market that requires technical expertise and service given that our products and  solutions are directly tied to companies\u2019 production and efficiency initiatives.  As such, we believe we are integral to  our customers\u2019 supply chains considering the critical nature and direct exposure our solutions have on our customers\u2019  core production equipment and plant capabilities.  While we compete with other distributors and service providers  offering products and solutions addressing this area of the industrial supply chain, we believe our industry position  and value proposition benefits from relative advantages tied to the following key attributes:", "We focus on helping customers minimize their production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce  overall procurement and maintenance costs, as well as optimize the efficiency and safety of their facilities and  equipment.  A primary focus for our service center network is responding to a critical \u201cbreak-fix\u201d situation, which  requires knowledge of a customer\u2019s facility, localized inventory, timely delivery capabilities, service execution, and  accountability.  In addition, our fluid power, flow control, and automation operations design, engineer, and  integrate solutions focused on making a customer\u2019s operations and equipment more productive, cost-efficient, and", "automated.  We believe our products and solutions are increasingly critical within the industrial supply chain given an  aging and tighter customer labor force, more sophisticated production equipment and processes, a greater focus on  plant floor optimization, and compliance and regulatory requirements.", "INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION We primarily compete within North America which we believe offers significant growth potential given our industry  position, established distribution and sales network, market fragmentation, and customer technical requirements, as  well as opportunities tied to automation and smart technologies.  Growth within our industry is influenced by  broader industrial production and capacity utilization, as well as inflation, labor dynamics, capital spending,  geopolitical events, factory optimization initiatives, changes in industrial equipment technologies, and supply chain  requirements.", "Our principal competitors are specialist and general line distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid  power components and systems, flow control solutions, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, and  automation solutions, and to a lesser extent providers of tools, safety products, and other industrial and  maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational operations.  We also  compete with original equipment manufacturers and integrators.  The identity and number of our competitors vary  throughout the geographic, industry, and product markets we serve.", "STRATEGIC GROWTH AND OPERATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES \u2022 Capture market share across our core service center network.  Our network of service centers located close to industrial companies allows us to respond quickly and effectively to critical MRO situations involving direct production infrastructure and industrial equipment.  We believe more sophisticated industrial production processes and customer labor constraints, as well as increased industrial capacity and manufacturing activity across North America could drive greater demand for our products and services.  We continue to deploy initiatives to further enhance our capabilities across our service center network and gain market share.  These include investments in analytics, strategic account penetration, sales process optimization, talent development, and digital channel solutions, as well as fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded product and service platform across fluid power, flow control, automation, and consumables solutions.", "\u2022 Extend our leading fluid power and flow control position as demand for comprehensive solutions grows.  We provide innovative fluid power and flow control solutions including systems design and engineering, electronic control integration, software programming, valve actuation, compliance consulting, fabrication and assembly, and dedicated service and repair.  Demand for these solutions is increasing across a variety of industrial, off-highway mobile, technology, and process related applications given a greater focus on power consumption, plant efficiency and automation, emissions control, electrification, remote monitoring, advancements in machining, regulatory and compliance standards, and data analytics.  We believe our service and engineering capabilities, shop network, and supplier relationships, combined with our software coding and smart technology application knowledge, are key competitive advantages.  We see opportunities to leverage these advantages across new and underserved geographies, as well as through new commercial solutions that could drive a greater share gain of this market opportunity in coming years.", "We are expanding our position and capabilities focused on advanced factory automation and smart technologies that optimize and connect customers\u2019 industrial supply chains.  We believe we have a favorable position to capture this addressable market given our technical product focus, service capabilities, embedded customer relationships and knowledge across direct production infrastructure and equipment, and existing supplier relationships.  Following several business acquisitions made since fiscal 2020, we now offer products and solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and distribution of machine vision, robotic technologies, and motion control.  Our emerging growth across these areas is diversifying our end-market exposure with greater penetration into technology, life sciences, logistics, and food and beverage industries.", "We expect to continue to expand our automation footprint and capabilities in coming years, as well as pursue opportunities tied to the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT).  We believe this market potential could be meaningful as technology continues to converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end-markets.", "\u2022 Execute ongoing operational initiatives supporting margin profile.  We have a number of initiatives focused on driving operational improvements throughout the organization.  Systems investments in recent years including common ERP platforms are supporting opportunities in leveraging shared services, refining our sales management process, and standardizing pricing and sourcing functions, while we continue to optimize our shop and distribution network and analytics.  We also remain focused on achieving margin synergies across our operations following expansion into flow control and automation.  This includes enhanced pricing functions, leveraging vendor procurement, freight savings, and refined cost management.  Combined with", "OPERATIONS Our distribution and sales network consists of approximately 445 locations in our Service Center Distribution  segment and 123 locations in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  This includes service centers, distribution  centers, and facilities tied to our fluid power, flow control, and automation operations.  Our service centers resemble  local inventory hubs located in close proximity to our customers and focused primarily on MRO related fulfillment  and service needs.  Our fluid power, flow control, and automation locations support technical and shop-oriented  services integral to the more specialized and integrated nature of the products and solutions they provide.  Other  operations and channels we market through include inventory management services for indirect consumable  supplies and digital solutions including our Applied.com website, electronic data interchange (EDI) and other  electronic interfaces with customers' technology platforms and plant maintenance systems.", "Our distribution centers provide daily service to our service centers, helping replenish inventories and shipping  products directly to customers where appropriate.  An efficient supply chain and timely delivery of our products is  vital to our value proposition particularly when customers require products for emergency repairs.  We utilize  dedicated third-party transportation providers, our own delivery vehicles, as well as surface and air common carrier  and courier services.  Customers may also pick up items at our service centers.  We maintain product inventory levels  at each service center tailored to the local market.  These inventories consist of standard items as well as other items  specific to local customer demand.", "Our operations are primarily based in the U.S. where 86% of our fiscal 2021 sales were generated.  We also have  international operations, the largest of which is in Canada (8% of fiscal 2021 sales) with the balance (6% of fiscal  2021 sales) in Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.", "SUPPLIERS We are a leading distributor of products including bearings, power transmission products, engineered fluid power  components and systems, specialty flow control solutions, advanced automation products, industrial rubber  products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.", "These products are generally supplied to us by manufacturers whom we serve as a non-exclusive distributor.  The  suppliers also may provide us product training, as well as sales and marketing support.  Authorizations to represent  particular suppliers and product lines vary by geographic region, particularly for our fluid power, flow control, and  automation businesses.  We believe our supplier relationships are generally good, and many have existed for  decades.  The disruption of relationships with certain suppliers, or the disruption of their operations, could adversely  affect our business.", "Our product suppliers typically confine their direct sales activities to large-volume transactions, mainly with large  original equipment manufacturers.  The suppliers generally do not sell maintenance and repair products directly to  the customer, but instead refer the customer to us or another distributor.", "MARKETS  We purchase from thousands of product manufacturers and resell the products to thousands of customers in a wide  variety of industries, including agriculture and food processing, cement, chemicals and petrochemicals, fabricated  metals, forest products, industrial machinery and equipment, life sciences, mining, oil and gas, primary metals,  technology, transportation, and utilities, as well as to government entities.  Customers range from very large  businesses, with which we may have multiple-location relationships, to very small ones.  We are not significantly  dependent on a single customer or group of customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on  our business as a whole, and no single customer accounts for more than 4% of our fiscal 2021 sales.", "We expect to pursue additional acquisitions aligned with our growth strategy and long-term financial targets.", "We view acquisitions as an important growth consideration given high fragmentation, greater operational and technical requirements, and supplier authorizations within the markets we serve.  We believe our sourcing strategy, cash generation capabilities, industry relationships, and operational discipline are key to our acquisition success.  In addition, dedicated corporate teams and related support functions provide strategic oversight of critical work streams and integration execution, which we believe enhances our ability to capture synergistic value.  Over the near to intermediate-term, our acquisition priorities are focused on continuing to expand our current offerings, while further enhancing our technical differentiation and value-added service capabilities.", "SERVICES We believe part of our success, differentiation, and competitive advantage is attributable to the comprehensive set of  services and solutions we provide, which we view as critical given the technical nature and application of our core  product offering of motion, power, control, and automation technologies.  The foundation of our service capabilities  lies with our technically oriented associate team, which includes engineers, industry segment specialists, mechanics,  technicians, fluid power specialists, as well as our systems, shop network, and supplier relationships.  We believe  knowledge and service capabilities relating to our core product offering are increasingly needed across our customer  base given skilled labor constraints within their operations, maintenance requirements, and more sophisticated plant  equipment and processes.  Our services and solutions help customers minimize production downtime, improve  machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs.  By providing high levels of service,  product and industry expertise, and technical support, while at the same time offering product breadth and  competitive pricing, we believe we develop stronger, longer-lasting, and more profitable customer relationships.    See the Reportable Segments section below for more detail on the various service solutions we provide to customers.", "REPORTABLE SEGMENTS We report results of operations in two segments: 1) Service Center Based Distribution, and 2) Fluid Power & Flow  Control.  In fiscal 2021, our Service Center Based Distribution segment represented 68% of our total sales, while our  Fluid Power & Flow Control segment represented 32% of our total sales.", "Service Center Based Distribution.  Our Service Center Based Distribution segment includes our legacy MRO  distribution operations across North America, Australia, and New Zealand.  This business operates through local  service centers and distribution centers with a focus on providing products and services addressing the maintenance  and repair of motion control infrastructure and production equipment.  Products primarily include industrial  bearings, motors, belting, drives, couplings, pumps, linear motion products, hydraulic and pneumatic components,  filtration supplies, and hoses, as well as other related supplies for general operational needs of customers\u2019 machinery  and equipment.", "Fluid Power & Flow Control.  Our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment includes our operations that specialize in  distributing, engineering, designing, integrating, and repairing hydraulic and pneumatic fluid power technologies,  and engineered flow control products and services.  We believe we are the largest distributor and solutions provider  of fluid power and industrial flow control products and solutions in the U.S.  The segment also includes our  operations that focus on advanced automation solutions, including machine vision, robotics, motion control, and  smart technologies.", "Our specialty flow control operations provide highly engineered process flow control products, solutions, and  services.  Products include pumps, valves, fittings, hoses, process instrumentation, actuators, and filtration supplies  which are used to control the flow of liquids and gases in mission-critical industrial applications.  Our flow control  products and services are focused on MRO related applications; OEMs; and engineering, procurement, and  construction (EPC) firms across a variety of industries including chemicals, steel, power, oil and gas, pulp and paper,  life sciences, pharmaceuticals, food and beverage, and general industrials.  Similar to our fluid power operations, our  flow control offering includes technical service capabilities such as flow control systems integration, repair services,  valve actuation, process instrumentation, pipe and hose fabrication, and compliance consulting.", "Our advanced automation operations provide solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and  distribution of machine vision, collaborative robots, mobile robots, RFID, industrial networking, and machine learning  technologies for OEMs, machine builders, integrators, and other industrial and technology end users.  Products and  solutions are marketed across a variety of industries including technology, medical, life sciences, logistics, consumer,  and general industrial.  Our automation business helps customers develop, produce, and integrate machine and  facility automation solutions using comprehensive technology and application knowledge.  A core element of our  strategy and value proposition within automation is our value-added and engineered solution capabilities, enabling  us to provide in-depth consultative, design, engineering, assembly, testing, and support services for various customer  requirements.", "HUMAN CAPITAL We attribute our business success to talented, dedicated employee associates who live our Core Values of integrity,  respect, customer focus, commitment to excellence, accountability, innovation, continuous improvement, and  teamwork.", "Associate Development.  We strive to attract, retain, and develop a diverse group of high-performing associates,  empowering them to achieve their potential and providing them opportunities to test their skills, increase their  responsibilities, and advance their careers.  Applied\u2019s commitment to associate development is reflected in our  investments in a learning management system (offering a wide array of internal facilitated training courses, supplier  product training, and other third-party courses), a modern social learning platform, and in-person training through  which associates can continually expand their knowledge base and position themselves to achieve their professional  goals.", "Diversity and Inclusion.  We are committed to a diverse and inclusive workplace that is respectful to all associates  and believe this serves as a cornerstone for a strong company.  We employ multiple initiatives to recruit, train, and  advance diverse associates.  In the area of recruitment, for example, we engage in on-campus events and targeted  recruitment strategies that increase our exposure to diverse populations in order to promote enhanced diversity in  our hiring.", "Health and Safety.  Applied is also committed to the safety and well-being of our associates.", "From the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we focused on protecting our associates\u2019 health and safety, while  ensuring our continued capability to serve our customers.  As a provider of critical parts, services, and solutions to  essential industries, Applied remained open for business.  We implemented significant changes to ensure a safe  operating environment for our associates and to protect our customers and communities, including remote work as  feasible, social distancing protocols, heightened sanitation procedures, and masking policies.  BACKLOG AND SEASONALITY  Backlog orders are not material to our business as a whole, although they are a more important factor for our fluid  power, flow control, and automation businesses.  Our business has exhibited minor seasonality.  In particular, sales  per day during the first half of our fiscal year have historically been slightly lower than the second half due, in part,  to the impact of customer plant shutdowns, summer vacations and holidays.", "PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES, AND LICENSES  Customer recognition of our service marks and trade names, including Applied Industrial Technologies\u00ae, Applied\u00ae,  and AIT\u00ae, is an important contributing factor to our sales.  Patents and licenses are not of material importance to  our business.", "RAW MATERIALS AND GENERAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS   Our operations are dependent on general industrial and economic conditions.  We would be adversely affected by  the unavailability of raw materials to our suppliers, prolonged labor disputes experienced by suppliers or customers,  or by events or conditions that have an adverse effect on industrial activity generally in the markets we serve or on  key customer industries.", "WORKING CAPITAL Our working capital position is discussed in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.", "In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could  materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the  only risks facing the Company.  Certain risks are identified below in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by  reference.", "Our business depends heavily on the operating levels of our customers and the factors that affect them,  including general economic conditions.  The markets for our products and services are subject to conditions or  events that affect demand for goods and materials that our customers produce.  Consequently, demand for our  products and services has been and will continue to be influenced by most of the same factors that affect demand  for and production of customers' goods and materials.", "When customers or prospective customers reduce production levels because of lower demand, increased supply,  higher costs, tight credit conditions, unfavorable currency exchange rates, adverse trade policies, foreign  competition, other competitive disadvantage, offshoring of production, or other reasons, their need for our products  and services diminishes.  Selling prices and terms of sale come under pressure, adversely affecting the profitability  and the durability of customer relationships, and credit losses may increase.  Inventory management becomes more  difficult in times of economic uncertainty.  Volatile economic and credit conditions also make it more difficult for us,  as well as our customers and suppliers, to forecast and plan future business activities.", "The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto continue to impact  our results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are uncertain  and cannot be predicted.  The COVID-19 pandemic created significant volatility, uncertainty, and economic  disruption.  The effects of the pandemic resulted in lost or delayed sales to us, and we experienced business  disruptions as we modified our business practices (including travel, work locations, and cancellation of physical  participation in meetings).  While the pandemic\u2019s impact on social and economic conditions has subsided, the extent  to which it will continue to impact our results of operations and financial condition will depend on evolving factors  that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the following: the duration, spread, and severity of the  pandemic, including due to virus variants, in the countries in which we operate; responsive measures taken by  governmental authorities, businesses, and individuals; the effect on our customers and their demand for our  products and services; the effect on our suppliers and disruptions to the global supply chain; our ability to sell and  provide our products and services and otherwise operate effectively, including as a result of travel restrictions and  associates working from home; disruptions to our operations resulting from associate illness; restrictions or  disruptions to, or reduced availability of, transportation; customers\u2019 ability to pay for our services and products;  closures of our facilities or those of our customers or suppliers; the impact of reduced customer demand on  purchasing incentives we earn from suppliers; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating  conditions can resume.  In addition, the pandemic\u2019s impact on the economy could affect the proper functioning of  financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates, product and energy costs, and interest rates.  The  pandemic\u2019s effects may also amplify the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,  and may continue to materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or  stock price.", "Consolidation in our customers' and suppliers' industries could adversely affect our business and financial  results.  Consolidation continues among our product suppliers and customers.  As customer industries consolidate  or customers otherwise aggregate their purchasing power, a greater proportion of our sales could be derived from  large volume contracts, which could adversely impact margins.  Consolidation among customers can produce  changes in their purchasing strategies, potentially shifting blocks of business among competing distributors and  contributing to volatility in our sales and pressure on prices.  Similarly, continued consolidation among suppliers  could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable pricing and other commercial terms for our inventory purchases.   There can be no assurance we will be able to take advantage of consolidation trends.", "An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings.  We operate in a highly competitive industry.  The  industry remains fragmented, but is consolidating.  Our principal competitors are specialist and general line  distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, flow control solutions,  automation technologies, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, oilfield  supplies, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and  multinational operations, and can include catalog and e-commerce companies.  Competition is largely focused in the  local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities, and price.  Existing competitors have, and future competitors may have, greater financial or other resources than we do,  broader or more appealing product or service offerings, greater market presence, stronger relationships with key  suppliers or customers, or better name recognition.  If existing or future competitors seek to gain or to retain market  share by aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, or otherwise through competitive advantage, our sales and  profitability could be adversely affected.  Our success will also be affected by our ability to continue to provide  competitive offerings as customer preferences or demands evolve, for example with respect to product and service  types, brands, quality, or prices.  Technological evolution or other factors can render product and service offerings  obsolete, potentially impairing our competitive position and our inventory values.", "Our operations outside the United States increase our exposure to global economic and political  conditions and currency exchange volatility.  Foreign operations contributed 14% of our sales in 2021.  This  presence outside the U.S. increases risks associated with exposure to more volatile economic conditions, political  instability, cultural and legal differences in conducting business (including corrupt practices), economic and trade  policy actions, and currency exchange fluctuations.", "Our business could be adversely affected if we do not successfully execute our strategies to grow sales and  earnings.  We have numerous strategies and initiatives to grow sales, leveraging the breadth of our product  offering, supplier relationships, and value-added technical capabilities to differentiate us and improve our", "competitive position.  We also continually seek to enhance gross margins, manage costs, and otherwise improve  earnings.  Many of our activities target improvements to the consistency of our operating practices across our  hundreds of locations.  If we do not implement these initiatives effectively, or if for other reasons they are  unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected.", "Loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, or changes in distribution programs could  adversely affect our sales and earnings.  Our business depends on maintaining an immediately available supply of  various products to meet customer demand.  Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding,  but are terminable by either party.  The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability  of their products, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and have a material adverse effect on our business.  Supply interruptions could arise from raw materials shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity or utilization to  meet demand, financial problems or insolvency, trade issues, labor disputes, public health emergencies, weather  conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control.", "Changes in customer or product mix and downward pressure on sales prices could cause our gross profit  percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Because we serve thousands of customers in many end markets, and offer  millions of products, with varying profitability levels, changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross  profit percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Downward pressure on sales prices could also cause our gross profit  percentage to fluctuate or decline.  We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of deflation,  pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition.", "Our ability to transact business is highly reliant on information systems.  A disruption or security breach  could materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operation.  We depend on information  systems to, among other things, process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections,  purchase products, manage accounts payable processes, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost- effective operations, provide superior service to customers, conduct business communications, and compile financial  results.  A serious, prolonged disruption of our information systems, due to man-made or natural causes, including  power or telecommunications outage, or breach in security, could materially impair fundamental business processes  and increase expenses, decrease sales, or otherwise reduce earnings.", "Because of our reliance on information systems, we are vulnerable to the growing threat of damage or intrusion  from computer viruses or other cyber-attacks, including ransomware and business e-mail compromise, on our  systems.  Despite precautions taken to prevent or mitigate the risks of such incidents, breaches of our systems could  not only cause business disruption, but could also result in the theft of funds, the theft, loss, or disclosure of", "Acquisitions are a key component of our anticipated growth.  We may not be able to identify or to  complete future acquisitions, to integrate them effectively into our operations, or to realize their  anticipated benefits.  Many industries we serve are mature.  As a result, acquisitions of businesses have been  important to our growth.  While we wish to continue to acquire businesses, we may not be able to identify and to  negotiate suitable acquisitions, to obtain financing for them on satisfactory terms, or otherwise to complete  acquisitions.  In addition, existing and future competitors, and private equity firms, increasingly compete with us for  acquisitions, which can increase prices and reduce the number of suitable opportunities; the acquisitions they make  can also adversely impact our market position.", "We seek acquisition opportunities that complement and expand our operations.  However, substantial costs, delays,  or other difficulties related to integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business or financial results.  For  example, we could face significant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating information systems, personnel,  and operations, and implementing procedures and controls in a timely and efficient manner.", "An interruption of operations at our headquarters or distribution centers, or in our means of transporting  product, could adversely impact our business.  Our business depends on maintaining operating activity at our  headquarters and distribution centers, and being able to receive and deliver product in a timely manner.  A serious,  prolonged interruption due to power or telecommunications outage, security incident, terrorist attack, public health  emergency, earthquake, extreme weather events, other natural disasters, fire, flood, transportation disruption, or  other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.", "Our business depends on our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain qualified employees.  Our  success depends on hiring, developing, motivating, and retaining key employees, including executive, managerial,  sales, professional, and other personnel.  We may have difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel.  In  addition, we may have difficulty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against  us.  With respect to sales and customer service positions in particular, we greatly benefit from having employees who  are familiar with the products and services we sell, and their applications, as well as with our customer and supplier", "relationships.  The loss of key employees or our failure to attract and retain other qualified workers could disrupt or  adversely affect our business.  In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased competition  for employees, shortages of qualified workers, higher employee turnover (including through retirement as the  workforce ages), or increased employee compensation or benefit costs.", "We believe having a local presence is important to serving our customers, so we maintain service centers and other  operations in local markets throughout the countries in which we operate.  At June 30, 2021, we owned real  properties at 115 locations and leased 418 locations.  Certain properties house more than one operation.", "The properties in Baldwinsville, Newark, Midland, and Stafford are used in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Fontana and Longview properties are used in both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and the Fluid  Power & Flow Control segment.  The remaining properties are used in the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.", "We consider our properties generally sufficient to meet our requirements for office space and inventory stocking.", "When opening new operations, we have tended to lease rather than purchase real property.  We do not consider  any service center, distribution center, or shop property to be material, because we believe that, if it becomes  necessary or desirable to relocate an operation, other suitable property could be found.", "In addition to operating locations, we own or lease certain properties which in the aggregate are not material and  are either for sale, lease, or sublease to third parties due to a relocation or closing.  We also may lease or sublease to  others unused portions of buildings.", "Fiscal 2021 ended on a positive note as underlying demand continued to strengthen across both segments during  the fourth quarter reflecting sustained recovery in our core end-markets and momentum across our internal growth  initiatives.", "We are managing inflation well and controlling costs, while benefiting from productivity enhancements.  Fiscal 2022 is off to a positive start with organic sales through early August up by a high-teens percent over the prior  year and customer indications signaling sustained demand momentum.", "Applied monitors several economic indices that have been key indicators for industrial economic activity in the United  States.  These include the Industrial Production (IP) and Manufacturing Capacity Utilization (MCU) indices published  by the Federal Reserve Board and the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) published by the Institute for Supply  Management (ISM).  Historically, our performance correlates well with the MCU, which measures productivity and  calculates a ratio of actual manufacturing output versus potential full capacity output.  When manufacturing plants  are running at a high rate of capacity, they tend to wear out machinery and require replacement parts.", "We evaluate the recoverability of our slow-moving and inactive inventories at least quarterly.  We estimate the  recoverable cost of such inventory by product type while considering factors such as its age, historic and current  demand trends, the physical condition of the inventory, as well as assumptions regarding future demand.  Our ability  to recover our cost for slow moving or obsolete inventory can be affected by such factors as general market  conditions, future customer demand and relationships with suppliers.  A significant portion of the products we hold  in inventory have long shelf lives and are not highly susceptible to obsolescence.", "Important risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to the operations levels of our  customers and the economic factors that affect them; risks relating to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic;  changes in the prices for products and services relative to the cost of providing them; reduction in supplier inventory  purchase incentives; loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, changes in supplier distribution  programs, inability of suppliers to perform, and transportation disruptions; the cost of products and energy and  other operating costs; changes in customer preferences for products and services of the nature and brands sold by  us; changes in customer procurement policies and practices; competitive pressures; our reliance on information  systems and risks relating to their proper functioning, the security of those systems, and the data stored in or  transmitted through them; the impact of economic conditions on the collectability of trade receivables; reduced  demand for our products in targeted markets due to reasons including consolidation in customer industries; our  ability to retain and attract qualified sales and customer service personnel and other skilled executives, managers and  professionals; our ability to identify and complete acquisitions, integrate them effectively, and realize their  anticipated benefits; the variability, timing and nature of new business opportunities including acquisitions, alliances,  customer relationships, and supplier authorizations; the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in connection  with acquisitions; our ability to access capital markets as needed on reasonable terms; disruption of operations at our  headquarters or distribution centers; risks and uncertainties associated with our foreign operations, including volatile  economic conditions, political instability, cultural and legal differences, and currency exchange fluctuations; the  potential for goodwill and intangible asset impairment; changes in accounting policies and practices; our ability to  maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; organizational changes within the Company; risks related  to legal proceedings to which we are a party; potentially adverse government regulation, legislation, or policies, both  enacted and under consideration, including with respect to federal tax policy, international trade, data privacy and  security, and government contracting; and the occurrence of extraordinary events (including prolonged labor  disputes, power outages, telecommunication outages, terrorist acts, public health emergency, earthquakes, extreme  weather events, other natural disasters, fires, floods, and accidents).  Other factors and unanticipated events could  also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.", "Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the \u201cCompany\u201d or \u201cApplied\u201d) is a leading value-added  distributor and technical solutions provider of industrial motion, fluid power, flow control, automation technologies,  and related maintenance supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve  MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all  industrial markets through our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  Although  the Company does not generally manufacture the products it sells, it does assemble and repair certain products and  systems.", "Our leading brands, specialized  services, and comprehensive knowledge serve MRO and OEM end users in virtually all industrial markets through  our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.", "About the Cover: As the leading technical products,  services and solutions provider to industrial markets, Applied  continually strives to enhance customer partnerships \u2013 even  in challenging times.", "In recognition of our excellent support  and great customer service, our Chula Vista, CA service  center team received a Supplier Recognition Award for going  above and beyond on a consistent basis.", "Across the organization, we can look back at  the solid progress we have made and be proud of how well we served and supported our  customers, critical industrial infrastructure, and our fellow associates.", "Our operational procedures  and protocols \u2013 aligned with the CDC, OSHA and other leading health organizations \u2013 proved  beneficial in our resolve.  During the initial weeks of the COVID-19 pandemic, I stated my belief that Applied\u00ae has never been in a better position to manage  through the current environment and exit the pandemic-driven downturn even stronger.", "This is a direct reflection of the tremendous team we have across the organization  and highlights the strong potential that lies ahead.", "As fiscal 2021 progressed, we saw order momentum intensify as customers increased production activity across their facilities and  turned to us for critical MRO support.", "Our local presence, and expanding technical and service capabilities proved impactful as  customers began to reaccelerate growth investments and solidify supply chains.", "In addition, we benefited from our strategic focus  to expand our service offerings and end-market mix.", "Of special mention is the recent work of our flow control teams and their  involvement in providing critical products and solutions for the COVID-19 vaccine production.", "What we have gained and accomplished since the onset of the pandemic is significant  and sets the stage for our fiscal 2022 and years to come.", "Looking forward, we have many exciting near-term opportunities to  productively and effectively impact our customers as the leading technical products, services and solutions provider to industrial  markets.", "We join many others in being hopeful and excited about the prospects for our health, well-being and return to familiar activity \u2013  personally and professionally.", "Still, as we have experienced since its onset, the COVID journey is a marathon, not a sprint, and we  remain firm on providing a healthy and safe work environment at Applied.", "Ensuring we satisfy our customers\u2019 needs while also  adhering to associate safety remains our primary objective.", "2 While we are still in the early innings of fully capitalizing on our potential, we are clearly gaining momentum, with related  business wins increasing and our broader teams actively engaged.", "Having launched in September 2020, we have seen the We Are Applied SM campaign take hold \u2013 internally and externally \u2013  showcasing our vast experience, innovative technologies and multi-channel initiatives that work together to make us THE  supplier of choice for technical MRO, OE, and return-enhancing solutions across critical industrial infrastructure.", "It also serves  as a timely prelude to our approaching 100-year anniversary, demonstrating our strong foundation and the many chapters  yet to be written on the successful story of Applied. \u201cNew opportunities\u201d and \u201cexpanding growth potential\u201d are words that accurately describe Applied and continue to  inspire our associates.", "This view reflects the deep belief in our value proposition and technical industry positon, as well as  a long-standing commitment to operational excellence.", "These attributes have strengthened our competitive moat, while  expanding our addressable market in recent years \u2013 providing an engaging path for faster growth and margin expansion.  We have the most comprehensive portfolio and technical service capabilities, premier engineered solution expertise, and  greatest track record of consistency and commitment across our core industrial product categories.", "We are applying a  similar focus into new emerging industrial solutions as we adapt and position the Company for years to come.", "Our strong  local presence and ongoing talent investment provide further support to this foundation.", "Across Applied, we are eager to demonstrate our full value-add as we continue to leverage our differentiated industry  position.", "From our comprehensive MRO capabilities to our technical products and engineered solutions, we have multiple  channels to accelerate growth.", "Central to this effort is fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded fluid power,  flow control, automation, consumables, and e-business capabilities.", "We can see evidence of this cross-selling potential  emerging throughout the Company, supported by our We Are Applied SM business positioning and marketing campaign.", "Following several acquisitions over the past two years and ongoing execution of our strategic growth initiatives, we have  established Applied as a leading distributor and solutions provider of advanced factory automation technologies focused  on machine vision, robotics, motion control, and digital networking.", "Our expanding automation offering aligns with and  complements related trends across our legacy operations.", "This includes fluid power where our industry-leading capabilities  around electronic integration, software coding, pneumatics automation, and smart technology applications are driving  new growth opportunities as customers increasingly focus on machine advancements and data analytics.", "In addition, we  continue to expand our industrial IoT offering throughout our Service Center network to address our customers\u2019 Factory of  the Future initiatives.", "We are encouraged by our progress in identifying and developing opportunities aimed at connecting our automation and  smart technology capabilities across varied vertical markets, such as Semiconductors & Electronics, Medical & Life Science,  Food Processing, Logistics, and Data Centers.", "Our growing position across these emerging industrial technologies together  with our holistic design, assembly, and integration solutions are driving greater recognition across our served industries.  We aim to expand this position in coming years, presenting a significant growth opportunity as technology continues to  converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end markets.", "Collectively, we recognize our business requirements and social responsibility in serving all stakeholders.", "Our updated  Corporate Social Responsibility report highlights this ongoing progress and demonstrated commitment to ensuring that  Applied conducts business fairly, honestly and ethically, in every location where we do business.", "Clearly, we have relevant profitable growth opportunities to help us execute our strategic plan elements of Core Growth;  Products and Services Expansion; Automation, Fluid Power, and Flow Control Leadership; Operational Excellence; and  Acquisitions.", "We are fully prepared to leverage our capabilities and build upon our momentum\u2026 serving customers and  generating benefits for associates, suppliers, communities and shareholders.", "On behalf of all of Applied, we thank you not only for your continued trust in Applied, but for recognizing our significant  value and potential.", "We are proud of our accomplishments to date, and we continue to believe our best days are ahead\u2026   Working Together, Winning Together!", "As we enter fiscal 2022 \u2013 and our 99th year of doing business \u2013 the resilient nature of Applied is apparent through  individual efforts, teamwork, cross-functional collaboration, and solid financial performance.", "As markets stabilize  and continue to demonstrate sequential growth, we will take full advantage of the fundamental drivers and strategic  initiatives that will benefit our business throughout our long-range strategy horizon\u2026 propelling us to our 100-year  anniversary in 2023 and beyond!", "We are a leading distributor and solutions provider of industrial motion, power, control, and automation  technologies.  Through our comprehensive network of approximately 5,900 employee associates and 568 facilities  including service center, fluid power, flow control, and automation operations, as well as repair shops and  distribution centers, we offer a selection of more than 7.5 million stock keeping units with a focus on industrial  bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, specialty flow control, and advanced  factory automation solutions.  We market our products with a set of service solutions including inventory  management, engineering, design, assembly, repair, and systems integration, as well as customized mechanical,  fabricated rubber, and shop services.  Our customers use our products and services for both MRO (maintenance,  repair, and operating) and OEM (original equipment manufacturing) applications across a variety of end markets  primarily in North America, as well as Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.  Headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio,  Applied and its predecessor companies have engaged in business since 1923.", "Our internet address is www.applied.com.  The following documents are available free of charge via hyperlink from  the investor relations area of our website:", "VALUE PROPOSITION We serve a segment of the industrial market that requires technical expertise and service given that our products and  solutions are directly tied to companies\u2019 production and efficiency initiatives.  As such, we believe we are integral to  our customers\u2019 supply chains considering the critical nature and direct exposure our solutions have on our customers\u2019  core production equipment and plant capabilities.  While we compete with other distributors and service providers  offering products and solutions addressing this area of the industrial supply chain, we believe our industry position  and value proposition benefits from relative advantages tied to the following key attributes:", "We focus on helping customers minimize their production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce  overall procurement and maintenance costs, as well as optimize the efficiency and safety of their facilities and  equipment.  A primary focus for our service center network is responding to a critical \u201cbreak-fix\u201d situation, which  requires knowledge of a customer\u2019s facility, localized inventory, timely delivery capabilities, service execution, and  accountability.  In addition, our fluid power, flow control, and automation operations design, engineer, and  integrate solutions focused on making a customer\u2019s operations and equipment more productive, cost-efficient, and", "automated.  We believe our products and solutions are increasingly critical within the industrial supply chain given an  aging and tighter customer labor force, more sophisticated production equipment and processes, a greater focus on  plant floor optimization, and compliance and regulatory requirements.", "INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION We primarily compete within North America which we believe offers significant growth potential given our industry  position, established distribution and sales network, market fragmentation, and customer technical requirements, as  well as opportunities tied to automation and smart technologies.  Growth within our industry is influenced by  broader industrial production and capacity utilization, as well as inflation, labor dynamics, capital spending,  geopolitical events, factory optimization initiatives, changes in industrial equipment technologies, and supply chain  requirements.", "Our principal competitors are specialist and general line distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid  power components and systems, flow control solutions, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, and  automation solutions, and to a lesser extent providers of tools, safety products, and other industrial and  maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational operations.  We also  compete with original equipment manufacturers and integrators.  The identity and number of our competitors vary  throughout the geographic, industry, and product markets we serve.", "STRATEGIC GROWTH AND OPERATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES \u2022 Capture market share across our core service center network.  Our network of service centers located close to industrial companies allows us to respond quickly and effectively to critical MRO situations involving direct production infrastructure and industrial equipment.  We believe more sophisticated industrial production processes and customer labor constraints, as well as increased industrial capacity and manufacturing activity across North America could drive greater demand for our products and services.  We continue to deploy initiatives to further enhance our capabilities across our service center network and gain market share.  These include investments in analytics, strategic account penetration, sales process optimization, talent development, and digital channel solutions, as well as fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded product and service platform across fluid power, flow control, automation, and consumables solutions.", "\u2022 Extend our leading fluid power and flow control position as demand for comprehensive solutions grows.  We provide innovative fluid power and flow control solutions including systems design and engineering, electronic control integration, software programming, valve actuation, compliance consulting, fabrication and assembly, and dedicated service and repair.  Demand for these solutions is increasing across a variety of industrial, off-highway mobile, technology, and process related applications given a greater focus on power consumption, plant efficiency and automation, emissions control, electrification, remote monitoring, advancements in machining, regulatory and compliance standards, and data analytics.  We believe our service and engineering capabilities, shop network, and supplier relationships, combined with our software coding and smart technology application knowledge, are key competitive advantages.  We see opportunities to leverage these advantages across new and underserved geographies, as well as through new commercial solutions that could drive a greater share gain of this market opportunity in coming years.", "We are expanding our position and capabilities focused on advanced factory automation and smart technologies that optimize and connect customers\u2019 industrial supply chains.  We believe we have a favorable position to capture this addressable market given our technical product focus, service capabilities, embedded customer relationships and knowledge across direct production infrastructure and equipment, and existing supplier relationships.  Following several business acquisitions made since fiscal 2020, we now offer products and solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and distribution of machine vision, robotic technologies, and motion control.  Our emerging growth across these areas is diversifying our end-market exposure with greater penetration into technology, life sciences, logistics, and food and beverage industries.", "We expect to continue to expand our automation footprint and capabilities in coming years, as well as pursue opportunities tied to the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT).  We believe this market potential could be meaningful as technology continues to converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end-markets.", "\u2022 Execute ongoing operational initiatives supporting margin profile.  We have a number of initiatives focused on driving operational improvements throughout the organization.  Systems investments in recent years including common ERP platforms are supporting opportunities in leveraging shared services, refining our sales management process, and standardizing pricing and sourcing functions, while we continue to optimize our shop and distribution network and analytics.  We also remain focused on achieving margin synergies across our operations following expansion into flow control and automation.  This includes enhanced pricing functions, leveraging vendor procurement, freight savings, and refined cost management.  Combined with", "OPERATIONS Our distribution and sales network consists of approximately 445 locations in our Service Center Distribution  segment and 123 locations in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  This includes service centers, distribution  centers, and facilities tied to our fluid power, flow control, and automation operations.  Our service centers resemble  local inventory hubs located in close proximity to our customers and focused primarily on MRO related fulfillment  and service needs.  Our fluid power, flow control, and automation locations support technical and shop-oriented  services integral to the more specialized and integrated nature of the products and solutions they provide.  Other  operations and channels we market through include inventory management services for indirect consumable  supplies and digital solutions including our Applied.com website, electronic data interchange (EDI) and other  electronic interfaces with customers' technology platforms and plant maintenance systems.", "Our distribution centers provide daily service to our service centers, helping replenish inventories and shipping  products directly to customers where appropriate.  An efficient supply chain and timely delivery of our products is  vital to our value proposition particularly when customers require products for emergency repairs.  We utilize  dedicated third-party transportation providers, our own delivery vehicles, as well as surface and air common carrier  and courier services.  Customers may also pick up items at our service centers.  We maintain product inventory levels  at each service center tailored to the local market.  These inventories consist of standard items as well as other items  specific to local customer demand.", "Our operations are primarily based in the U.S. where 86% of our fiscal 2021 sales were generated.  We also have  international operations, the largest of which is in Canada (8% of fiscal 2021 sales) with the balance (6% of fiscal  2021 sales) in Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.", "SUPPLIERS We are a leading distributor of products including bearings, power transmission products, engineered fluid power  components and systems, specialty flow control solutions, advanced automation products, industrial rubber  products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.", "These products are generally supplied to us by manufacturers whom we serve as a non-exclusive distributor.  The  suppliers also may provide us product training, as well as sales and marketing support.  Authorizations to represent  particular suppliers and product lines vary by geographic region, particularly for our fluid power, flow control, and  automation businesses.  We believe our supplier relationships are generally good, and many have existed for  decades.  The disruption of relationships with certain suppliers, or the disruption of their operations, could adversely  affect our business.", "Our product suppliers typically confine their direct sales activities to large-volume transactions, mainly with large  original equipment manufacturers.  The suppliers generally do not sell maintenance and repair products directly to  the customer, but instead refer the customer to us or another distributor.", "MARKETS  We purchase from thousands of product manufacturers and resell the products to thousands of customers in a wide  variety of industries, including agriculture and food processing, cement, chemicals and petrochemicals, fabricated  metals, forest products, industrial machinery and equipment, life sciences, mining, oil and gas, primary metals,  technology, transportation, and utilities, as well as to government entities.  Customers range from very large  businesses, with which we may have multiple-location relationships, to very small ones.  We are not significantly  dependent on a single customer or group of customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on  our business as a whole, and no single customer accounts for more than 4% of our fiscal 2021 sales.", "We expect to pursue additional acquisitions aligned with our growth strategy and long-term financial targets.", "We view acquisitions as an important growth consideration given high fragmentation, greater operational and technical requirements, and supplier authorizations within the markets we serve.  We believe our sourcing strategy, cash generation capabilities, industry relationships, and operational discipline are key to our acquisition success.  In addition, dedicated corporate teams and related support functions provide strategic oversight of critical work streams and integration execution, which we believe enhances our ability to capture synergistic value.  Over the near to intermediate-term, our acquisition priorities are focused on continuing to expand our current offerings, while further enhancing our technical differentiation and value-added service capabilities.", "SERVICES We believe part of our success, differentiation, and competitive advantage is attributable to the comprehensive set of  services and solutions we provide, which we view as critical given the technical nature and application of our core  product offering of motion, power, control, and automation technologies.  The foundation of our service capabilities  lies with our technically oriented associate team, which includes engineers, industry segment specialists, mechanics,  technicians, fluid power specialists, as well as our systems, shop network, and supplier relationships.  We believe  knowledge and service capabilities relating to our core product offering are increasingly needed across our customer  base given skilled labor constraints within their operations, maintenance requirements, and more sophisticated plant  equipment and processes.  Our services and solutions help customers minimize production downtime, improve  machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs.  By providing high levels of service,  product and industry expertise, and technical support, while at the same time offering product breadth and  competitive pricing, we believe we develop stronger, longer-lasting, and more profitable customer relationships.    See the Reportable Segments section below for more detail on the various service solutions we provide to customers.", "REPORTABLE SEGMENTS We report results of operations in two segments: 1) Service Center Based Distribution, and 2) Fluid Power & Flow  Control.  In fiscal 2021, our Service Center Based Distribution segment represented 68% of our total sales, while our  Fluid Power & Flow Control segment represented 32% of our total sales.", "Service Center Based Distribution.  Our Service Center Based Distribution segment includes our legacy MRO  distribution operations across North America, Australia, and New Zealand.  This business operates through local  service centers and distribution centers with a focus on providing products and services addressing the maintenance  and repair of motion control infrastructure and production equipment.  Products primarily include industrial  bearings, motors, belting, drives, couplings, pumps, linear motion products, hydraulic and pneumatic components,  filtration supplies, and hoses, as well as other related supplies for general operational needs of customers\u2019 machinery  and equipment.", "Fluid Power & Flow Control.  Our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment includes our operations that specialize in  distributing, engineering, designing, integrating, and repairing hydraulic and pneumatic fluid power technologies,  and engineered flow control products and services.  We believe we are the largest distributor and solutions provider  of fluid power and industrial flow control products and solutions in the U.S.  The segment also includes our  operations that focus on advanced automation solutions, including machine vision, robotics, motion control, and  smart technologies.", "Our specialty flow control operations provide highly engineered process flow control products, solutions, and  services.  Products include pumps, valves, fittings, hoses, process instrumentation, actuators, and filtration supplies  which are used to control the flow of liquids and gases in mission-critical industrial applications.  Our flow control  products and services are focused on MRO related applications; OEMs; and engineering, procurement, and  construction (EPC) firms across a variety of industries including chemicals, steel, power, oil and gas, pulp and paper,  life sciences, pharmaceuticals, food and beverage, and general industrials.  Similar to our fluid power operations, our  flow control offering includes technical service capabilities such as flow control systems integration, repair services,  valve actuation, process instrumentation, pipe and hose fabrication, and compliance consulting.", "Our advanced automation operations provide solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and  distribution of machine vision, collaborative robots, mobile robots, RFID, industrial networking, and machine learning  technologies for OEMs, machine builders, integrators, and other industrial and technology end users.  Products and  solutions are marketed across a variety of industries including technology, medical, life sciences, logistics, consumer,  and general industrial.  Our automation business helps customers develop, produce, and integrate machine and  facility automation solutions using comprehensive technology and application knowledge.  A core element of our  strategy and value proposition within automation is our value-added and engineered solution capabilities, enabling  us to provide in-depth consultative, design, engineering, assembly, testing, and support services for various customer  requirements.", "HUMAN CAPITAL We attribute our business success to talented, dedicated employee associates who live our Core Values of integrity,  respect, customer focus, commitment to excellence, accountability, innovation, continuous improvement, and  teamwork.", "Associate Development.  We strive to attract, retain, and develop a diverse group of high-performing associates,  empowering them to achieve their potential and providing them opportunities to test their skills, increase their  responsibilities, and advance their careers.  Applied\u2019s commitment to associate development is reflected in our  investments in a learning management system (offering a wide array of internal facilitated training courses, supplier  product training, and other third-party courses), a modern social learning platform, and in-person training through  which associates can continually expand their knowledge base and position themselves to achieve their professional  goals.", "Diversity and Inclusion.  We are committed to a diverse and inclusive workplace that is respectful to all associates  and believe this serves as a cornerstone for a strong company.  We employ multiple initiatives to recruit, train, and  advance diverse associates.  In the area of recruitment, for example, we engage in on-campus events and targeted  recruitment strategies that increase our exposure to diverse populations in order to promote enhanced diversity in  our hiring.", "Health and Safety.  Applied is also committed to the safety and well-being of our associates.", "From the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we focused on protecting our associates\u2019 health and safety, while  ensuring our continued capability to serve our customers.  As a provider of critical parts, services, and solutions to  essential industries, Applied remained open for business.  We implemented significant changes to ensure a safe  operating environment for our associates and to protect our customers and communities, including remote work as  feasible, social distancing protocols, heightened sanitation procedures, and masking policies.  BACKLOG AND SEASONALITY  Backlog orders are not material to our business as a whole, although they are a more important factor for our fluid  power, flow control, and automation businesses.  Our business has exhibited minor seasonality.  In particular, sales  per day during the first half of our fiscal year have historically been slightly lower than the second half due, in part,  to the impact of customer plant shutdowns, summer vacations and holidays.", "PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES, AND LICENSES  Customer recognition of our service marks and trade names, including Applied Industrial Technologies\u00ae, Applied\u00ae,  and AIT\u00ae, is an important contributing factor to our sales.  Patents and licenses are not of material importance to  our business.", "RAW MATERIALS AND GENERAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS   Our operations are dependent on general industrial and economic conditions.  We would be adversely affected by  the unavailability of raw materials to our suppliers, prolonged labor disputes experienced by suppliers or customers,  or by events or conditions that have an adverse effect on industrial activity generally in the markets we serve or on  key customer industries.", "WORKING CAPITAL Our working capital position is discussed in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.", "In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could  materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the  only risks facing the Company.  Certain risks are identified below in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by  reference.", "Our business depends heavily on the operating levels of our customers and the factors that affect them,  including general economic conditions.  The markets for our products and services are subject to conditions or  events that affect demand for goods and materials that our customers produce.  Consequently, demand for our  products and services has been and will continue to be influenced by most of the same factors that affect demand  for and production of customers' goods and materials.", "When customers or prospective customers reduce production levels because of lower demand, increased supply,  higher costs, tight credit conditions, unfavorable currency exchange rates, adverse trade policies, foreign  competition, other competitive disadvantage, offshoring of production, or other reasons, their need for our products  and services diminishes.  Selling prices and terms of sale come under pressure, adversely affecting the profitability  and the durability of customer relationships, and credit losses may increase.  Inventory management becomes more  difficult in times of economic uncertainty.  Volatile economic and credit conditions also make it more difficult for us,  as well as our customers and suppliers, to forecast and plan future business activities.", "The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto continue to impact  our results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are uncertain  and cannot be predicted.  The COVID-19 pandemic created significant volatility, uncertainty, and economic  disruption.  The effects of the pandemic resulted in lost or delayed sales to us, and we experienced business  disruptions as we modified our business practices (including travel, work locations, and cancellation of physical  participation in meetings).  While the pandemic\u2019s impact on social and economic conditions has subsided, the extent  to which it will continue to impact our results of operations and financial condition will depend on evolving factors  that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the following: the duration, spread, and severity of the  pandemic, including due to virus variants, in the countries in which we operate; responsive measures taken by  governmental authorities, businesses, and individuals; the effect on our customers and their demand for our  products and services; the effect on our suppliers and disruptions to the global supply chain; our ability to sell and  provide our products and services and otherwise operate effectively, including as a result of travel restrictions and  associates working from home; disruptions to our operations resulting from associate illness; restrictions or  disruptions to, or reduced availability of, transportation; customers\u2019 ability to pay for our services and products;  closures of our facilities or those of our customers or suppliers; the impact of reduced customer demand on  purchasing incentives we earn from suppliers; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating  conditions can resume.  In addition, the pandemic\u2019s impact on the economy could affect the proper functioning of  financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates, product and energy costs, and interest rates.  The  pandemic\u2019s effects may also amplify the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,  and may continue to materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or  stock price.", "Consolidation in our customers' and suppliers' industries could adversely affect our business and financial  results.  Consolidation continues among our product suppliers and customers.  As customer industries consolidate  or customers otherwise aggregate their purchasing power, a greater proportion of our sales could be derived from  large volume contracts, which could adversely impact margins.  Consolidation among customers can produce  changes in their purchasing strategies, potentially shifting blocks of business among competing distributors and  contributing to volatility in our sales and pressure on prices.  Similarly, continued consolidation among suppliers  could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable pricing and other commercial terms for our inventory purchases.   There can be no assurance we will be able to take advantage of consolidation trends.", "An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings.  We operate in a highly competitive industry.  The  industry remains fragmented, but is consolidating.  Our principal competitors are specialist and general line  distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, flow control solutions,  automation technologies, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, oilfield  supplies, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and  multinational operations, and can include catalog and e-commerce companies.  Competition is largely focused in the  local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities, and price.  Existing competitors have, and future competitors may have, greater financial or other resources than we do,  broader or more appealing product or service offerings, greater market presence, stronger relationships with key  suppliers or customers, or better name recognition.  If existing or future competitors seek to gain or to retain market  share by aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, or otherwise through competitive advantage, our sales and  profitability could be adversely affected.  Our success will also be affected by our ability to continue to provide  competitive offerings as customer preferences or demands evolve, for example with respect to product and service  types, brands, quality, or prices.  Technological evolution or other factors can render product and service offerings  obsolete, potentially impairing our competitive position and our inventory values.", "Our operations outside the United States increase our exposure to global economic and political  conditions and currency exchange volatility.  Foreign operations contributed 14% of our sales in 2021.  This  presence outside the U.S. increases risks associated with exposure to more volatile economic conditions, political  instability, cultural and legal differences in conducting business (including corrupt practices), economic and trade  policy actions, and currency exchange fluctuations.", "Our business could be adversely affected if we do not successfully execute our strategies to grow sales and  earnings.  We have numerous strategies and initiatives to grow sales, leveraging the breadth of our product  offering, supplier relationships, and value-added technical capabilities to differentiate us and improve our", "competitive position.  We also continually seek to enhance gross margins, manage costs, and otherwise improve  earnings.  Many of our activities target improvements to the consistency of our operating practices across our  hundreds of locations.  If we do not implement these initiatives effectively, or if for other reasons they are  unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected.", "Loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, or changes in distribution programs could  adversely affect our sales and earnings.  Our business depends on maintaining an immediately available supply of  various products to meet customer demand.  Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding,  but are terminable by either party.  The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability  of their products, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and have a material adverse effect on our business.  Supply interruptions could arise from raw materials shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity or utilization to  meet demand, financial problems or insolvency, trade issues, labor disputes, public health emergencies, weather  conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control.", "Changes in customer or product mix and downward pressure on sales prices could cause our gross profit  percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Because we serve thousands of customers in many end markets, and offer  millions of products, with varying profitability levels, changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross  profit percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Downward pressure on sales prices could also cause our gross profit  percentage to fluctuate or decline.  We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of deflation,  pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition.", "Our ability to transact business is highly reliant on information systems.  A disruption or security breach  could materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operation.  We depend on information  systems to, among other things, process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections,  purchase products, manage accounts payable processes, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost- effective operations, provide superior service to customers, conduct business communications, and compile financial  results.  A serious, prolonged disruption of our information systems, due to man-made or natural causes, including  power or telecommunications outage, or breach in security, could materially impair fundamental business processes  and increase expenses, decrease sales, or otherwise reduce earnings.", "Because of our reliance on information systems, we are vulnerable to the growing threat of damage or intrusion  from computer viruses or other cyber-attacks, including ransomware and business e-mail compromise, on our  systems.  Despite precautions taken to prevent or mitigate the risks of such incidents, breaches of our systems could  not only cause business disruption, but could also result in the theft of funds, the theft, loss, or disclosure of", "Acquisitions are a key component of our anticipated growth.  We may not be able to identify or to  complete future acquisitions, to integrate them effectively into our operations, or to realize their  anticipated benefits.  Many industries we serve are mature.  As a result, acquisitions of businesses have been  important to our growth.  While we wish to continue to acquire businesses, we may not be able to identify and to  negotiate suitable acquisitions, to obtain financing for them on satisfactory terms, or otherwise to complete  acquisitions.  In addition, existing and future competitors, and private equity firms, increasingly compete with us for  acquisitions, which can increase prices and reduce the number of suitable opportunities; the acquisitions they make  can also adversely impact our market position.", "We seek acquisition opportunities that complement and expand our operations.  However, substantial costs, delays,  or other difficulties related to integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business or financial results.  For  example, we could face significant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating information systems, personnel,  and operations, and implementing procedures and controls in a timely and efficient manner.", "An interruption of operations at our headquarters or distribution centers, or in our means of transporting  product, could adversely impact our business.  Our business depends on maintaining operating activity at our  headquarters and distribution centers, and being able to receive and deliver product in a timely manner.  A serious,  prolonged interruption due to power or telecommunications outage, security incident, terrorist attack, public health  emergency, earthquake, extreme weather events, other natural disasters, fire, flood, transportation disruption, or  other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.", "Our business depends on our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain qualified employees.  Our  success depends on hiring, developing, motivating, and retaining key employees, including executive, managerial,  sales, professional, and other personnel.  We may have difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel.  In  addition, we may have difficulty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against  us.  With respect to sales and customer service positions in particular, we greatly benefit from having employees who  are familiar with the products and services we sell, and their applications, as well as with our customer and supplier", "relationships.  The loss of key employees or our failure to attract and retain other qualified workers could disrupt or  adversely affect our business.  In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased competition  for employees, shortages of qualified workers, higher employee turnover (including through retirement as the  workforce ages), or increased employee compensation or benefit costs.", "We believe having a local presence is important to serving our customers, so we maintain service centers and other  operations in local markets throughout the countries in which we operate.  At June 30, 2021, we owned real  properties at 115 locations and leased 418 locations.  Certain properties house more than one operation.", "The properties in Baldwinsville, Newark, Midland, and Stafford are used in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Fontana and Longview properties are used in both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and the Fluid  Power & Flow Control segment.  The remaining properties are used in the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.", "We consider our properties generally sufficient to meet our requirements for office space and inventory stocking.", "When opening new operations, we have tended to lease rather than purchase real property.  We do not consider  any service center, distribution center, or shop property to be material, because we believe that, if it becomes  necessary or desirable to relocate an operation, other suitable property could be found.", "In addition to operating locations, we own or lease certain properties which in the aggregate are not material and  are either for sale, lease, or sublease to third parties due to a relocation or closing.  We also may lease or sublease to  others unused portions of buildings.", "Fiscal 2021 ended on a positive note as underlying demand continued to strengthen across both segments during  the fourth quarter reflecting sustained recovery in our core end-markets and momentum across our internal growth  initiatives.", "We are managing inflation well and controlling costs, while benefiting from productivity enhancements.  Fiscal 2022 is off to a positive start with organic sales through early August up by a high-teens percent over the prior  year and customer indications signaling sustained demand momentum.", "Applied monitors several economic indices that have been key indicators for industrial economic activity in the United  States.  These include the Industrial Production (IP) and Manufacturing Capacity Utilization (MCU) indices published  by the Federal Reserve Board and the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) published by the Institute for Supply  Management (ISM).  Historically, our performance correlates well with the MCU, which measures productivity and  calculates a ratio of actual manufacturing output versus potential full capacity output.  When manufacturing plants  are running at a high rate of capacity, they tend to wear out machinery and require replacement parts.", "We evaluate the recoverability of our slow-moving and inactive inventories at least quarterly.  We estimate the  recoverable cost of such inventory by product type while considering factors such as its age, historic and current  demand trends, the physical condition of the inventory, as well as assumptions regarding future demand.  Our ability  to recover our cost for slow moving or obsolete inventory can be affected by such factors as general market  conditions, future customer demand and relationships with suppliers.  A significant portion of the products we hold  in inventory have long shelf lives and are not highly susceptible to obsolescence.", "Important risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to the operations levels of our  customers and the economic factors that affect them; risks relating to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic;  changes in the prices for products and services relative to the cost of providing them; reduction in supplier inventory  purchase incentives; loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, changes in supplier distribution  programs, inability of suppliers to perform, and transportation disruptions; the cost of products and energy and  other operating costs; changes in customer preferences for products and services of the nature and brands sold by  us; changes in customer procurement policies and practices; competitive pressures; our reliance on information  systems and risks relating to their proper functioning, the security of those systems, and the data stored in or  transmitted through them; the impact of economic conditions on the collectability of trade receivables; reduced  demand for our products in targeted markets due to reasons including consolidation in customer industries; our  ability to retain and attract qualified sales and customer service personnel and other skilled executives, managers and  professionals; our ability to identify and complete acquisitions, integrate them effectively, and realize their  anticipated benefits; the variability, timing and nature of new business opportunities including acquisitions, alliances,  customer relationships, and supplier authorizations; the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in connection  with acquisitions; our ability to access capital markets as needed on reasonable terms; disruption of operations at our  headquarters or distribution centers; risks and uncertainties associated with our foreign operations, including volatile  economic conditions, political instability, cultural and legal differences, and currency exchange fluctuations; the  potential for goodwill and intangible asset impairment; changes in accounting policies and practices; our ability to  maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; organizational changes within the Company; risks related  to legal proceedings to which we are a party; potentially adverse government regulation, legislation, or policies, both  enacted and under consideration, including with respect to federal tax policy, international trade, data privacy and  security, and government contracting; and the occurrence of extraordinary events (including prolonged labor  disputes, power outages, telecommunication outages, terrorist acts, public health emergency, earthquakes, extreme  weather events, other natural disasters, fires, floods, and accidents).  Other factors and unanticipated events could  also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.", "Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the \u201cCompany\u201d or \u201cApplied\u201d) is a leading value-added  distributor and technical solutions provider of industrial motion, fluid power, flow control, automation technologies,  and related maintenance supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve  MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all  industrial markets through our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  Although  the Company does not generally manufacture the products it sells, it does assemble and repair certain products and  systems.", "Our leading brands, specialized  services, and comprehensive knowledge serve MRO and OEM end users in virtually all industrial markets through  our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.", "About the Cover: As the leading technical products,  services and solutions provider to industrial markets, Applied  continually strives to enhance customer partnerships \u2013 even  in challenging times.", "In recognition of our excellent support  and great customer service, our Chula Vista, CA service  center team received a Supplier Recognition Award for going  above and beyond on a consistent basis.", "Across the organization, we can look back at  the solid progress we have made and be proud of how well we served and supported our  customers, critical industrial infrastructure, and our fellow associates.", "Our operational procedures  and protocols \u2013 aligned with the CDC, OSHA and other leading health organizations \u2013 proved  beneficial in our resolve.  During the initial weeks of the COVID-19 pandemic, I stated my belief that Applied\u00ae has never been in a better position to manage  through the current environment and exit the pandemic-driven downturn even stronger.", "This is a direct reflection of the tremendous team we have across the organization  and highlights the strong potential that lies ahead.", "As fiscal 2021 progressed, we saw order momentum intensify as customers increased production activity across their facilities and  turned to us for critical MRO support.", "Our local presence, and expanding technical and service capabilities proved impactful as  customers began to reaccelerate growth investments and solidify supply chains.", "In addition, we benefited from our strategic focus  to expand our service offerings and end-market mix.", "Of special mention is the recent work of our flow control teams and their  involvement in providing critical products and solutions for the COVID-19 vaccine production.", "What we have gained and accomplished since the onset of the pandemic is significant  and sets the stage for our fiscal 2022 and years to come.", "Looking forward, we have many exciting near-term opportunities to  productively and effectively impact our customers as the leading technical products, services and solutions provider to industrial  markets.", "We join many others in being hopeful and excited about the prospects for our health, well-being and return to familiar activity \u2013  personally and professionally.", "Still, as we have experienced since its onset, the COVID journey is a marathon, not a sprint, and we  remain firm on providing a healthy and safe work environment at Applied.", "Ensuring we satisfy our customers\u2019 needs while also  adhering to associate safety remains our primary objective.", "2 While we are still in the early innings of fully capitalizing on our potential, we are clearly gaining momentum, with related  business wins increasing and our broader teams actively engaged.", "Having launched in September 2020, we have seen the We Are Applied SM campaign take hold \u2013 internally and externally \u2013  showcasing our vast experience, innovative technologies and multi-channel initiatives that work together to make us THE  supplier of choice for technical MRO, OE, and return-enhancing solutions across critical industrial infrastructure.", "It also serves  as a timely prelude to our approaching 100-year anniversary, demonstrating our strong foundation and the many chapters  yet to be written on the successful story of Applied. \u201cNew opportunities\u201d and \u201cexpanding growth potential\u201d are words that accurately describe Applied and continue to  inspire our associates.", "This view reflects the deep belief in our value proposition and technical industry positon, as well as  a long-standing commitment to operational excellence.", "These attributes have strengthened our competitive moat, while  expanding our addressable market in recent years \u2013 providing an engaging path for faster growth and margin expansion.  We have the most comprehensive portfolio and technical service capabilities, premier engineered solution expertise, and  greatest track record of consistency and commitment across our core industrial product categories.", "We are applying a  similar focus into new emerging industrial solutions as we adapt and position the Company for years to come.", "Our strong  local presence and ongoing talent investment provide further support to this foundation.", "Across Applied, we are eager to demonstrate our full value-add as we continue to leverage our differentiated industry  position.", "From our comprehensive MRO capabilities to our technical products and engineered solutions, we have multiple  channels to accelerate growth.", "Central to this effort is fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded fluid power,  flow control, automation, consumables, and e-business capabilities.", "We can see evidence of this cross-selling potential  emerging throughout the Company, supported by our We Are Applied SM business positioning and marketing campaign.", "Following several acquisitions over the past two years and ongoing execution of our strategic growth initiatives, we have  established Applied as a leading distributor and solutions provider of advanced factory automation technologies focused  on machine vision, robotics, motion control, and digital networking.", "Our expanding automation offering aligns with and  complements related trends across our legacy operations.", "This includes fluid power where our industry-leading capabilities  around electronic integration, software coding, pneumatics automation, and smart technology applications are driving  new growth opportunities as customers increasingly focus on machine advancements and data analytics.", "In addition, we  continue to expand our industrial IoT offering throughout our Service Center network to address our customers\u2019 Factory of  the Future initiatives.", "We are encouraged by our progress in identifying and developing opportunities aimed at connecting our automation and  smart technology capabilities across varied vertical markets, such as Semiconductors & Electronics, Medical & Life Science,  Food Processing, Logistics, and Data Centers.", "Our growing position across these emerging industrial technologies together  with our holistic design, assembly, and integration solutions are driving greater recognition across our served industries.  We aim to expand this position in coming years, presenting a significant growth opportunity as technology continues to  converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end markets.", "Collectively, we recognize our business requirements and social responsibility in serving all stakeholders.", "Our updated  Corporate Social Responsibility report highlights this ongoing progress and demonstrated commitment to ensuring that  Applied conducts business fairly, honestly and ethically, in every location where we do business.", "Clearly, we have relevant profitable growth opportunities to help us execute our strategic plan elements of Core Growth;  Products and Services Expansion; Automation, Fluid Power, and Flow Control Leadership; Operational Excellence; and  Acquisitions.", "We are fully prepared to leverage our capabilities and build upon our momentum\u2026 serving customers and  generating benefits for associates, suppliers, communities and shareholders.", "On behalf of all of Applied, we thank you not only for your continued trust in Applied, but for recognizing our significant  value and potential.", "We are proud of our accomplishments to date, and we continue to believe our best days are ahead\u2026   Working Together, Winning Together!", "As we enter fiscal 2022 \u2013 and our 99th year of doing business \u2013 the resilient nature of Applied is apparent through  individual efforts, teamwork, cross-functional collaboration, and solid financial performance.", "As markets stabilize  and continue to demonstrate sequential growth, we will take full advantage of the fundamental drivers and strategic  initiatives that will benefit our business throughout our long-range strategy horizon\u2026 propelling us to our 100-year  anniversary in 2023 and beyond!", "We are a leading distributor and solutions provider of industrial motion, power, control, and automation  technologies.  Through our comprehensive network of approximately 5,900 employee associates and 568 facilities  including service center, fluid power, flow control, and automation operations, as well as repair shops and  distribution centers, we offer a selection of more than 7.5 million stock keeping units with a focus on industrial  bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, specialty flow control, and advanced  factory automation solutions.  We market our products with a set of service solutions including inventory  management, engineering, design, assembly, repair, and systems integration, as well as customized mechanical,  fabricated rubber, and shop services.  Our customers use our products and services for both MRO (maintenance,  repair, and operating) and OEM (original equipment manufacturing) applications across a variety of end markets  primarily in North America, as well as Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.  Headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio,  Applied and its predecessor companies have engaged in business since 1923.", "Our internet address is www.applied.com.  The following documents are available free of charge via hyperlink from  the investor relations area of our website:", "VALUE PROPOSITION We serve a segment of the industrial market that requires technical expertise and service given that our products and  solutions are directly tied to companies\u2019 production and efficiency initiatives.  As such, we believe we are integral to  our customers\u2019 supply chains considering the critical nature and direct exposure our solutions have on our customers\u2019  core production equipment and plant capabilities.  While we compete with other distributors and service providers  offering products and solutions addressing this area of the industrial supply chain, we believe our industry position  and value proposition benefits from relative advantages tied to the following key attributes:", "We focus on helping customers minimize their production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce  overall procurement and maintenance costs, as well as optimize the efficiency and safety of their facilities and  equipment.  A primary focus for our service center network is responding to a critical \u201cbreak-fix\u201d situation, which  requires knowledge of a customer\u2019s facility, localized inventory, timely delivery capabilities, service execution, and  accountability.  In addition, our fluid power, flow control, and automation operations design, engineer, and  integrate solutions focused on making a customer\u2019s operations and equipment more productive, cost-efficient, and", "automated.  We believe our products and solutions are increasingly critical within the industrial supply chain given an  aging and tighter customer labor force, more sophisticated production equipment and processes, a greater focus on  plant floor optimization, and compliance and regulatory requirements.", "INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION We primarily compete within North America which we believe offers significant growth potential given our industry  position, established distribution and sales network, market fragmentation, and customer technical requirements, as  well as opportunities tied to automation and smart technologies.  Growth within our industry is influenced by  broader industrial production and capacity utilization, as well as inflation, labor dynamics, capital spending,  geopolitical events, factory optimization initiatives, changes in industrial equipment technologies, and supply chain  requirements.", "Our principal competitors are specialist and general line distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid  power components and systems, flow control solutions, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, and  automation solutions, and to a lesser extent providers of tools, safety products, and other industrial and  maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational operations.  We also  compete with original equipment manufacturers and integrators.  The identity and number of our competitors vary  throughout the geographic, industry, and product markets we serve.", "STRATEGIC GROWTH AND OPERATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES \u2022 Capture market share across our core service center network.  Our network of service centers located close to industrial companies allows us to respond quickly and effectively to critical MRO situations involving direct production infrastructure and industrial equipment.  We believe more sophisticated industrial production processes and customer labor constraints, as well as increased industrial capacity and manufacturing activity across North America could drive greater demand for our products and services.  We continue to deploy initiatives to further enhance our capabilities across our service center network and gain market share.  These include investments in analytics, strategic account penetration, sales process optimization, talent development, and digital channel solutions, as well as fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded product and service platform across fluid power, flow control, automation, and consumables solutions.", "\u2022 Extend our leading fluid power and flow control position as demand for comprehensive solutions grows.  We provide innovative fluid power and flow control solutions including systems design and engineering, electronic control integration, software programming, valve actuation, compliance consulting, fabrication and assembly, and dedicated service and repair.  Demand for these solutions is increasing across a variety of industrial, off-highway mobile, technology, and process related applications given a greater focus on power consumption, plant efficiency and automation, emissions control, electrification, remote monitoring, advancements in machining, regulatory and compliance standards, and data analytics.  We believe our service and engineering capabilities, shop network, and supplier relationships, combined with our software coding and smart technology application knowledge, are key competitive advantages.  We see opportunities to leverage these advantages across new and underserved geographies, as well as through new commercial solutions that could drive a greater share gain of this market opportunity in coming years.", "We are expanding our position and capabilities focused on advanced factory automation and smart technologies that optimize and connect customers\u2019 industrial supply chains.  We believe we have a favorable position to capture this addressable market given our technical product focus, service capabilities, embedded customer relationships and knowledge across direct production infrastructure and equipment, and existing supplier relationships.  Following several business acquisitions made since fiscal 2020, we now offer products and solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and distribution of machine vision, robotic technologies, and motion control.  Our emerging growth across these areas is diversifying our end-market exposure with greater penetration into technology, life sciences, logistics, and food and beverage industries.", "We expect to continue to expand our automation footprint and capabilities in coming years, as well as pursue opportunities tied to the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT).  We believe this market potential could be meaningful as technology continues to converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end-markets.", "\u2022 Execute ongoing operational initiatives supporting margin profile.  We have a number of initiatives focused on driving operational improvements throughout the organization.  Systems investments in recent years including common ERP platforms are supporting opportunities in leveraging shared services, refining our sales management process, and standardizing pricing and sourcing functions, while we continue to optimize our shop and distribution network and analytics.  We also remain focused on achieving margin synergies across our operations following expansion into flow control and automation.  This includes enhanced pricing functions, leveraging vendor procurement, freight savings, and refined cost management.  Combined with", "OPERATIONS Our distribution and sales network consists of approximately 445 locations in our Service Center Distribution  segment and 123 locations in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  This includes service centers, distribution  centers, and facilities tied to our fluid power, flow control, and automation operations.  Our service centers resemble  local inventory hubs located in close proximity to our customers and focused primarily on MRO related fulfillment  and service needs.  Our fluid power, flow control, and automation locations support technical and shop-oriented  services integral to the more specialized and integrated nature of the products and solutions they provide.  Other  operations and channels we market through include inventory management services for indirect consumable  supplies and digital solutions including our Applied.com website, electronic data interchange (EDI) and other  electronic interfaces with customers' technology platforms and plant maintenance systems.", "Our distribution centers provide daily service to our service centers, helping replenish inventories and shipping  products directly to customers where appropriate.  An efficient supply chain and timely delivery of our products is  vital to our value proposition particularly when customers require products for emergency repairs.  We utilize  dedicated third-party transportation providers, our own delivery vehicles, as well as surface and air common carrier  and courier services.  Customers may also pick up items at our service centers.  We maintain product inventory levels  at each service center tailored to the local market.  These inventories consist of standard items as well as other items  specific to local customer demand.", "Our operations are primarily based in the U.S. where 86% of our fiscal 2021 sales were generated.  We also have  international operations, the largest of which is in Canada (8% of fiscal 2021 sales) with the balance (6% of fiscal  2021 sales) in Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.", "SUPPLIERS We are a leading distributor of products including bearings, power transmission products, engineered fluid power  components and systems, specialty flow control solutions, advanced automation products, industrial rubber  products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.", "These products are generally supplied to us by manufacturers whom we serve as a non-exclusive distributor.  The  suppliers also may provide us product training, as well as sales and marketing support.  Authorizations to represent  particular suppliers and product lines vary by geographic region, particularly for our fluid power, flow control, and  automation businesses.  We believe our supplier relationships are generally good, and many have existed for  decades.  The disruption of relationships with certain suppliers, or the disruption of their operations, could adversely  affect our business.", "Our product suppliers typically confine their direct sales activities to large-volume transactions, mainly with large  original equipment manufacturers.  The suppliers generally do not sell maintenance and repair products directly to  the customer, but instead refer the customer to us or another distributor.", "MARKETS  We purchase from thousands of product manufacturers and resell the products to thousands of customers in a wide  variety of industries, including agriculture and food processing, cement, chemicals and petrochemicals, fabricated  metals, forest products, industrial machinery and equipment, life sciences, mining, oil and gas, primary metals,  technology, transportation, and utilities, as well as to government entities.  Customers range from very large  businesses, with which we may have multiple-location relationships, to very small ones.  We are not significantly  dependent on a single customer or group of customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on  our business as a whole, and no single customer accounts for more than 4% of our fiscal 2021 sales.", "We expect to pursue additional acquisitions aligned with our growth strategy and long-term financial targets.", "We view acquisitions as an important growth consideration given high fragmentation, greater operational and technical requirements, and supplier authorizations within the markets we serve.  We believe our sourcing strategy, cash generation capabilities, industry relationships, and operational discipline are key to our acquisition success.  In addition, dedicated corporate teams and related support functions provide strategic oversight of critical work streams and integration execution, which we believe enhances our ability to capture synergistic value.  Over the near to intermediate-term, our acquisition priorities are focused on continuing to expand our current offerings, while further enhancing our technical differentiation and value-added service capabilities.", "SERVICES We believe part of our success, differentiation, and competitive advantage is attributable to the comprehensive set of  services and solutions we provide, which we view as critical given the technical nature and application of our core  product offering of motion, power, control, and automation technologies.  The foundation of our service capabilities  lies with our technically oriented associate team, which includes engineers, industry segment specialists, mechanics,  technicians, fluid power specialists, as well as our systems, shop network, and supplier relationships.  We believe  knowledge and service capabilities relating to our core product offering are increasingly needed across our customer  base given skilled labor constraints within their operations, maintenance requirements, and more sophisticated plant  equipment and processes.  Our services and solutions help customers minimize production downtime, improve  machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs.  By providing high levels of service,  product and industry expertise, and technical support, while at the same time offering product breadth and  competitive pricing, we believe we develop stronger, longer-lasting, and more profitable customer relationships.    See the Reportable Segments section below for more detail on the various service solutions we provide to customers.", "REPORTABLE SEGMENTS We report results of operations in two segments: 1) Service Center Based Distribution, and 2) Fluid Power & Flow  Control.  In fiscal 2021, our Service Center Based Distribution segment represented 68% of our total sales, while our  Fluid Power & Flow Control segment represented 32% of our total sales.", "Service Center Based Distribution.  Our Service Center Based Distribution segment includes our legacy MRO  distribution operations across North America, Australia, and New Zealand.  This business operates through local  service centers and distribution centers with a focus on providing products and services addressing the maintenance  and repair of motion control infrastructure and production equipment.  Products primarily include industrial  bearings, motors, belting, drives, couplings, pumps, linear motion products, hydraulic and pneumatic components,  filtration supplies, and hoses, as well as other related supplies for general operational needs of customers\u2019 machinery  and equipment.", "Fluid Power & Flow Control.  Our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment includes our operations that specialize in  distributing, engineering, designing, integrating, and repairing hydraulic and pneumatic fluid power technologies,  and engineered flow control products and services.  We believe we are the largest distributor and solutions provider  of fluid power and industrial flow control products and solutions in the U.S.  The segment also includes our  operations that focus on advanced automation solutions, including machine vision, robotics, motion control, and  smart technologies.", "Our specialty flow control operations provide highly engineered process flow control products, solutions, and  services.  Products include pumps, valves, fittings, hoses, process instrumentation, actuators, and filtration supplies  which are used to control the flow of liquids and gases in mission-critical industrial applications.  Our flow control  products and services are focused on MRO related applications; OEMs; and engineering, procurement, and  construction (EPC) firms across a variety of industries including chemicals, steel, power, oil and gas, pulp and paper,  life sciences, pharmaceuticals, food and beverage, and general industrials.  Similar to our fluid power operations, our  flow control offering includes technical service capabilities such as flow control systems integration, repair services,  valve actuation, process instrumentation, pipe and hose fabrication, and compliance consulting.", "Our advanced automation operations provide solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and  distribution of machine vision, collaborative robots, mobile robots, RFID, industrial networking, and machine learning  technologies for OEMs, machine builders, integrators, and other industrial and technology end users.  Products and  solutions are marketed across a variety of industries including technology, medical, life sciences, logistics, consumer,  and general industrial.  Our automation business helps customers develop, produce, and integrate machine and  facility automation solutions using comprehensive technology and application knowledge.  A core element of our  strategy and value proposition within automation is our value-added and engineered solution capabilities, enabling  us to provide in-depth consultative, design, engineering, assembly, testing, and support services for various customer  requirements.", "HUMAN CAPITAL We attribute our business success to talented, dedicated employee associates who live our Core Values of integrity,  respect, customer focus, commitment to excellence, accountability, innovation, continuous improvement, and  teamwork.", "Associate Development.  We strive to attract, retain, and develop a diverse group of high-performing associates,  empowering them to achieve their potential and providing them opportunities to test their skills, increase their  responsibilities, and advance their careers.  Applied\u2019s commitment to associate development is reflected in our  investments in a learning management system (offering a wide array of internal facilitated training courses, supplier  product training, and other third-party courses), a modern social learning platform, and in-person training through  which associates can continually expand their knowledge base and position themselves to achieve their professional  goals.", "Diversity and Inclusion.  We are committed to a diverse and inclusive workplace that is respectful to all associates  and believe this serves as a cornerstone for a strong company.  We employ multiple initiatives to recruit, train, and  advance diverse associates.  In the area of recruitment, for example, we engage in on-campus events and targeted  recruitment strategies that increase our exposure to diverse populations in order to promote enhanced diversity in  our hiring.", "Health and Safety.  Applied is also committed to the safety and well-being of our associates.", "From the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we focused on protecting our associates\u2019 health and safety, while  ensuring our continued capability to serve our customers.  As a provider of critical parts, services, and solutions to  essential industries, Applied remained open for business.  We implemented significant changes to ensure a safe  operating environment for our associates and to protect our customers and communities, including remote work as  feasible, social distancing protocols, heightened sanitation procedures, and masking policies.  BACKLOG AND SEASONALITY  Backlog orders are not material to our business as a whole, although they are a more important factor for our fluid  power, flow control, and automation businesses.  Our business has exhibited minor seasonality.  In particular, sales  per day during the first half of our fiscal year have historically been slightly lower than the second half due, in part,  to the impact of customer plant shutdowns, summer vacations and holidays.", "PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES, AND LICENSES  Customer recognition of our service marks and trade names, including Applied Industrial Technologies\u00ae, Applied\u00ae,  and AIT\u00ae, is an important contributing factor to our sales.  Patents and licenses are not of material importance to  our business.", "RAW MATERIALS AND GENERAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS   Our operations are dependent on general industrial and economic conditions.  We would be adversely affected by  the unavailability of raw materials to our suppliers, prolonged labor disputes experienced by suppliers or customers,  or by events or conditions that have an adverse effect on industrial activity generally in the markets we serve or on  key customer industries.", "WORKING CAPITAL Our working capital position is discussed in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.", "In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could  materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the  only risks facing the Company.  Certain risks are identified below in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by  reference.", "Our business depends heavily on the operating levels of our customers and the factors that affect them,  including general economic conditions.  The markets for our products and services are subject to conditions or  events that affect demand for goods and materials that our customers produce.  Consequently, demand for our  products and services has been and will continue to be influenced by most of the same factors that affect demand  for and production of customers' goods and materials.", "When customers or prospective customers reduce production levels because of lower demand, increased supply,  higher costs, tight credit conditions, unfavorable currency exchange rates, adverse trade policies, foreign  competition, other competitive disadvantage, offshoring of production, or other reasons, their need for our products  and services diminishes.  Selling prices and terms of sale come under pressure, adversely affecting the profitability  and the durability of customer relationships, and credit losses may increase.  Inventory management becomes more  difficult in times of economic uncertainty.  Volatile economic and credit conditions also make it more difficult for us,  as well as our customers and suppliers, to forecast and plan future business activities.", "The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto continue to impact  our results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are uncertain  and cannot be predicted.  The COVID-19 pandemic created significant volatility, uncertainty, and economic  disruption.  The effects of the pandemic resulted in lost or delayed sales to us, and we experienced business  disruptions as we modified our business practices (including travel, work locations, and cancellation of physical  participation in meetings).  While the pandemic\u2019s impact on social and economic conditions has subsided, the extent  to which it will continue to impact our results of operations and financial condition will depend on evolving factors  that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the following: the duration, spread, and severity of the  pandemic, including due to virus variants, in the countries in which we operate; responsive measures taken by  governmental authorities, businesses, and individuals; the effect on our customers and their demand for our  products and services; the effect on our suppliers and disruptions to the global supply chain; our ability to sell and  provide our products and services and otherwise operate effectively, including as a result of travel restrictions and  associates working from home; disruptions to our operations resulting from associate illness; restrictions or  disruptions to, or reduced availability of, transportation; customers\u2019 ability to pay for our services and products;  closures of our facilities or those of our customers or suppliers; the impact of reduced customer demand on  purchasing incentives we earn from suppliers; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating  conditions can resume.  In addition, the pandemic\u2019s impact on the economy could affect the proper functioning of  financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates, product and energy costs, and interest rates.  The  pandemic\u2019s effects may also amplify the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,  and may continue to materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or  stock price.", "Consolidation in our customers' and suppliers' industries could adversely affect our business and financial  results.  Consolidation continues among our product suppliers and customers.  As customer industries consolidate  or customers otherwise aggregate their purchasing power, a greater proportion of our sales could be derived from  large volume contracts, which could adversely impact margins.  Consolidation among customers can produce  changes in their purchasing strategies, potentially shifting blocks of business among competing distributors and  contributing to volatility in our sales and pressure on prices.  Similarly, continued consolidation among suppliers  could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable pricing and other commercial terms for our inventory purchases.   There can be no assurance we will be able to take advantage of consolidation trends.", "An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings.  We operate in a highly competitive industry.  The  industry remains fragmented, but is consolidating.  Our principal competitors are specialist and general line  distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, flow control solutions,  automation technologies, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, oilfield  supplies, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and  multinational operations, and can include catalog and e-commerce companies.  Competition is largely focused in the  local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities, and price.  Existing competitors have, and future competitors may have, greater financial or other resources than we do,  broader or more appealing product or service offerings, greater market presence, stronger relationships with key  suppliers or customers, or better name recognition.  If existing or future competitors seek to gain or to retain market  share by aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, or otherwise through competitive advantage, our sales and  profitability could be adversely affected.  Our success will also be affected by our ability to continue to provide  competitive offerings as customer preferences or demands evolve, for example with respect to product and service  types, brands, quality, or prices.  Technological evolution or other factors can render product and service offerings  obsolete, potentially impairing our competitive position and our inventory values.", "Our operations outside the United States increase our exposure to global economic and political  conditions and currency exchange volatility.  Foreign operations contributed 14% of our sales in 2021.  This  presence outside the U.S. increases risks associated with exposure to more volatile economic conditions, political  instability, cultural and legal differences in conducting business (including corrupt practices), economic and trade  policy actions, and currency exchange fluctuations.", "Our business could be adversely affected if we do not successfully execute our strategies to grow sales and  earnings.  We have numerous strategies and initiatives to grow sales, leveraging the breadth of our product  offering, supplier relationships, and value-added technical capabilities to differentiate us and improve our", "competitive position.  We also continually seek to enhance gross margins, manage costs, and otherwise improve  earnings.  Many of our activities target improvements to the consistency of our operating practices across our  hundreds of locations.  If we do not implement these initiatives effectively, or if for other reasons they are  unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected.", "Loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, or changes in distribution programs could  adversely affect our sales and earnings.  Our business depends on maintaining an immediately available supply of  various products to meet customer demand.  Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding,  but are terminable by either party.  The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability  of their products, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and have a material adverse effect on our business.  Supply interruptions could arise from raw materials shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity or utilization to  meet demand, financial problems or insolvency, trade issues, labor disputes, public health emergencies, weather  conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control.", "Changes in customer or product mix and downward pressure on sales prices could cause our gross profit  percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Because we serve thousands of customers in many end markets, and offer  millions of products, with varying profitability levels, changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross  profit percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Downward pressure on sales prices could also cause our gross profit  percentage to fluctuate or decline.  We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of deflation,  pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition.", "Our ability to transact business is highly reliant on information systems.  A disruption or security breach  could materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operation.  We depend on information  systems to, among other things, process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections,  purchase products, manage accounts payable processes, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost- effective operations, provide superior service to customers, conduct business communications, and compile financial  results.  A serious, prolonged disruption of our information systems, due to man-made or natural causes, including  power or telecommunications outage, or breach in security, could materially impair fundamental business processes  and increase expenses, decrease sales, or otherwise reduce earnings.", "Because of our reliance on information systems, we are vulnerable to the growing threat of damage or intrusion  from computer viruses or other cyber-attacks, including ransomware and business e-mail compromise, on our  systems.  Despite precautions taken to prevent or mitigate the risks of such incidents, breaches of our systems could  not only cause business disruption, but could also result in the theft of funds, the theft, loss, or disclosure of", "Acquisitions are a key component of our anticipated growth.  We may not be able to identify or to  complete future acquisitions, to integrate them effectively into our operations, or to realize their  anticipated benefits.  Many industries we serve are mature.  As a result, acquisitions of businesses have been  important to our growth.  While we wish to continue to acquire businesses, we may not be able to identify and to  negotiate suitable acquisitions, to obtain financing for them on satisfactory terms, or otherwise to complete  acquisitions.  In addition, existing and future competitors, and private equity firms, increasingly compete with us for  acquisitions, which can increase prices and reduce the number of suitable opportunities; the acquisitions they make  can also adversely impact our market position.", "We seek acquisition opportunities that complement and expand our operations.  However, substantial costs, delays,  or other difficulties related to integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business or financial results.  For  example, we could face significant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating information systems, personnel,  and operations, and implementing procedures and controls in a timely and efficient manner.", "An interruption of operations at our headquarters or distribution centers, or in our means of transporting  product, could adversely impact our business.  Our business depends on maintaining operating activity at our  headquarters and distribution centers, and being able to receive and deliver product in a timely manner.  A serious,  prolonged interruption due to power or telecommunications outage, security incident, terrorist attack, public health  emergency, earthquake, extreme weather events, other natural disasters, fire, flood, transportation disruption, or  other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.", "Our business depends on our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain qualified employees.  Our  success depends on hiring, developing, motivating, and retaining key employees, including executive, managerial,  sales, professional, and other personnel.  We may have difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel.  In  addition, we may have difficulty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against  us.  With respect to sales and customer service positions in particular, we greatly benefit from having employees who  are familiar with the products and services we sell, and their applications, as well as with our customer and supplier", "relationships.  The loss of key employees or our failure to attract and retain other qualified workers could disrupt or  adversely affect our business.  In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased competition  for employees, shortages of qualified workers, higher employee turnover (including through retirement as the  workforce ages), or increased employee compensation or benefit costs.", "We believe having a local presence is important to serving our customers, so we maintain service centers and other  operations in local markets throughout the countries in which we operate.  At June 30, 2021, we owned real  properties at 115 locations and leased 418 locations.  Certain properties house more than one operation.", "The properties in Baldwinsville, Newark, Midland, and Stafford are used in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Fontana and Longview properties are used in both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and the Fluid  Power & Flow Control segment.  The remaining properties are used in the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.", "We consider our properties generally sufficient to meet our requirements for office space and inventory stocking.", "When opening new operations, we have tended to lease rather than purchase real property.  We do not consider  any service center, distribution center, or shop property to be material, because we believe that, if it becomes  necessary or desirable to relocate an operation, other suitable property could be found.", "In addition to operating locations, we own or lease certain properties which in the aggregate are not material and  are either for sale, lease, or sublease to third parties due to a relocation or closing.  We also may lease or sublease to  others unused portions of buildings.", "Fiscal 2021 ended on a positive note as underlying demand continued to strengthen across both segments during  the fourth quarter reflecting sustained recovery in our core end-markets and momentum across our internal growth  initiatives.", "We are managing inflation well and controlling costs, while benefiting from productivity enhancements.  Fiscal 2022 is off to a positive start with organic sales through early August up by a high-teens percent over the prior  year and customer indications signaling sustained demand momentum.", "Applied monitors several economic indices that have been key indicators for industrial economic activity in the United  States.  These include the Industrial Production (IP) and Manufacturing Capacity Utilization (MCU) indices published  by the Federal Reserve Board and the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) published by the Institute for Supply  Management (ISM).  Historically, our performance correlates well with the MCU, which measures productivity and  calculates a ratio of actual manufacturing output versus potential full capacity output.  When manufacturing plants  are running at a high rate of capacity, they tend to wear out machinery and require replacement parts.", "We evaluate the recoverability of our slow-moving and inactive inventories at least quarterly.  We estimate the  recoverable cost of such inventory by product type while considering factors such as its age, historic and current  demand trends, the physical condition of the inventory, as well as assumptions regarding future demand.  Our ability  to recover our cost for slow moving or obsolete inventory can be affected by such factors as general market  conditions, future customer demand and relationships with suppliers.  A significant portion of the products we hold  in inventory have long shelf lives and are not highly susceptible to obsolescence.", "Important risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to the operations levels of our  customers and the economic factors that affect them; risks relating to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic;  changes in the prices for products and services relative to the cost of providing them; reduction in supplier inventory  purchase incentives; loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, changes in supplier distribution  programs, inability of suppliers to perform, and transportation disruptions; the cost of products and energy and  other operating costs; changes in customer preferences for products and services of the nature and brands sold by  us; changes in customer procurement policies and practices; competitive pressures; our reliance on information  systems and risks relating to their proper functioning, the security of those systems, and the data stored in or  transmitted through them; the impact of economic conditions on the collectability of trade receivables; reduced  demand for our products in targeted markets due to reasons including consolidation in customer industries; our  ability to retain and attract qualified sales and customer service personnel and other skilled executives, managers and  professionals; our ability to identify and complete acquisitions, integrate them effectively, and realize their  anticipated benefits; the variability, timing and nature of new business opportunities including acquisitions, alliances,  customer relationships, and supplier authorizations; the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in connection  with acquisitions; our ability to access capital markets as needed on reasonable terms; disruption of operations at our  headquarters or distribution centers; risks and uncertainties associated with our foreign operations, including volatile  economic conditions, political instability, cultural and legal differences, and currency exchange fluctuations; the  potential for goodwill and intangible asset impairment; changes in accounting policies and practices; our ability to  maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; organizational changes within the Company; risks related  to legal proceedings to which we are a party; potentially adverse government regulation, legislation, or policies, both  enacted and under consideration, including with respect to federal tax policy, international trade, data privacy and  security, and government contracting; and the occurrence of extraordinary events (including prolonged labor  disputes, power outages, telecommunication outages, terrorist acts, public health emergency, earthquakes, extreme  weather events, other natural disasters, fires, floods, and accidents).  Other factors and unanticipated events could  also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.", "Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the \u201cCompany\u201d or \u201cApplied\u201d) is a leading value-added  distributor and technical solutions provider of industrial motion, fluid power, flow control, automation technologies,  and related maintenance supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve  MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all  industrial markets through our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  Although  the Company does not generally manufacture the products it sells, it does assemble and repair certain products and  systems.", "Our leading brands, specialized  services, and comprehensive knowledge serve MRO and OEM end users in virtually all industrial markets through  our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.", "About the Cover: As the leading technical products,  services and solutions provider to industrial markets, Applied  continually strives to enhance customer partnerships \u2013 even  in challenging times.", "In recognition of our excellent support  and great customer service, our Chula Vista, CA service  center team received a Supplier Recognition Award for going  above and beyond on a consistent basis.", "Across the organization, we can look back at  the solid progress we have made and be proud of how well we served and supported our  customers, critical industrial infrastructure, and our fellow associates.", "Our operational procedures  and protocols \u2013 aligned with the CDC, OSHA and other leading health organizations \u2013 proved  beneficial in our resolve.  During the initial weeks of the COVID-19 pandemic, I stated my belief that Applied\u00ae has never been in a better position to manage  through the current environment and exit the pandemic-driven downturn even stronger.", "This is a direct reflection of the tremendous team we have across the organization  and highlights the strong potential that lies ahead.", "As fiscal 2021 progressed, we saw order momentum intensify as customers increased production activity across their facilities and  turned to us for critical MRO support.", "Our local presence, and expanding technical and service capabilities proved impactful as  customers began to reaccelerate growth investments and solidify supply chains.", "In addition, we benefited from our strategic focus  to expand our service offerings and end-market mix.", "Of special mention is the recent work of our flow control teams and their  involvement in providing critical products and solutions for the COVID-19 vaccine production.", "What we have gained and accomplished since the onset of the pandemic is significant  and sets the stage for our fiscal 2022 and years to come.", "Looking forward, we have many exciting near-term opportunities to  productively and effectively impact our customers as the leading technical products, services and solutions provider to industrial  markets.", "We join many others in being hopeful and excited about the prospects for our health, well-being and return to familiar activity \u2013  personally and professionally.", "Still, as we have experienced since its onset, the COVID journey is a marathon, not a sprint, and we  remain firm on providing a healthy and safe work environment at Applied.", "Ensuring we satisfy our customers\u2019 needs while also  adhering to associate safety remains our primary objective.", "2 While we are still in the early innings of fully capitalizing on our potential, we are clearly gaining momentum, with related  business wins increasing and our broader teams actively engaged.", "Having launched in September 2020, we have seen the We Are Applied SM campaign take hold \u2013 internally and externally \u2013  showcasing our vast experience, innovative technologies and multi-channel initiatives that work together to make us THE  supplier of choice for technical MRO, OE, and return-enhancing solutions across critical industrial infrastructure.", "It also serves  as a timely prelude to our approaching 100-year anniversary, demonstrating our strong foundation and the many chapters  yet to be written on the successful story of Applied. \u201cNew opportunities\u201d and \u201cexpanding growth potential\u201d are words that accurately describe Applied and continue to  inspire our associates.", "This view reflects the deep belief in our value proposition and technical industry positon, as well as  a long-standing commitment to operational excellence.", "These attributes have strengthened our competitive moat, while  expanding our addressable market in recent years \u2013 providing an engaging path for faster growth and margin expansion.  We have the most comprehensive portfolio and technical service capabilities, premier engineered solution expertise, and  greatest track record of consistency and commitment across our core industrial product categories.", "We are applying a  similar focus into new emerging industrial solutions as we adapt and position the Company for years to come.", "Our strong  local presence and ongoing talent investment provide further support to this foundation.", "Across Applied, we are eager to demonstrate our full value-add as we continue to leverage our differentiated industry  position.", "From our comprehensive MRO capabilities to our technical products and engineered solutions, we have multiple  channels to accelerate growth.", "Central to this effort is fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded fluid power,  flow control, automation, consumables, and e-business capabilities.", "We can see evidence of this cross-selling potential  emerging throughout the Company, supported by our We Are Applied SM business positioning and marketing campaign.", "Following several acquisitions over the past two years and ongoing execution of our strategic growth initiatives, we have  established Applied as a leading distributor and solutions provider of advanced factory automation technologies focused  on machine vision, robotics, motion control, and digital networking.", "Our expanding automation offering aligns with and  complements related trends across our legacy operations.", "This includes fluid power where our industry-leading capabilities  around electronic integration, software coding, pneumatics automation, and smart technology applications are driving  new growth opportunities as customers increasingly focus on machine advancements and data analytics.", "In addition, we  continue to expand our industrial IoT offering throughout our Service Center network to address our customers\u2019 Factory of  the Future initiatives.", "We are encouraged by our progress in identifying and developing opportunities aimed at connecting our automation and  smart technology capabilities across varied vertical markets, such as Semiconductors & Electronics, Medical & Life Science,  Food Processing, Logistics, and Data Centers.", "Our growing position across these emerging industrial technologies together  with our holistic design, assembly, and integration solutions are driving greater recognition across our served industries.  We aim to expand this position in coming years, presenting a significant growth opportunity as technology continues to  converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end markets.", "Collectively, we recognize our business requirements and social responsibility in serving all stakeholders.", "Our updated  Corporate Social Responsibility report highlights this ongoing progress and demonstrated commitment to ensuring that  Applied conducts business fairly, honestly and ethically, in every location where we do business.", "Clearly, we have relevant profitable growth opportunities to help us execute our strategic plan elements of Core Growth;  Products and Services Expansion; Automation, Fluid Power, and Flow Control Leadership; Operational Excellence; and  Acquisitions.", "We are fully prepared to leverage our capabilities and build upon our momentum\u2026 serving customers and  generating benefits for associates, suppliers, communities and shareholders.", "On behalf of all of Applied, we thank you not only for your continued trust in Applied, but for recognizing our significant  value and potential.", "We are proud of our accomplishments to date, and we continue to believe our best days are ahead\u2026   Working Together, Winning Together!", "As we enter fiscal 2022 \u2013 and our 99th year of doing business \u2013 the resilient nature of Applied is apparent through  individual efforts, teamwork, cross-functional collaboration, and solid financial performance.", "As markets stabilize  and continue to demonstrate sequential growth, we will take full advantage of the fundamental drivers and strategic  initiatives that will benefit our business throughout our long-range strategy horizon\u2026 propelling us to our 100-year  anniversary in 2023 and beyond!", "We are a leading distributor and solutions provider of industrial motion, power, control, and automation  technologies.  Through our comprehensive network of approximately 5,900 employee associates and 568 facilities  including service center, fluid power, flow control, and automation operations, as well as repair shops and  distribution centers, we offer a selection of more than 7.5 million stock keeping units with a focus on industrial  bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, specialty flow control, and advanced  factory automation solutions.  We market our products with a set of service solutions including inventory  management, engineering, design, assembly, repair, and systems integration, as well as customized mechanical,  fabricated rubber, and shop services.  Our customers use our products and services for both MRO (maintenance,  repair, and operating) and OEM (original equipment manufacturing) applications across a variety of end markets  primarily in North America, as well as Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.  Headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio,  Applied and its predecessor companies have engaged in business since 1923.", "Our internet address is www.applied.com.  The following documents are available free of charge via hyperlink from  the investor relations area of our website:", "VALUE PROPOSITION We serve a segment of the industrial market that requires technical expertise and service given that our products and  solutions are directly tied to companies\u2019 production and efficiency initiatives.  As such, we believe we are integral to  our customers\u2019 supply chains considering the critical nature and direct exposure our solutions have on our customers\u2019  core production equipment and plant capabilities.  While we compete with other distributors and service providers  offering products and solutions addressing this area of the industrial supply chain, we believe our industry position  and value proposition benefits from relative advantages tied to the following key attributes:", "We focus on helping customers minimize their production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce  overall procurement and maintenance costs, as well as optimize the efficiency and safety of their facilities and  equipment.  A primary focus for our service center network is responding to a critical \u201cbreak-fix\u201d situation, which  requires knowledge of a customer\u2019s facility, localized inventory, timely delivery capabilities, service execution, and  accountability.  In addition, our fluid power, flow control, and automation operations design, engineer, and  integrate solutions focused on making a customer\u2019s operations and equipment more productive, cost-efficient, and", "automated.  We believe our products and solutions are increasingly critical within the industrial supply chain given an  aging and tighter customer labor force, more sophisticated production equipment and processes, a greater focus on  plant floor optimization, and compliance and regulatory requirements.", "INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION We primarily compete within North America which we believe offers significant growth potential given our industry  position, established distribution and sales network, market fragmentation, and customer technical requirements, as  well as opportunities tied to automation and smart technologies.  Growth within our industry is influenced by  broader industrial production and capacity utilization, as well as inflation, labor dynamics, capital spending,  geopolitical events, factory optimization initiatives, changes in industrial equipment technologies, and supply chain  requirements.", "Our principal competitors are specialist and general line distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid  power components and systems, flow control solutions, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, and  automation solutions, and to a lesser extent providers of tools, safety products, and other industrial and  maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational operations.  We also  compete with original equipment manufacturers and integrators.  The identity and number of our competitors vary  throughout the geographic, industry, and product markets we serve.", "STRATEGIC GROWTH AND OPERATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES \u2022 Capture market share across our core service center network.  Our network of service centers located close to industrial companies allows us to respond quickly and effectively to critical MRO situations involving direct production infrastructure and industrial equipment.  We believe more sophisticated industrial production processes and customer labor constraints, as well as increased industrial capacity and manufacturing activity across North America could drive greater demand for our products and services.  We continue to deploy initiatives to further enhance our capabilities across our service center network and gain market share.  These include investments in analytics, strategic account penetration, sales process optimization, talent development, and digital channel solutions, as well as fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded product and service platform across fluid power, flow control, automation, and consumables solutions.", "\u2022 Extend our leading fluid power and flow control position as demand for comprehensive solutions grows.  We provide innovative fluid power and flow control solutions including systems design and engineering, electronic control integration, software programming, valve actuation, compliance consulting, fabrication and assembly, and dedicated service and repair.  Demand for these solutions is increasing across a variety of industrial, off-highway mobile, technology, and process related applications given a greater focus on power consumption, plant efficiency and automation, emissions control, electrification, remote monitoring, advancements in machining, regulatory and compliance standards, and data analytics.  We believe our service and engineering capabilities, shop network, and supplier relationships, combined with our software coding and smart technology application knowledge, are key competitive advantages.  We see opportunities to leverage these advantages across new and underserved geographies, as well as through new commercial solutions that could drive a greater share gain of this market opportunity in coming years.", "We are expanding our position and capabilities focused on advanced factory automation and smart technologies that optimize and connect customers\u2019 industrial supply chains.  We believe we have a favorable position to capture this addressable market given our technical product focus, service capabilities, embedded customer relationships and knowledge across direct production infrastructure and equipment, and existing supplier relationships.  Following several business acquisitions made since fiscal 2020, we now offer products and solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and distribution of machine vision, robotic technologies, and motion control.  Our emerging growth across these areas is diversifying our end-market exposure with greater penetration into technology, life sciences, logistics, and food and beverage industries.", "We expect to continue to expand our automation footprint and capabilities in coming years, as well as pursue opportunities tied to the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT).  We believe this market potential could be meaningful as technology continues to converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end-markets.", "\u2022 Execute ongoing operational initiatives supporting margin profile.  We have a number of initiatives focused on driving operational improvements throughout the organization.  Systems investments in recent years including common ERP platforms are supporting opportunities in leveraging shared services, refining our sales management process, and standardizing pricing and sourcing functions, while we continue to optimize our shop and distribution network and analytics.  We also remain focused on achieving margin synergies across our operations following expansion into flow control and automation.  This includes enhanced pricing functions, leveraging vendor procurement, freight savings, and refined cost management.  Combined with", "OPERATIONS Our distribution and sales network consists of approximately 445 locations in our Service Center Distribution  segment and 123 locations in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  This includes service centers, distribution  centers, and facilities tied to our fluid power, flow control, and automation operations.  Our service centers resemble  local inventory hubs located in close proximity to our customers and focused primarily on MRO related fulfillment  and service needs.  Our fluid power, flow control, and automation locations support technical and shop-oriented  services integral to the more specialized and integrated nature of the products and solutions they provide.  Other  operations and channels we market through include inventory management services for indirect consumable  supplies and digital solutions including our Applied.com website, electronic data interchange (EDI) and other  electronic interfaces with customers' technology platforms and plant maintenance systems.", "Our distribution centers provide daily service to our service centers, helping replenish inventories and shipping  products directly to customers where appropriate.  An efficient supply chain and timely delivery of our products is  vital to our value proposition particularly when customers require products for emergency repairs.  We utilize  dedicated third-party transportation providers, our own delivery vehicles, as well as surface and air common carrier  and courier services.  Customers may also pick up items at our service centers.  We maintain product inventory levels  at each service center tailored to the local market.  These inventories consist of standard items as well as other items  specific to local customer demand.", "Our operations are primarily based in the U.S. where 86% of our fiscal 2021 sales were generated.  We also have  international operations, the largest of which is in Canada (8% of fiscal 2021 sales) with the balance (6% of fiscal  2021 sales) in Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.", "SUPPLIERS We are a leading distributor of products including bearings, power transmission products, engineered fluid power  components and systems, specialty flow control solutions, advanced automation products, industrial rubber  products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.", "These products are generally supplied to us by manufacturers whom we serve as a non-exclusive distributor.  The  suppliers also may provide us product training, as well as sales and marketing support.  Authorizations to represent  particular suppliers and product lines vary by geographic region, particularly for our fluid power, flow control, and  automation businesses.  We believe our supplier relationships are generally good, and many have existed for  decades.  The disruption of relationships with certain suppliers, or the disruption of their operations, could adversely  affect our business.", "Our product suppliers typically confine their direct sales activities to large-volume transactions, mainly with large  original equipment manufacturers.  The suppliers generally do not sell maintenance and repair products directly to  the customer, but instead refer the customer to us or another distributor.", "MARKETS  We purchase from thousands of product manufacturers and resell the products to thousands of customers in a wide  variety of industries, including agriculture and food processing, cement, chemicals and petrochemicals, fabricated  metals, forest products, industrial machinery and equipment, life sciences, mining, oil and gas, primary metals,  technology, transportation, and utilities, as well as to government entities.  Customers range from very large  businesses, with which we may have multiple-location relationships, to very small ones.  We are not significantly  dependent on a single customer or group of customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on  our business as a whole, and no single customer accounts for more than 4% of our fiscal 2021 sales.", "We expect to pursue additional acquisitions aligned with our growth strategy and long-term financial targets.", "We view acquisitions as an important growth consideration given high fragmentation, greater operational and technical requirements, and supplier authorizations within the markets we serve.  We believe our sourcing strategy, cash generation capabilities, industry relationships, and operational discipline are key to our acquisition success.  In addition, dedicated corporate teams and related support functions provide strategic oversight of critical work streams and integration execution, which we believe enhances our ability to capture synergistic value.  Over the near to intermediate-term, our acquisition priorities are focused on continuing to expand our current offerings, while further enhancing our technical differentiation and value-added service capabilities.", "SERVICES We believe part of our success, differentiation, and competitive advantage is attributable to the comprehensive set of  services and solutions we provide, which we view as critical given the technical nature and application of our core  product offering of motion, power, control, and automation technologies.  The foundation of our service capabilities  lies with our technically oriented associate team, which includes engineers, industry segment specialists, mechanics,  technicians, fluid power specialists, as well as our systems, shop network, and supplier relationships.  We believe  knowledge and service capabilities relating to our core product offering are increasingly needed across our customer  base given skilled labor constraints within their operations, maintenance requirements, and more sophisticated plant  equipment and processes.  Our services and solutions help customers minimize production downtime, improve  machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs.  By providing high levels of service,  product and industry expertise, and technical support, while at the same time offering product breadth and  competitive pricing, we believe we develop stronger, longer-lasting, and more profitable customer relationships.    See the Reportable Segments section below for more detail on the various service solutions we provide to customers.", "REPORTABLE SEGMENTS We report results of operations in two segments: 1) Service Center Based Distribution, and 2) Fluid Power & Flow  Control.  In fiscal 2021, our Service Center Based Distribution segment represented 68% of our total sales, while our  Fluid Power & Flow Control segment represented 32% of our total sales.", "Service Center Based Distribution.  Our Service Center Based Distribution segment includes our legacy MRO  distribution operations across North America, Australia, and New Zealand.  This business operates through local  service centers and distribution centers with a focus on providing products and services addressing the maintenance  and repair of motion control infrastructure and production equipment.  Products primarily include industrial  bearings, motors, belting, drives, couplings, pumps, linear motion products, hydraulic and pneumatic components,  filtration supplies, and hoses, as well as other related supplies for general operational needs of customers\u2019 machinery  and equipment.", "Fluid Power & Flow Control.  Our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment includes our operations that specialize in  distributing, engineering, designing, integrating, and repairing hydraulic and pneumatic fluid power technologies,  and engineered flow control products and services.  We believe we are the largest distributor and solutions provider  of fluid power and industrial flow control products and solutions in the U.S.  The segment also includes our  operations that focus on advanced automation solutions, including machine vision, robotics, motion control, and  smart technologies.", "Our specialty flow control operations provide highly engineered process flow control products, solutions, and  services.  Products include pumps, valves, fittings, hoses, process instrumentation, actuators, and filtration supplies  which are used to control the flow of liquids and gases in mission-critical industrial applications.  Our flow control  products and services are focused on MRO related applications; OEMs; and engineering, procurement, and  construction (EPC) firms across a variety of industries including chemicals, steel, power, oil and gas, pulp and paper,  life sciences, pharmaceuticals, food and beverage, and general industrials.  Similar to our fluid power operations, our  flow control offering includes technical service capabilities such as flow control systems integration, repair services,  valve actuation, process instrumentation, pipe and hose fabrication, and compliance consulting.", "Our advanced automation operations provide solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and  distribution of machine vision, collaborative robots, mobile robots, RFID, industrial networking, and machine learning  technologies for OEMs, machine builders, integrators, and other industrial and technology end users.  Products and  solutions are marketed across a variety of industries including technology, medical, life sciences, logistics, consumer,  and general industrial.  Our automation business helps customers develop, produce, and integrate machine and  facility automation solutions using comprehensive technology and application knowledge.  A core element of our  strategy and value proposition within automation is our value-added and engineered solution capabilities, enabling  us to provide in-depth consultative, design, engineering, assembly, testing, and support services for various customer  requirements.", "HUMAN CAPITAL We attribute our business success to talented, dedicated employee associates who live our Core Values of integrity,  respect, customer focus, commitment to excellence, accountability, innovation, continuous improvement, and  teamwork.", "Associate Development.  We strive to attract, retain, and develop a diverse group of high-performing associates,  empowering them to achieve their potential and providing them opportunities to test their skills, increase their  responsibilities, and advance their careers.  Applied\u2019s commitment to associate development is reflected in our  investments in a learning management system (offering a wide array of internal facilitated training courses, supplier  product training, and other third-party courses), a modern social learning platform, and in-person training through  which associates can continually expand their knowledge base and position themselves to achieve their professional  goals.", "Diversity and Inclusion.  We are committed to a diverse and inclusive workplace that is respectful to all associates  and believe this serves as a cornerstone for a strong company.  We employ multiple initiatives to recruit, train, and  advance diverse associates.  In the area of recruitment, for example, we engage in on-campus events and targeted  recruitment strategies that increase our exposure to diverse populations in order to promote enhanced diversity in  our hiring.", "Health and Safety.  Applied is also committed to the safety and well-being of our associates.", "From the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we focused on protecting our associates\u2019 health and safety, while  ensuring our continued capability to serve our customers.  As a provider of critical parts, services, and solutions to  essential industries, Applied remained open for business.  We implemented significant changes to ensure a safe  operating environment for our associates and to protect our customers and communities, including remote work as  feasible, social distancing protocols, heightened sanitation procedures, and masking policies.  BACKLOG AND SEASONALITY  Backlog orders are not material to our business as a whole, although they are a more important factor for our fluid  power, flow control, and automation businesses.  Our business has exhibited minor seasonality.  In particular, sales  per day during the first half of our fiscal year have historically been slightly lower than the second half due, in part,  to the impact of customer plant shutdowns, summer vacations and holidays.", "PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES, AND LICENSES  Customer recognition of our service marks and trade names, including Applied Industrial Technologies\u00ae, Applied\u00ae,  and AIT\u00ae, is an important contributing factor to our sales.  Patents and licenses are not of material importance to  our business.", "RAW MATERIALS AND GENERAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS   Our operations are dependent on general industrial and economic conditions.  We would be adversely affected by  the unavailability of raw materials to our suppliers, prolonged labor disputes experienced by suppliers or customers,  or by events or conditions that have an adverse effect on industrial activity generally in the markets we serve or on  key customer industries.", "WORKING CAPITAL Our working capital position is discussed in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.", "In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could  materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the  only risks facing the Company.  Certain risks are identified below in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by  reference.", "Our business depends heavily on the operating levels of our customers and the factors that affect them,  including general economic conditions.  The markets for our products and services are subject to conditions or  events that affect demand for goods and materials that our customers produce.  Consequently, demand for our  products and services has been and will continue to be influenced by most of the same factors that affect demand  for and production of customers' goods and materials.", "When customers or prospective customers reduce production levels because of lower demand, increased supply,  higher costs, tight credit conditions, unfavorable currency exchange rates, adverse trade policies, foreign  competition, other competitive disadvantage, offshoring of production, or other reasons, their need for our products  and services diminishes.  Selling prices and terms of sale come under pressure, adversely affecting the profitability  and the durability of customer relationships, and credit losses may increase.  Inventory management becomes more  difficult in times of economic uncertainty.  Volatile economic and credit conditions also make it more difficult for us,  as well as our customers and suppliers, to forecast and plan future business activities.", "The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto continue to impact  our results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are uncertain  and cannot be predicted.  The COVID-19 pandemic created significant volatility, uncertainty, and economic  disruption.  The effects of the pandemic resulted in lost or delayed sales to us, and we experienced business  disruptions as we modified our business practices (including travel, work locations, and cancellation of physical  participation in meetings).  While the pandemic\u2019s impact on social and economic conditions has subsided, the extent  to which it will continue to impact our results of operations and financial condition will depend on evolving factors  that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the following: the duration, spread, and severity of the  pandemic, including due to virus variants, in the countries in which we operate; responsive measures taken by  governmental authorities, businesses, and individuals; the effect on our customers and their demand for our  products and services; the effect on our suppliers and disruptions to the global supply chain; our ability to sell and  provide our products and services and otherwise operate effectively, including as a result of travel restrictions and  associates working from home; disruptions to our operations resulting from associate illness; restrictions or  disruptions to, or reduced availability of, transportation; customers\u2019 ability to pay for our services and products;  closures of our facilities or those of our customers or suppliers; the impact of reduced customer demand on  purchasing incentives we earn from suppliers; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating  conditions can resume.  In addition, the pandemic\u2019s impact on the economy could affect the proper functioning of  financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates, product and energy costs, and interest rates.  The  pandemic\u2019s effects may also amplify the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,  and may continue to materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or  stock price.", "Consolidation in our customers' and suppliers' industries could adversely affect our business and financial  results.  Consolidation continues among our product suppliers and customers.  As customer industries consolidate  or customers otherwise aggregate their purchasing power, a greater proportion of our sales could be derived from  large volume contracts, which could adversely impact margins.  Consolidation among customers can produce  changes in their purchasing strategies, potentially shifting blocks of business among competing distributors and  contributing to volatility in our sales and pressure on prices.  Similarly, continued consolidation among suppliers  could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable pricing and other commercial terms for our inventory purchases.   There can be no assurance we will be able to take advantage of consolidation trends.", "An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings.  We operate in a highly competitive industry.  The  industry remains fragmented, but is consolidating.  Our principal competitors are specialist and general line  distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, flow control solutions,  automation technologies, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, oilfield  supplies, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and  multinational operations, and can include catalog and e-commerce companies.  Competition is largely focused in the  local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities, and price.  Existing competitors have, and future competitors may have, greater financial or other resources than we do,  broader or more appealing product or service offerings, greater market presence, stronger relationships with key  suppliers or customers, or better name recognition.  If existing or future competitors seek to gain or to retain market  share by aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, or otherwise through competitive advantage, our sales and  profitability could be adversely affected.  Our success will also be affected by our ability to continue to provide  competitive offerings as customer preferences or demands evolve, for example with respect to product and service  types, brands, quality, or prices.  Technological evolution or other factors can render product and service offerings  obsolete, potentially impairing our competitive position and our inventory values.", "Our operations outside the United States increase our exposure to global economic and political  conditions and currency exchange volatility.  Foreign operations contributed 14% of our sales in 2021.  This  presence outside the U.S. increases risks associated with exposure to more volatile economic conditions, political  instability, cultural and legal differences in conducting business (including corrupt practices), economic and trade  policy actions, and currency exchange fluctuations.", "Our business could be adversely affected if we do not successfully execute our strategies to grow sales and  earnings.  We have numerous strategies and initiatives to grow sales, leveraging the breadth of our product  offering, supplier relationships, and value-added technical capabilities to differentiate us and improve our", "competitive position.  We also continually seek to enhance gross margins, manage costs, and otherwise improve  earnings.  Many of our activities target improvements to the consistency of our operating practices across our  hundreds of locations.  If we do not implement these initiatives effectively, or if for other reasons they are  unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected.", "Loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, or changes in distribution programs could  adversely affect our sales and earnings.  Our business depends on maintaining an immediately available supply of  various products to meet customer demand.  Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding,  but are terminable by either party.  The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability  of their products, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and have a material adverse effect on our business.  Supply interruptions could arise from raw materials shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity or utilization to  meet demand, financial problems or insolvency, trade issues, labor disputes, public health emergencies, weather  conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control.", "Changes in customer or product mix and downward pressure on sales prices could cause our gross profit  percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Because we serve thousands of customers in many end markets, and offer  millions of products, with varying profitability levels, changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross  profit percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Downward pressure on sales prices could also cause our gross profit  percentage to fluctuate or decline.  We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of deflation,  pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition.", "Our ability to transact business is highly reliant on information systems.  A disruption or security breach  could materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operation.  We depend on information  systems to, among other things, process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections,  purchase products, manage accounts payable processes, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost- effective operations, provide superior service to customers, conduct business communications, and compile financial  results.  A serious, prolonged disruption of our information systems, due to man-made or natural causes, including  power or telecommunications outage, or breach in security, could materially impair fundamental business processes  and increase expenses, decrease sales, or otherwise reduce earnings.", "Because of our reliance on information systems, we are vulnerable to the growing threat of damage or intrusion  from computer viruses or other cyber-attacks, including ransomware and business e-mail compromise, on our  systems.  Despite precautions taken to prevent or mitigate the risks of such incidents, breaches of our systems could  not only cause business disruption, but could also result in the theft of funds, the theft, loss, or disclosure of", "Acquisitions are a key component of our anticipated growth.  We may not be able to identify or to  complete future acquisitions, to integrate them effectively into our operations, or to realize their  anticipated benefits.  Many industries we serve are mature.  As a result, acquisitions of businesses have been  important to our growth.  While we wish to continue to acquire businesses, we may not be able to identify and to  negotiate suitable acquisitions, to obtain financing for them on satisfactory terms, or otherwise to complete  acquisitions.  In addition, existing and future competitors, and private equity firms, increasingly compete with us for  acquisitions, which can increase prices and reduce the number of suitable opportunities; the acquisitions they make  can also adversely impact our market position.", "We seek acquisition opportunities that complement and expand our operations.  However, substantial costs, delays,  or other difficulties related to integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business or financial results.  For  example, we could face significant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating information systems, personnel,  and operations, and implementing procedures and controls in a timely and efficient manner.", "An interruption of operations at our headquarters or distribution centers, or in our means of transporting  product, could adversely impact our business.  Our business depends on maintaining operating activity at our  headquarters and distribution centers, and being able to receive and deliver product in a timely manner.  A serious,  prolonged interruption due to power or telecommunications outage, security incident, terrorist attack, public health  emergency, earthquake, extreme weather events, other natural disasters, fire, flood, transportation disruption, or  other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.", "Our business depends on our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain qualified employees.  Our  success depends on hiring, developing, motivating, and retaining key employees, including executive, managerial,  sales, professional, and other personnel.  We may have difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel.  In  addition, we may have difficulty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against  us.  With respect to sales and customer service positions in particular, we greatly benefit from having employees who  are familiar with the products and services we sell, and their applications, as well as with our customer and supplier", "relationships.  The loss of key employees or our failure to attract and retain other qualified workers could disrupt or  adversely affect our business.  In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased competition  for employees, shortages of qualified workers, higher employee turnover (including through retirement as the  workforce ages), or increased employee compensation or benefit costs.", "We believe having a local presence is important to serving our customers, so we maintain service centers and other  operations in local markets throughout the countries in which we operate.  At June 30, 2021, we owned real  properties at 115 locations and leased 418 locations.  Certain properties house more than one operation.", "The properties in Baldwinsville, Newark, Midland, and Stafford are used in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Fontana and Longview properties are used in both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and the Fluid  Power & Flow Control segment.  The remaining properties are used in the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.", "We consider our properties generally sufficient to meet our requirements for office space and inventory stocking.", "When opening new operations, we have tended to lease rather than purchase real property.  We do not consider  any service center, distribution center, or shop property to be material, because we believe that, if it becomes  necessary or desirable to relocate an operation, other suitable property could be found.", "In addition to operating locations, we own or lease certain properties which in the aggregate are not material and  are either for sale, lease, or sublease to third parties due to a relocation or closing.  We also may lease or sublease to  others unused portions of buildings.", "Fiscal 2021 ended on a positive note as underlying demand continued to strengthen across both segments during  the fourth quarter reflecting sustained recovery in our core end-markets and momentum across our internal growth  initiatives.", "We are managing inflation well and controlling costs, while benefiting from productivity enhancements.  Fiscal 2022 is off to a positive start with organic sales through early August up by a high-teens percent over the prior  year and customer indications signaling sustained demand momentum.", "Applied monitors several economic indices that have been key indicators for industrial economic activity in the United  States.  These include the Industrial Production (IP) and Manufacturing Capacity Utilization (MCU) indices published  by the Federal Reserve Board and the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) published by the Institute for Supply  Management (ISM).  Historically, our performance correlates well with the MCU, which measures productivity and  calculates a ratio of actual manufacturing output versus potential full capacity output.  When manufacturing plants  are running at a high rate of capacity, they tend to wear out machinery and require replacement parts.", "We evaluate the recoverability of our slow-moving and inactive inventories at least quarterly.  We estimate the  recoverable cost of such inventory by product type while considering factors such as its age, historic and current  demand trends, the physical condition of the inventory, as well as assumptions regarding future demand.  Our ability  to recover our cost for slow moving or obsolete inventory can be affected by such factors as general market  conditions, future customer demand and relationships with suppliers.  A significant portion of the products we hold  in inventory have long shelf lives and are not highly susceptible to obsolescence.", "Important risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to the operations levels of our  customers and the economic factors that affect them; risks relating to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic;  changes in the prices for products and services relative to the cost of providing them; reduction in supplier inventory  purchase incentives; loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, changes in supplier distribution  programs, inability of suppliers to perform, and transportation disruptions; the cost of products and energy and  other operating costs; changes in customer preferences for products and services of the nature and brands sold by  us; changes in customer procurement policies and practices; competitive pressures; our reliance on information  systems and risks relating to their proper functioning, the security of those systems, and the data stored in or  transmitted through them; the impact of economic conditions on the collectability of trade receivables; reduced  demand for our products in targeted markets due to reasons including consolidation in customer industries; our  ability to retain and attract qualified sales and customer service personnel and other skilled executives, managers and  professionals; our ability to identify and complete acquisitions, integrate them effectively, and realize their  anticipated benefits; the variability, timing and nature of new business opportunities including acquisitions, alliances,  customer relationships, and supplier authorizations; the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in connection  with acquisitions; our ability to access capital markets as needed on reasonable terms; disruption of operations at our  headquarters or distribution centers; risks and uncertainties associated with our foreign operations, including volatile  economic conditions, political instability, cultural and legal differences, and currency exchange fluctuations; the  potential for goodwill and intangible asset impairment; changes in accounting policies and practices; our ability to  maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; organizational changes within the Company; risks related  to legal proceedings to which we are a party; potentially adverse government regulation, legislation, or policies, both  enacted and under consideration, including with respect to federal tax policy, international trade, data privacy and  security, and government contracting; and the occurrence of extraordinary events (including prolonged labor  disputes, power outages, telecommunication outages, terrorist acts, public health emergency, earthquakes, extreme  weather events, other natural disasters, fires, floods, and accidents).  Other factors and unanticipated events could  also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.", "Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the \u201cCompany\u201d or \u201cApplied\u201d) is a leading value-added  distributor and technical solutions provider of industrial motion, fluid power, flow control, automation technologies,  and related maintenance supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve  MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all  industrial markets through our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  Although  the Company does not generally manufacture the products it sells, it does assemble and repair certain products and  systems.", "Our leading brands, specialized  services, and comprehensive knowledge serve MRO and OEM end users in virtually all industrial markets through  our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.", "About the Cover: As the leading technical products,  services and solutions provider to industrial markets, Applied  continually strives to enhance customer partnerships \u2013 even  in challenging times.", "In recognition of our excellent support  and great customer service, our Chula Vista, CA service  center team received a Supplier Recognition Award for going  above and beyond on a consistent basis.", "Across the organization, we can look back at  the solid progress we have made and be proud of how well we served and supported our  customers, critical industrial infrastructure, and our fellow associates.", "Our operational procedures  and protocols \u2013 aligned with the CDC, OSHA and other leading health organizations \u2013 proved  beneficial in our resolve.  During the initial weeks of the COVID-19 pandemic, I stated my belief that Applied\u00ae has never been in a better position to manage  through the current environment and exit the pandemic-driven downturn even stronger.", "This is a direct reflection of the tremendous team we have across the organization  and highlights the strong potential that lies ahead.", "As fiscal 2021 progressed, we saw order momentum intensify as customers increased production activity across their facilities and  turned to us for critical MRO support.", "Our local presence, and expanding technical and service capabilities proved impactful as  customers began to reaccelerate growth investments and solidify supply chains.", "In addition, we benefited from our strategic focus  to expand our service offerings and end-market mix.", "Of special mention is the recent work of our flow control teams and their  involvement in providing critical products and solutions for the COVID-19 vaccine production.", "What we have gained and accomplished since the onset of the pandemic is significant  and sets the stage for our fiscal 2022 and years to come.", "Looking forward, we have many exciting near-term opportunities to  productively and effectively impact our customers as the leading technical products, services and solutions provider to industrial  markets.", "We join many others in being hopeful and excited about the prospects for our health, well-being and return to familiar activity \u2013  personally and professionally.", "Still, as we have experienced since its onset, the COVID journey is a marathon, not a sprint, and we  remain firm on providing a healthy and safe work environment at Applied.", "Ensuring we satisfy our customers\u2019 needs while also  adhering to associate safety remains our primary objective.", "2 While we are still in the early innings of fully capitalizing on our potential, we are clearly gaining momentum, with related  business wins increasing and our broader teams actively engaged.", "Having launched in September 2020, we have seen the We Are Applied SM campaign take hold \u2013 internally and externally \u2013  showcasing our vast experience, innovative technologies and multi-channel initiatives that work together to make us THE  supplier of choice for technical MRO, OE, and return-enhancing solutions across critical industrial infrastructure.", "It also serves  as a timely prelude to our approaching 100-year anniversary, demonstrating our strong foundation and the many chapters  yet to be written on the successful story of Applied. \u201cNew opportunities\u201d and \u201cexpanding growth potential\u201d are words that accurately describe Applied and continue to  inspire our associates.", "This view reflects the deep belief in our value proposition and technical industry positon, as well as  a long-standing commitment to operational excellence.", "These attributes have strengthened our competitive moat, while  expanding our addressable market in recent years \u2013 providing an engaging path for faster growth and margin expansion.  We have the most comprehensive portfolio and technical service capabilities, premier engineered solution expertise, and  greatest track record of consistency and commitment across our core industrial product categories.", "We are applying a  similar focus into new emerging industrial solutions as we adapt and position the Company for years to come.", "Our strong  local presence and ongoing talent investment provide further support to this foundation.", "Across Applied, we are eager to demonstrate our full value-add as we continue to leverage our differentiated industry  position.", "From our comprehensive MRO capabilities to our technical products and engineered solutions, we have multiple  channels to accelerate growth.", "Central to this effort is fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded fluid power,  flow control, automation, consumables, and e-business capabilities.", "We can see evidence of this cross-selling potential  emerging throughout the Company, supported by our We Are Applied SM business positioning and marketing campaign.", "Following several acquisitions over the past two years and ongoing execution of our strategic growth initiatives, we have  established Applied as a leading distributor and solutions provider of advanced factory automation technologies focused  on machine vision, robotics, motion control, and digital networking.", "Our expanding automation offering aligns with and  complements related trends across our legacy operations.", "This includes fluid power where our industry-leading capabilities  around electronic integration, software coding, pneumatics automation, and smart technology applications are driving  new growth opportunities as customers increasingly focus on machine advancements and data analytics.", "In addition, we  continue to expand our industrial IoT offering throughout our Service Center network to address our customers\u2019 Factory of  the Future initiatives.", "We are encouraged by our progress in identifying and developing opportunities aimed at connecting our automation and  smart technology capabilities across varied vertical markets, such as Semiconductors & Electronics, Medical & Life Science,  Food Processing, Logistics, and Data Centers.", "Our growing position across these emerging industrial technologies together  with our holistic design, assembly, and integration solutions are driving greater recognition across our served industries.  We aim to expand this position in coming years, presenting a significant growth opportunity as technology continues to  converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end markets.", "Collectively, we recognize our business requirements and social responsibility in serving all stakeholders.", "Our updated  Corporate Social Responsibility report highlights this ongoing progress and demonstrated commitment to ensuring that  Applied conducts business fairly, honestly and ethically, in every location where we do business.", "Clearly, we have relevant profitable growth opportunities to help us execute our strategic plan elements of Core Growth;  Products and Services Expansion; Automation, Fluid Power, and Flow Control Leadership; Operational Excellence; and  Acquisitions.", "We are fully prepared to leverage our capabilities and build upon our momentum\u2026 serving customers and  generating benefits for associates, suppliers, communities and shareholders.", "On behalf of all of Applied, we thank you not only for your continued trust in Applied, but for recognizing our significant  value and potential.", "We are proud of our accomplishments to date, and we continue to believe our best days are ahead\u2026   Working Together, Winning Together!", "As we enter fiscal 2022 \u2013 and our 99th year of doing business \u2013 the resilient nature of Applied is apparent through  individual efforts, teamwork, cross-functional collaboration, and solid financial performance.", "As markets stabilize  and continue to demonstrate sequential growth, we will take full advantage of the fundamental drivers and strategic  initiatives that will benefit our business throughout our long-range strategy horizon\u2026 propelling us to our 100-year  anniversary in 2023 and beyond!", "We are a leading distributor and solutions provider of industrial motion, power, control, and automation  technologies.  Through our comprehensive network of approximately 5,900 employee associates and 568 facilities  including service center, fluid power, flow control, and automation operations, as well as repair shops and  distribution centers, we offer a selection of more than 7.5 million stock keeping units with a focus on industrial  bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, specialty flow control, and advanced  factory automation solutions.  We market our products with a set of service solutions including inventory  management, engineering, design, assembly, repair, and systems integration, as well as customized mechanical,  fabricated rubber, and shop services.  Our customers use our products and services for both MRO (maintenance,  repair, and operating) and OEM (original equipment manufacturing) applications across a variety of end markets  primarily in North America, as well as Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.  Headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio,  Applied and its predecessor companies have engaged in business since 1923.", "Our internet address is www.applied.com.  The following documents are available free of charge via hyperlink from  the investor relations area of our website:", "VALUE PROPOSITION We serve a segment of the industrial market that requires technical expertise and service given that our products and  solutions are directly tied to companies\u2019 production and efficiency initiatives.  As such, we believe we are integral to  our customers\u2019 supply chains considering the critical nature and direct exposure our solutions have on our customers\u2019  core production equipment and plant capabilities.  While we compete with other distributors and service providers  offering products and solutions addressing this area of the industrial supply chain, we believe our industry position  and value proposition benefits from relative advantages tied to the following key attributes:", "We focus on helping customers minimize their production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce  overall procurement and maintenance costs, as well as optimize the efficiency and safety of their facilities and  equipment.  A primary focus for our service center network is responding to a critical \u201cbreak-fix\u201d situation, which  requires knowledge of a customer\u2019s facility, localized inventory, timely delivery capabilities, service execution, and  accountability.  In addition, our fluid power, flow control, and automation operations design, engineer, and  integrate solutions focused on making a customer\u2019s operations and equipment more productive, cost-efficient, and", "automated.  We believe our products and solutions are increasingly critical within the industrial supply chain given an  aging and tighter customer labor force, more sophisticated production equipment and processes, a greater focus on  plant floor optimization, and compliance and regulatory requirements.", "INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION We primarily compete within North America which we believe offers significant growth potential given our industry  position, established distribution and sales network, market fragmentation, and customer technical requirements, as  well as opportunities tied to automation and smart technologies.  Growth within our industry is influenced by  broader industrial production and capacity utilization, as well as inflation, labor dynamics, capital spending,  geopolitical events, factory optimization initiatives, changes in industrial equipment technologies, and supply chain  requirements.", "Our principal competitors are specialist and general line distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid  power components and systems, flow control solutions, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, and  automation solutions, and to a lesser extent providers of tools, safety products, and other industrial and  maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational operations.  We also  compete with original equipment manufacturers and integrators.  The identity and number of our competitors vary  throughout the geographic, industry, and product markets we serve.", "STRATEGIC GROWTH AND OPERATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES \u2022 Capture market share across our core service center network.  Our network of service centers located close to industrial companies allows us to respond quickly and effectively to critical MRO situations involving direct production infrastructure and industrial equipment.  We believe more sophisticated industrial production processes and customer labor constraints, as well as increased industrial capacity and manufacturing activity across North America could drive greater demand for our products and services.  We continue to deploy initiatives to further enhance our capabilities across our service center network and gain market share.  These include investments in analytics, strategic account penetration, sales process optimization, talent development, and digital channel solutions, as well as fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded product and service platform across fluid power, flow control, automation, and consumables solutions.", "\u2022 Extend our leading fluid power and flow control position as demand for comprehensive solutions grows.  We provide innovative fluid power and flow control solutions including systems design and engineering, electronic control integration, software programming, valve actuation, compliance consulting, fabrication and assembly, and dedicated service and repair.  Demand for these solutions is increasing across a variety of industrial, off-highway mobile, technology, and process related applications given a greater focus on power consumption, plant efficiency and automation, emissions control, electrification, remote monitoring, advancements in machining, regulatory and compliance standards, and data analytics.  We believe our service and engineering capabilities, shop network, and supplier relationships, combined with our software coding and smart technology application knowledge, are key competitive advantages.  We see opportunities to leverage these advantages across new and underserved geographies, as well as through new commercial solutions that could drive a greater share gain of this market opportunity in coming years.", "We are expanding our position and capabilities focused on advanced factory automation and smart technologies that optimize and connect customers\u2019 industrial supply chains.  We believe we have a favorable position to capture this addressable market given our technical product focus, service capabilities, embedded customer relationships and knowledge across direct production infrastructure and equipment, and existing supplier relationships.  Following several business acquisitions made since fiscal 2020, we now offer products and solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and distribution of machine vision, robotic technologies, and motion control.  Our emerging growth across these areas is diversifying our end-market exposure with greater penetration into technology, life sciences, logistics, and food and beverage industries.", "We expect to continue to expand our automation footprint and capabilities in coming years, as well as pursue opportunities tied to the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT).  We believe this market potential could be meaningful as technology continues to converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end-markets.", "\u2022 Execute ongoing operational initiatives supporting margin profile.  We have a number of initiatives focused on driving operational improvements throughout the organization.  Systems investments in recent years including common ERP platforms are supporting opportunities in leveraging shared services, refining our sales management process, and standardizing pricing and sourcing functions, while we continue to optimize our shop and distribution network and analytics.  We also remain focused on achieving margin synergies across our operations following expansion into flow control and automation.  This includes enhanced pricing functions, leveraging vendor procurement, freight savings, and refined cost management.  Combined with", "OPERATIONS Our distribution and sales network consists of approximately 445 locations in our Service Center Distribution  segment and 123 locations in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  This includes service centers, distribution  centers, and facilities tied to our fluid power, flow control, and automation operations.  Our service centers resemble  local inventory hubs located in close proximity to our customers and focused primarily on MRO related fulfillment  and service needs.  Our fluid power, flow control, and automation locations support technical and shop-oriented  services integral to the more specialized and integrated nature of the products and solutions they provide.  Other  operations and channels we market through include inventory management services for indirect consumable  supplies and digital solutions including our Applied.com website, electronic data interchange (EDI) and other  electronic interfaces with customers' technology platforms and plant maintenance systems.", "Our distribution centers provide daily service to our service centers, helping replenish inventories and shipping  products directly to customers where appropriate.  An efficient supply chain and timely delivery of our products is  vital to our value proposition particularly when customers require products for emergency repairs.  We utilize  dedicated third-party transportation providers, our own delivery vehicles, as well as surface and air common carrier  and courier services.  Customers may also pick up items at our service centers.  We maintain product inventory levels  at each service center tailored to the local market.  These inventories consist of standard items as well as other items  specific to local customer demand.", "Our operations are primarily based in the U.S. where 86% of our fiscal 2021 sales were generated.  We also have  international operations, the largest of which is in Canada (8% of fiscal 2021 sales) with the balance (6% of fiscal  2021 sales) in Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.", "SUPPLIERS We are a leading distributor of products including bearings, power transmission products, engineered fluid power  components and systems, specialty flow control solutions, advanced automation products, industrial rubber  products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.", "These products are generally supplied to us by manufacturers whom we serve as a non-exclusive distributor.  The  suppliers also may provide us product training, as well as sales and marketing support.  Authorizations to represent  particular suppliers and product lines vary by geographic region, particularly for our fluid power, flow control, and  automation businesses.  We believe our supplier relationships are generally good, and many have existed for  decades.  The disruption of relationships with certain suppliers, or the disruption of their operations, could adversely  affect our business.", "Our product suppliers typically confine their direct sales activities to large-volume transactions, mainly with large  original equipment manufacturers.  The suppliers generally do not sell maintenance and repair products directly to  the customer, but instead refer the customer to us or another distributor.", "MARKETS  We purchase from thousands of product manufacturers and resell the products to thousands of customers in a wide  variety of industries, including agriculture and food processing, cement, chemicals and petrochemicals, fabricated  metals, forest products, industrial machinery and equipment, life sciences, mining, oil and gas, primary metals,  technology, transportation, and utilities, as well as to government entities.  Customers range from very large  businesses, with which we may have multiple-location relationships, to very small ones.  We are not significantly  dependent on a single customer or group of customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on  our business as a whole, and no single customer accounts for more than 4% of our fiscal 2021 sales.", "We expect to pursue additional acquisitions aligned with our growth strategy and long-term financial targets.", "We view acquisitions as an important growth consideration given high fragmentation, greater operational and technical requirements, and supplier authorizations within the markets we serve.  We believe our sourcing strategy, cash generation capabilities, industry relationships, and operational discipline are key to our acquisition success.  In addition, dedicated corporate teams and related support functions provide strategic oversight of critical work streams and integration execution, which we believe enhances our ability to capture synergistic value.  Over the near to intermediate-term, our acquisition priorities are focused on continuing to expand our current offerings, while further enhancing our technical differentiation and value-added service capabilities.", "SERVICES We believe part of our success, differentiation, and competitive advantage is attributable to the comprehensive set of  services and solutions we provide, which we view as critical given the technical nature and application of our core  product offering of motion, power, control, and automation technologies.  The foundation of our service capabilities  lies with our technically oriented associate team, which includes engineers, industry segment specialists, mechanics,  technicians, fluid power specialists, as well as our systems, shop network, and supplier relationships.  We believe  knowledge and service capabilities relating to our core product offering are increasingly needed across our customer  base given skilled labor constraints within their operations, maintenance requirements, and more sophisticated plant  equipment and processes.  Our services and solutions help customers minimize production downtime, improve  machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs.  By providing high levels of service,  product and industry expertise, and technical support, while at the same time offering product breadth and  competitive pricing, we believe we develop stronger, longer-lasting, and more profitable customer relationships.    See the Reportable Segments section below for more detail on the various service solutions we provide to customers.", "REPORTABLE SEGMENTS We report results of operations in two segments: 1) Service Center Based Distribution, and 2) Fluid Power & Flow  Control.  In fiscal 2021, our Service Center Based Distribution segment represented 68% of our total sales, while our  Fluid Power & Flow Control segment represented 32% of our total sales.", "Service Center Based Distribution.  Our Service Center Based Distribution segment includes our legacy MRO  distribution operations across North America, Australia, and New Zealand.  This business operates through local  service centers and distribution centers with a focus on providing products and services addressing the maintenance  and repair of motion control infrastructure and production equipment.  Products primarily include industrial  bearings, motors, belting, drives, couplings, pumps, linear motion products, hydraulic and pneumatic components,  filtration supplies, and hoses, as well as other related supplies for general operational needs of customers\u2019 machinery  and equipment.", "Fluid Power & Flow Control.  Our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment includes our operations that specialize in  distributing, engineering, designing, integrating, and repairing hydraulic and pneumatic fluid power technologies,  and engineered flow control products and services.  We believe we are the largest distributor and solutions provider  of fluid power and industrial flow control products and solutions in the U.S.  The segment also includes our  operations that focus on advanced automation solutions, including machine vision, robotics, motion control, and  smart technologies.", "Our specialty flow control operations provide highly engineered process flow control products, solutions, and  services.  Products include pumps, valves, fittings, hoses, process instrumentation, actuators, and filtration supplies  which are used to control the flow of liquids and gases in mission-critical industrial applications.  Our flow control  products and services are focused on MRO related applications; OEMs; and engineering, procurement, and  construction (EPC) firms across a variety of industries including chemicals, steel, power, oil and gas, pulp and paper,  life sciences, pharmaceuticals, food and beverage, and general industrials.  Similar to our fluid power operations, our  flow control offering includes technical service capabilities such as flow control systems integration, repair services,  valve actuation, process instrumentation, pipe and hose fabrication, and compliance consulting.", "Our advanced automation operations provide solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and  distribution of machine vision, collaborative robots, mobile robots, RFID, industrial networking, and machine learning  technologies for OEMs, machine builders, integrators, and other industrial and technology end users.  Products and  solutions are marketed across a variety of industries including technology, medical, life sciences, logistics, consumer,  and general industrial.  Our automation business helps customers develop, produce, and integrate machine and  facility automation solutions using comprehensive technology and application knowledge.  A core element of our  strategy and value proposition within automation is our value-added and engineered solution capabilities, enabling  us to provide in-depth consultative, design, engineering, assembly, testing, and support services for various customer  requirements.", "HUMAN CAPITAL We attribute our business success to talented, dedicated employee associates who live our Core Values of integrity,  respect, customer focus, commitment to excellence, accountability, innovation, continuous improvement, and  teamwork.", "Associate Development.  We strive to attract, retain, and develop a diverse group of high-performing associates,  empowering them to achieve their potential and providing them opportunities to test their skills, increase their  responsibilities, and advance their careers.  Applied\u2019s commitment to associate development is reflected in our  investments in a learning management system (offering a wide array of internal facilitated training courses, supplier  product training, and other third-party courses), a modern social learning platform, and in-person training through  which associates can continually expand their knowledge base and position themselves to achieve their professional  goals.", "Diversity and Inclusion.  We are committed to a diverse and inclusive workplace that is respectful to all associates  and believe this serves as a cornerstone for a strong company.  We employ multiple initiatives to recruit, train, and  advance diverse associates.  In the area of recruitment, for example, we engage in on-campus events and targeted  recruitment strategies that increase our exposure to diverse populations in order to promote enhanced diversity in  our hiring.", "Health and Safety.  Applied is also committed to the safety and well-being of our associates.", "From the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we focused on protecting our associates\u2019 health and safety, while  ensuring our continued capability to serve our customers.  As a provider of critical parts, services, and solutions to  essential industries, Applied remained open for business.  We implemented significant changes to ensure a safe  operating environment for our associates and to protect our customers and communities, including remote work as  feasible, social distancing protocols, heightened sanitation procedures, and masking policies.  BACKLOG AND SEASONALITY  Backlog orders are not material to our business as a whole, although they are a more important factor for our fluid  power, flow control, and automation businesses.  Our business has exhibited minor seasonality.  In particular, sales  per day during the first half of our fiscal year have historically been slightly lower than the second half due, in part,  to the impact of customer plant shutdowns, summer vacations and holidays.", "PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES, AND LICENSES  Customer recognition of our service marks and trade names, including Applied Industrial Technologies\u00ae, Applied\u00ae,  and AIT\u00ae, is an important contributing factor to our sales.  Patents and licenses are not of material importance to  our business.", "RAW MATERIALS AND GENERAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS   Our operations are dependent on general industrial and economic conditions.  We would be adversely affected by  the unavailability of raw materials to our suppliers, prolonged labor disputes experienced by suppliers or customers,  or by events or conditions that have an adverse effect on industrial activity generally in the markets we serve or on  key customer industries.", "WORKING CAPITAL Our working capital position is discussed in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.", "In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could  materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the  only risks facing the Company.  Certain risks are identified below in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by  reference.", "Our business depends heavily on the operating levels of our customers and the factors that affect them,  including general economic conditions.  The markets for our products and services are subject to conditions or  events that affect demand for goods and materials that our customers produce.  Consequently, demand for our  products and services has been and will continue to be influenced by most of the same factors that affect demand  for and production of customers' goods and materials.", "When customers or prospective customers reduce production levels because of lower demand, increased supply,  higher costs, tight credit conditions, unfavorable currency exchange rates, adverse trade policies, foreign  competition, other competitive disadvantage, offshoring of production, or other reasons, their need for our products  and services diminishes.  Selling prices and terms of sale come under pressure, adversely affecting the profitability  and the durability of customer relationships, and credit losses may increase.  Inventory management becomes more  difficult in times of economic uncertainty.  Volatile economic and credit conditions also make it more difficult for us,  as well as our customers and suppliers, to forecast and plan future business activities.", "The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto continue to impact  our results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are uncertain  and cannot be predicted.  The COVID-19 pandemic created significant volatility, uncertainty, and economic  disruption.  The effects of the pandemic resulted in lost or delayed sales to us, and we experienced business  disruptions as we modified our business practices (including travel, work locations, and cancellation of physical  participation in meetings).  While the pandemic\u2019s impact on social and economic conditions has subsided, the extent  to which it will continue to impact our results of operations and financial condition will depend on evolving factors  that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the following: the duration, spread, and severity of the  pandemic, including due to virus variants, in the countries in which we operate; responsive measures taken by  governmental authorities, businesses, and individuals; the effect on our customers and their demand for our  products and services; the effect on our suppliers and disruptions to the global supply chain; our ability to sell and  provide our products and services and otherwise operate effectively, including as a result of travel restrictions and  associates working from home; disruptions to our operations resulting from associate illness; restrictions or  disruptions to, or reduced availability of, transportation; customers\u2019 ability to pay for our services and products;  closures of our facilities or those of our customers or suppliers; the impact of reduced customer demand on  purchasing incentives we earn from suppliers; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating  conditions can resume.  In addition, the pandemic\u2019s impact on the economy could affect the proper functioning of  financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates, product and energy costs, and interest rates.  The  pandemic\u2019s effects may also amplify the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,  and may continue to materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or  stock price.", "Consolidation in our customers' and suppliers' industries could adversely affect our business and financial  results.  Consolidation continues among our product suppliers and customers.  As customer industries consolidate  or customers otherwise aggregate their purchasing power, a greater proportion of our sales could be derived from  large volume contracts, which could adversely impact margins.  Consolidation among customers can produce  changes in their purchasing strategies, potentially shifting blocks of business among competing distributors and  contributing to volatility in our sales and pressure on prices.  Similarly, continued consolidation among suppliers  could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable pricing and other commercial terms for our inventory purchases.   There can be no assurance we will be able to take advantage of consolidation trends.", "An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings.  We operate in a highly competitive industry.  The  industry remains fragmented, but is consolidating.  Our principal competitors are specialist and general line  distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, flow control solutions,  automation technologies, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, oilfield  supplies, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and  multinational operations, and can include catalog and e-commerce companies.  Competition is largely focused in the  local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities, and price.  Existing competitors have, and future competitors may have, greater financial or other resources than we do,  broader or more appealing product or service offerings, greater market presence, stronger relationships with key  suppliers or customers, or better name recognition.  If existing or future competitors seek to gain or to retain market  share by aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, or otherwise through competitive advantage, our sales and  profitability could be adversely affected.  Our success will also be affected by our ability to continue to provide  competitive offerings as customer preferences or demands evolve, for example with respect to product and service  types, brands, quality, or prices.  Technological evolution or other factors can render product and service offerings  obsolete, potentially impairing our competitive position and our inventory values.", "Our operations outside the United States increase our exposure to global economic and political  conditions and currency exchange volatility.  Foreign operations contributed 14% of our sales in 2021.  This  presence outside the U.S. increases risks associated with exposure to more volatile economic conditions, political  instability, cultural and legal differences in conducting business (including corrupt practices), economic and trade  policy actions, and currency exchange fluctuations.", "Our business could be adversely affected if we do not successfully execute our strategies to grow sales and  earnings.  We have numerous strategies and initiatives to grow sales, leveraging the breadth of our product  offering, supplier relationships, and value-added technical capabilities to differentiate us and improve our", "competitive position.  We also continually seek to enhance gross margins, manage costs, and otherwise improve  earnings.  Many of our activities target improvements to the consistency of our operating practices across our  hundreds of locations.  If we do not implement these initiatives effectively, or if for other reasons they are  unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected.", "Loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, or changes in distribution programs could  adversely affect our sales and earnings.  Our business depends on maintaining an immediately available supply of  various products to meet customer demand.  Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding,  but are terminable by either party.  The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability  of their products, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and have a material adverse effect on our business.  Supply interruptions could arise from raw materials shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity or utilization to  meet demand, financial problems or insolvency, trade issues, labor disputes, public health emergencies, weather  conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control.", "Changes in customer or product mix and downward pressure on sales prices could cause our gross profit  percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Because we serve thousands of customers in many end markets, and offer  millions of products, with varying profitability levels, changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross  profit percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Downward pressure on sales prices could also cause our gross profit  percentage to fluctuate or decline.  We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of deflation,  pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition.", "Our ability to transact business is highly reliant on information systems.  A disruption or security breach  could materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operation.  We depend on information  systems to, among other things, process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections,  purchase products, manage accounts payable processes, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost- effective operations, provide superior service to customers, conduct business communications, and compile financial  results.  A serious, prolonged disruption of our information systems, due to man-made or natural causes, including  power or telecommunications outage, or breach in security, could materially impair fundamental business processes  and increase expenses, decrease sales, or otherwise reduce earnings.", "Because of our reliance on information systems, we are vulnerable to the growing threat of damage or intrusion  from computer viruses or other cyber-attacks, including ransomware and business e-mail compromise, on our  systems.  Despite precautions taken to prevent or mitigate the risks of such incidents, breaches of our systems could  not only cause business disruption, but could also result in the theft of funds, the theft, loss, or disclosure of", "Acquisitions are a key component of our anticipated growth.  We may not be able to identify or to  complete future acquisitions, to integrate them effectively into our operations, or to realize their  anticipated benefits.  Many industries we serve are mature.  As a result, acquisitions of businesses have been  important to our growth.  While we wish to continue to acquire businesses, we may not be able to identify and to  negotiate suitable acquisitions, to obtain financing for them on satisfactory terms, or otherwise to complete  acquisitions.  In addition, existing and future competitors, and private equity firms, increasingly compete with us for  acquisitions, which can increase prices and reduce the number of suitable opportunities; the acquisitions they make  can also adversely impact our market position.", "We seek acquisition opportunities that complement and expand our operations.  However, substantial costs, delays,  or other difficulties related to integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business or financial results.  For  example, we could face significant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating information systems, personnel,  and operations, and implementing procedures and controls in a timely and efficient manner.", "An interruption of operations at our headquarters or distribution centers, or in our means of transporting  product, could adversely impact our business.  Our business depends on maintaining operating activity at our  headquarters and distribution centers, and being able to receive and deliver product in a timely manner.  A serious,  prolonged interruption due to power or telecommunications outage, security incident, terrorist attack, public health  emergency, earthquake, extreme weather events, other natural disasters, fire, flood, transportation disruption, or  other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.", "Our business depends on our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain qualified employees.  Our  success depends on hiring, developing, motivating, and retaining key employees, including executive, managerial,  sales, professional, and other personnel.  We may have difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel.  In  addition, we may have difficulty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against  us.  With respect to sales and customer service positions in particular, we greatly benefit from having employees who  are familiar with the products and services we sell, and their applications, as well as with our customer and supplier", "relationships.  The loss of key employees or our failure to attract and retain other qualified workers could disrupt or  adversely affect our business.  In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased competition  for employees, shortages of qualified workers, higher employee turnover (including through retirement as the  workforce ages), or increased employee compensation or benefit costs.", "We believe having a local presence is important to serving our customers, so we maintain service centers and other  operations in local markets throughout the countries in which we operate.  At June 30, 2021, we owned real  properties at 115 locations and leased 418 locations.  Certain properties house more than one operation.", "The properties in Baldwinsville, Newark, Midland, and Stafford are used in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Fontana and Longview properties are used in both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and the Fluid  Power & Flow Control segment.  The remaining properties are used in the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.", "We consider our properties generally sufficient to meet our requirements for office space and inventory stocking.", "When opening new operations, we have tended to lease rather than purchase real property.  We do not consider  any service center, distribution center, or shop property to be material, because we believe that, if it becomes  necessary or desirable to relocate an operation, other suitable property could be found.", "In addition to operating locations, we own or lease certain properties which in the aggregate are not material and  are either for sale, lease, or sublease to third parties due to a relocation or closing.  We also may lease or sublease to  others unused portions of buildings.", "Fiscal 2021 ended on a positive note as underlying demand continued to strengthen across both segments during  the fourth quarter reflecting sustained recovery in our core end-markets and momentum across our internal growth  initiatives.", "We are managing inflation well and controlling costs, while benefiting from productivity enhancements.  Fiscal 2022 is off to a positive start with organic sales through early August up by a high-teens percent over the prior  year and customer indications signaling sustained demand momentum.", "Applied monitors several economic indices that have been key indicators for industrial economic activity in the United  States.  These include the Industrial Production (IP) and Manufacturing Capacity Utilization (MCU) indices published  by the Federal Reserve Board and the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) published by the Institute for Supply  Management (ISM).  Historically, our performance correlates well with the MCU, which measures productivity and  calculates a ratio of actual manufacturing output versus potential full capacity output.  When manufacturing plants  are running at a high rate of capacity, they tend to wear out machinery and require replacement parts.", "We evaluate the recoverability of our slow-moving and inactive inventories at least quarterly.  We estimate the  recoverable cost of such inventory by product type while considering factors such as its age, historic and current  demand trends, the physical condition of the inventory, as well as assumptions regarding future demand.  Our ability  to recover our cost for slow moving or obsolete inventory can be affected by such factors as general market  conditions, future customer demand and relationships with suppliers.  A significant portion of the products we hold  in inventory have long shelf lives and are not highly susceptible to obsolescence.", "Important risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to the operations levels of our  customers and the economic factors that affect them; risks relating to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic;  changes in the prices for products and services relative to the cost of providing them; reduction in supplier inventory  purchase incentives; loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, changes in supplier distribution  programs, inability of suppliers to perform, and transportation disruptions; the cost of products and energy and  other operating costs; changes in customer preferences for products and services of the nature and brands sold by  us; changes in customer procurement policies and practices; competitive pressures; our reliance on information  systems and risks relating to their proper functioning, the security of those systems, and the data stored in or  transmitted through them; the impact of economic conditions on the collectability of trade receivables; reduced  demand for our products in targeted markets due to reasons including consolidation in customer industries; our  ability to retain and attract qualified sales and customer service personnel and other skilled executives, managers and  professionals; our ability to identify and complete acquisitions, integrate them effectively, and realize their  anticipated benefits; the variability, timing and nature of new business opportunities including acquisitions, alliances,  customer relationships, and supplier authorizations; the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in connection  with acquisitions; our ability to access capital markets as needed on reasonable terms; disruption of operations at our  headquarters or distribution centers; risks and uncertainties associated with our foreign operations, including volatile  economic conditions, political instability, cultural and legal differences, and currency exchange fluctuations; the  potential for goodwill and intangible asset impairment; changes in accounting policies and practices; our ability to  maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; organizational changes within the Company; risks related  to legal proceedings to which we are a party; potentially adverse government regulation, legislation, or policies, both  enacted and under consideration, including with respect to federal tax policy, international trade, data privacy and  security, and government contracting; and the occurrence of extraordinary events (including prolonged labor  disputes, power outages, telecommunication outages, terrorist acts, public health emergency, earthquakes, extreme  weather events, other natural disasters, fires, floods, and accidents).  Other factors and unanticipated events could  also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.", "Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the \u201cCompany\u201d or \u201cApplied\u201d) is a leading value-added  distributor and technical solutions provider of industrial motion, fluid power, flow control, automation technologies,  and related maintenance supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve  MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all  industrial markets through our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  Although  the Company does not generally manufacture the products it sells, it does assemble and repair certain products and  systems.", "Our leading brands, specialized  services, and comprehensive knowledge serve MRO and OEM end users in virtually all industrial markets through  our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.", "About the Cover: As the leading technical products,  services and solutions provider to industrial markets, Applied  continually strives to enhance customer partnerships \u2013 even  in challenging times.", "In recognition of our excellent support  and great customer service, our Chula Vista, CA service  center team received a Supplier Recognition Award for going  above and beyond on a consistent basis.", "Across the organization, we can look back at  the solid progress we have made and be proud of how well we served and supported our  customers, critical industrial infrastructure, and our fellow associates.", "Our operational procedures  and protocols \u2013 aligned with the CDC, OSHA and other leading health organizations \u2013 proved  beneficial in our resolve.  During the initial weeks of the COVID-19 pandemic, I stated my belief that Applied\u00ae has never been in a better position to manage  through the current environment and exit the pandemic-driven downturn even stronger.", "This is a direct reflection of the tremendous team we have across the organization  and highlights the strong potential that lies ahead.", "As fiscal 2021 progressed, we saw order momentum intensify as customers increased production activity across their facilities and  turned to us for critical MRO support.", "Our local presence, and expanding technical and service capabilities proved impactful as  customers began to reaccelerate growth investments and solidify supply chains.", "In addition, we benefited from our strategic focus  to expand our service offerings and end-market mix.", "Of special mention is the recent work of our flow control teams and their  involvement in providing critical products and solutions for the COVID-19 vaccine production.", "What we have gained and accomplished since the onset of the pandemic is significant  and sets the stage for our fiscal 2022 and years to come.", "Looking forward, we have many exciting near-term opportunities to  productively and effectively impact our customers as the leading technical products, services and solutions provider to industrial  markets.", "We join many others in being hopeful and excited about the prospects for our health, well-being and return to familiar activity \u2013  personally and professionally.", "Still, as we have experienced since its onset, the COVID journey is a marathon, not a sprint, and we  remain firm on providing a healthy and safe work environment at Applied.", "Ensuring we satisfy our customers\u2019 needs while also  adhering to associate safety remains our primary objective.", "2 While we are still in the early innings of fully capitalizing on our potential, we are clearly gaining momentum, with related  business wins increasing and our broader teams actively engaged.", "Having launched in September 2020, we have seen the We Are Applied SM campaign take hold \u2013 internally and externally \u2013  showcasing our vast experience, innovative technologies and multi-channel initiatives that work together to make us THE  supplier of choice for technical MRO, OE, and return-enhancing solutions across critical industrial infrastructure.", "It also serves  as a timely prelude to our approaching 100-year anniversary, demonstrating our strong foundation and the many chapters  yet to be written on the successful story of Applied. \u201cNew opportunities\u201d and \u201cexpanding growth potential\u201d are words that accurately describe Applied and continue to  inspire our associates.", "This view reflects the deep belief in our value proposition and technical industry positon, as well as  a long-standing commitment to operational excellence.", "These attributes have strengthened our competitive moat, while  expanding our addressable market in recent years \u2013 providing an engaging path for faster growth and margin expansion.  We have the most comprehensive portfolio and technical service capabilities, premier engineered solution expertise, and  greatest track record of consistency and commitment across our core industrial product categories.", "We are applying a  similar focus into new emerging industrial solutions as we adapt and position the Company for years to come.", "Our strong  local presence and ongoing talent investment provide further support to this foundation.", "Across Applied, we are eager to demonstrate our full value-add as we continue to leverage our differentiated industry  position.", "From our comprehensive MRO capabilities to our technical products and engineered solutions, we have multiple  channels to accelerate growth.", "Central to this effort is fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded fluid power,  flow control, automation, consumables, and e-business capabilities.", "We can see evidence of this cross-selling potential  emerging throughout the Company, supported by our We Are Applied SM business positioning and marketing campaign.", "Following several acquisitions over the past two years and ongoing execution of our strategic growth initiatives, we have  established Applied as a leading distributor and solutions provider of advanced factory automation technologies focused  on machine vision, robotics, motion control, and digital networking.", "Our expanding automation offering aligns with and  complements related trends across our legacy operations.", "This includes fluid power where our industry-leading capabilities  around electronic integration, software coding, pneumatics automation, and smart technology applications are driving  new growth opportunities as customers increasingly focus on machine advancements and data analytics.", "In addition, we  continue to expand our industrial IoT offering throughout our Service Center network to address our customers\u2019 Factory of  the Future initiatives.", "We are encouraged by our progress in identifying and developing opportunities aimed at connecting our automation and  smart technology capabilities across varied vertical markets, such as Semiconductors & Electronics, Medical & Life Science,  Food Processing, Logistics, and Data Centers.", "Our growing position across these emerging industrial technologies together  with our holistic design, assembly, and integration solutions are driving greater recognition across our served industries.  We aim to expand this position in coming years, presenting a significant growth opportunity as technology continues to  converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end markets.", "Collectively, we recognize our business requirements and social responsibility in serving all stakeholders.", "Our updated  Corporate Social Responsibility report highlights this ongoing progress and demonstrated commitment to ensuring that  Applied conducts business fairly, honestly and ethically, in every location where we do business.", "Clearly, we have relevant profitable growth opportunities to help us execute our strategic plan elements of Core Growth;  Products and Services Expansion; Automation, Fluid Power, and Flow Control Leadership; Operational Excellence; and  Acquisitions.", "We are fully prepared to leverage our capabilities and build upon our momentum\u2026 serving customers and  generating benefits for associates, suppliers, communities and shareholders.", "On behalf of all of Applied, we thank you not only for your continued trust in Applied, but for recognizing our significant  value and potential.", "We are proud of our accomplishments to date, and we continue to believe our best days are ahead\u2026   Working Together, Winning Together!", "As we enter fiscal 2022 \u2013 and our 99th year of doing business \u2013 the resilient nature of Applied is apparent through  individual efforts, teamwork, cross-functional collaboration, and solid financial performance.", "As markets stabilize  and continue to demonstrate sequential growth, we will take full advantage of the fundamental drivers and strategic  initiatives that will benefit our business throughout our long-range strategy horizon\u2026 propelling us to our 100-year  anniversary in 2023 and beyond!", "We are a leading distributor and solutions provider of industrial motion, power, control, and automation  technologies.  Through our comprehensive network of approximately 5,900 employee associates and 568 facilities  including service center, fluid power, flow control, and automation operations, as well as repair shops and  distribution centers, we offer a selection of more than 7.5 million stock keeping units with a focus on industrial  bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, specialty flow control, and advanced  factory automation solutions.  We market our products with a set of service solutions including inventory  management, engineering, design, assembly, repair, and systems integration, as well as customized mechanical,  fabricated rubber, and shop services.  Our customers use our products and services for both MRO (maintenance,  repair, and operating) and OEM (original equipment manufacturing) applications across a variety of end markets  primarily in North America, as well as Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.  Headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio,  Applied and its predecessor companies have engaged in business since 1923.", "Our internet address is www.applied.com.  The following documents are available free of charge via hyperlink from  the investor relations area of our website:", "VALUE PROPOSITION We serve a segment of the industrial market that requires technical expertise and service given that our products and  solutions are directly tied to companies\u2019 production and efficiency initiatives.  As such, we believe we are integral to  our customers\u2019 supply chains considering the critical nature and direct exposure our solutions have on our customers\u2019  core production equipment and plant capabilities.  While we compete with other distributors and service providers  offering products and solutions addressing this area of the industrial supply chain, we believe our industry position  and value proposition benefits from relative advantages tied to the following key attributes:", "We focus on helping customers minimize their production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce  overall procurement and maintenance costs, as well as optimize the efficiency and safety of their facilities and  equipment.  A primary focus for our service center network is responding to a critical \u201cbreak-fix\u201d situation, which  requires knowledge of a customer\u2019s facility, localized inventory, timely delivery capabilities, service execution, and  accountability.  In addition, our fluid power, flow control, and automation operations design, engineer, and  integrate solutions focused on making a customer\u2019s operations and equipment more productive, cost-efficient, and", "automated.  We believe our products and solutions are increasingly critical within the industrial supply chain given an  aging and tighter customer labor force, more sophisticated production equipment and processes, a greater focus on  plant floor optimization, and compliance and regulatory requirements.", "INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION We primarily compete within North America which we believe offers significant growth potential given our industry  position, established distribution and sales network, market fragmentation, and customer technical requirements, as  well as opportunities tied to automation and smart technologies.  Growth within our industry is influenced by  broader industrial production and capacity utilization, as well as inflation, labor dynamics, capital spending,  geopolitical events, factory optimization initiatives, changes in industrial equipment technologies, and supply chain  requirements.", "Our principal competitors are specialist and general line distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid  power components and systems, flow control solutions, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, and  automation solutions, and to a lesser extent providers of tools, safety products, and other industrial and  maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational operations.  We also  compete with original equipment manufacturers and integrators.  The identity and number of our competitors vary  throughout the geographic, industry, and product markets we serve.", "STRATEGIC GROWTH AND OPERATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES \u2022 Capture market share across our core service center network.  Our network of service centers located close to industrial companies allows us to respond quickly and effectively to critical MRO situations involving direct production infrastructure and industrial equipment.  We believe more sophisticated industrial production processes and customer labor constraints, as well as increased industrial capacity and manufacturing activity across North America could drive greater demand for our products and services.  We continue to deploy initiatives to further enhance our capabilities across our service center network and gain market share.  These include investments in analytics, strategic account penetration, sales process optimization, talent development, and digital channel solutions, as well as fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded product and service platform across fluid power, flow control, automation, and consumables solutions.", "\u2022 Extend our leading fluid power and flow control position as demand for comprehensive solutions grows.  We provide innovative fluid power and flow control solutions including systems design and engineering, electronic control integration, software programming, valve actuation, compliance consulting, fabrication and assembly, and dedicated service and repair.  Demand for these solutions is increasing across a variety of industrial, off-highway mobile, technology, and process related applications given a greater focus on power consumption, plant efficiency and automation, emissions control, electrification, remote monitoring, advancements in machining, regulatory and compliance standards, and data analytics.  We believe our service and engineering capabilities, shop network, and supplier relationships, combined with our software coding and smart technology application knowledge, are key competitive advantages.  We see opportunities to leverage these advantages across new and underserved geographies, as well as through new commercial solutions that could drive a greater share gain of this market opportunity in coming years.", "We are expanding our position and capabilities focused on advanced factory automation and smart technologies that optimize and connect customers\u2019 industrial supply chains.  We believe we have a favorable position to capture this addressable market given our technical product focus, service capabilities, embedded customer relationships and knowledge across direct production infrastructure and equipment, and existing supplier relationships.  Following several business acquisitions made since fiscal 2020, we now offer products and solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and distribution of machine vision, robotic technologies, and motion control.  Our emerging growth across these areas is diversifying our end-market exposure with greater penetration into technology, life sciences, logistics, and food and beverage industries.", "We expect to continue to expand our automation footprint and capabilities in coming years, as well as pursue opportunities tied to the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT).  We believe this market potential could be meaningful as technology continues to converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end-markets.", "\u2022 Execute ongoing operational initiatives supporting margin profile.  We have a number of initiatives focused on driving operational improvements throughout the organization.  Systems investments in recent years including common ERP platforms are supporting opportunities in leveraging shared services, refining our sales management process, and standardizing pricing and sourcing functions, while we continue to optimize our shop and distribution network and analytics.  We also remain focused on achieving margin synergies across our operations following expansion into flow control and automation.  This includes enhanced pricing functions, leveraging vendor procurement, freight savings, and refined cost management.  Combined with", "OPERATIONS Our distribution and sales network consists of approximately 445 locations in our Service Center Distribution  segment and 123 locations in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  This includes service centers, distribution  centers, and facilities tied to our fluid power, flow control, and automation operations.  Our service centers resemble  local inventory hubs located in close proximity to our customers and focused primarily on MRO related fulfillment  and service needs.  Our fluid power, flow control, and automation locations support technical and shop-oriented  services integral to the more specialized and integrated nature of the products and solutions they provide.  Other  operations and channels we market through include inventory management services for indirect consumable  supplies and digital solutions including our Applied.com website, electronic data interchange (EDI) and other  electronic interfaces with customers' technology platforms and plant maintenance systems.", "Our distribution centers provide daily service to our service centers, helping replenish inventories and shipping  products directly to customers where appropriate.  An efficient supply chain and timely delivery of our products is  vital to our value proposition particularly when customers require products for emergency repairs.  We utilize  dedicated third-party transportation providers, our own delivery vehicles, as well as surface and air common carrier  and courier services.  Customers may also pick up items at our service centers.  We maintain product inventory levels  at each service center tailored to the local market.  These inventories consist of standard items as well as other items  specific to local customer demand.", "Our operations are primarily based in the U.S. where 86% of our fiscal 2021 sales were generated.  We also have  international operations, the largest of which is in Canada (8% of fiscal 2021 sales) with the balance (6% of fiscal  2021 sales) in Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.", "SUPPLIERS We are a leading distributor of products including bearings, power transmission products, engineered fluid power  components and systems, specialty flow control solutions, advanced automation products, industrial rubber  products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.", "These products are generally supplied to us by manufacturers whom we serve as a non-exclusive distributor.  The  suppliers also may provide us product training, as well as sales and marketing support.  Authorizations to represent  particular suppliers and product lines vary by geographic region, particularly for our fluid power, flow control, and  automation businesses.  We believe our supplier relationships are generally good, and many have existed for  decades.  The disruption of relationships with certain suppliers, or the disruption of their operations, could adversely  affect our business.", "Our product suppliers typically confine their direct sales activities to large-volume transactions, mainly with large  original equipment manufacturers.  The suppliers generally do not sell maintenance and repair products directly to  the customer, but instead refer the customer to us or another distributor.", "MARKETS  We purchase from thousands of product manufacturers and resell the products to thousands of customers in a wide  variety of industries, including agriculture and food processing, cement, chemicals and petrochemicals, fabricated  metals, forest products, industrial machinery and equipment, life sciences, mining, oil and gas, primary metals,  technology, transportation, and utilities, as well as to government entities.  Customers range from very large  businesses, with which we may have multiple-location relationships, to very small ones.  We are not significantly  dependent on a single customer or group of customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on  our business as a whole, and no single customer accounts for more than 4% of our fiscal 2021 sales.", "We expect to pursue additional acquisitions aligned with our growth strategy and long-term financial targets.", "We view acquisitions as an important growth consideration given high fragmentation, greater operational and technical requirements, and supplier authorizations within the markets we serve.  We believe our sourcing strategy, cash generation capabilities, industry relationships, and operational discipline are key to our acquisition success.  In addition, dedicated corporate teams and related support functions provide strategic oversight of critical work streams and integration execution, which we believe enhances our ability to capture synergistic value.  Over the near to intermediate-term, our acquisition priorities are focused on continuing to expand our current offerings, while further enhancing our technical differentiation and value-added service capabilities.", "SERVICES We believe part of our success, differentiation, and competitive advantage is attributable to the comprehensive set of  services and solutions we provide, which we view as critical given the technical nature and application of our core  product offering of motion, power, control, and automation technologies.  The foundation of our service capabilities  lies with our technically oriented associate team, which includes engineers, industry segment specialists, mechanics,  technicians, fluid power specialists, as well as our systems, shop network, and supplier relationships.  We believe  knowledge and service capabilities relating to our core product offering are increasingly needed across our customer  base given skilled labor constraints within their operations, maintenance requirements, and more sophisticated plant  equipment and processes.  Our services and solutions help customers minimize production downtime, improve  machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs.  By providing high levels of service,  product and industry expertise, and technical support, while at the same time offering product breadth and  competitive pricing, we believe we develop stronger, longer-lasting, and more profitable customer relationships.    See the Reportable Segments section below for more detail on the various service solutions we provide to customers.", "REPORTABLE SEGMENTS We report results of operations in two segments: 1) Service Center Based Distribution, and 2) Fluid Power & Flow  Control.  In fiscal 2021, our Service Center Based Distribution segment represented 68% of our total sales, while our  Fluid Power & Flow Control segment represented 32% of our total sales.", "Service Center Based Distribution.  Our Service Center Based Distribution segment includes our legacy MRO  distribution operations across North America, Australia, and New Zealand.  This business operates through local  service centers and distribution centers with a focus on providing products and services addressing the maintenance  and repair of motion control infrastructure and production equipment.  Products primarily include industrial  bearings, motors, belting, drives, couplings, pumps, linear motion products, hydraulic and pneumatic components,  filtration supplies, and hoses, as well as other related supplies for general operational needs of customers\u2019 machinery  and equipment.", "Fluid Power & Flow Control.  Our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment includes our operations that specialize in  distributing, engineering, designing, integrating, and repairing hydraulic and pneumatic fluid power technologies,  and engineered flow control products and services.  We believe we are the largest distributor and solutions provider  of fluid power and industrial flow control products and solutions in the U.S.  The segment also includes our  operations that focus on advanced automation solutions, including machine vision, robotics, motion control, and  smart technologies.", "Our specialty flow control operations provide highly engineered process flow control products, solutions, and  services.  Products include pumps, valves, fittings, hoses, process instrumentation, actuators, and filtration supplies  which are used to control the flow of liquids and gases in mission-critical industrial applications.  Our flow control  products and services are focused on MRO related applications; OEMs; and engineering, procurement, and  construction (EPC) firms across a variety of industries including chemicals, steel, power, oil and gas, pulp and paper,  life sciences, pharmaceuticals, food and beverage, and general industrials.  Similar to our fluid power operations, our  flow control offering includes technical service capabilities such as flow control systems integration, repair services,  valve actuation, process instrumentation, pipe and hose fabrication, and compliance consulting.", "Our advanced automation operations provide solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and  distribution of machine vision, collaborative robots, mobile robots, RFID, industrial networking, and machine learning  technologies for OEMs, machine builders, integrators, and other industrial and technology end users.  Products and  solutions are marketed across a variety of industries including technology, medical, life sciences, logistics, consumer,  and general industrial.  Our automation business helps customers develop, produce, and integrate machine and  facility automation solutions using comprehensive technology and application knowledge.  A core element of our  strategy and value proposition within automation is our value-added and engineered solution capabilities, enabling  us to provide in-depth consultative, design, engineering, assembly, testing, and support services for various customer  requirements.", "HUMAN CAPITAL We attribute our business success to talented, dedicated employee associates who live our Core Values of integrity,  respect, customer focus, commitment to excellence, accountability, innovation, continuous improvement, and  teamwork.", "Associate Development.  We strive to attract, retain, and develop a diverse group of high-performing associates,  empowering them to achieve their potential and providing them opportunities to test their skills, increase their  responsibilities, and advance their careers.  Applied\u2019s commitment to associate development is reflected in our  investments in a learning management system (offering a wide array of internal facilitated training courses, supplier  product training, and other third-party courses), a modern social learning platform, and in-person training through  which associates can continually expand their knowledge base and position themselves to achieve their professional  goals.", "Diversity and Inclusion.  We are committed to a diverse and inclusive workplace that is respectful to all associates  and believe this serves as a cornerstone for a strong company.  We employ multiple initiatives to recruit, train, and  advance diverse associates.  In the area of recruitment, for example, we engage in on-campus events and targeted  recruitment strategies that increase our exposure to diverse populations in order to promote enhanced diversity in  our hiring.", "Health and Safety.  Applied is also committed to the safety and well-being of our associates.", "From the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we focused on protecting our associates\u2019 health and safety, while  ensuring our continued capability to serve our customers.  As a provider of critical parts, services, and solutions to  essential industries, Applied remained open for business.  We implemented significant changes to ensure a safe  operating environment for our associates and to protect our customers and communities, including remote work as  feasible, social distancing protocols, heightened sanitation procedures, and masking policies.  BACKLOG AND SEASONALITY  Backlog orders are not material to our business as a whole, although they are a more important factor for our fluid  power, flow control, and automation businesses.  Our business has exhibited minor seasonality.  In particular, sales  per day during the first half of our fiscal year have historically been slightly lower than the second half due, in part,  to the impact of customer plant shutdowns, summer vacations and holidays.", "PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES, AND LICENSES  Customer recognition of our service marks and trade names, including Applied Industrial Technologies\u00ae, Applied\u00ae,  and AIT\u00ae, is an important contributing factor to our sales.  Patents and licenses are not of material importance to  our business.", "RAW MATERIALS AND GENERAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS   Our operations are dependent on general industrial and economic conditions.  We would be adversely affected by  the unavailability of raw materials to our suppliers, prolonged labor disputes experienced by suppliers or customers,  or by events or conditions that have an adverse effect on industrial activity generally in the markets we serve or on  key customer industries.", "WORKING CAPITAL Our working capital position is discussed in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.", "In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could  materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the  only risks facing the Company.  Certain risks are identified below in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by  reference.", "Our business depends heavily on the operating levels of our customers and the factors that affect them,  including general economic conditions.  The markets for our products and services are subject to conditions or  events that affect demand for goods and materials that our customers produce.  Consequently, demand for our  products and services has been and will continue to be influenced by most of the same factors that affect demand  for and production of customers' goods and materials.", "When customers or prospective customers reduce production levels because of lower demand, increased supply,  higher costs, tight credit conditions, unfavorable currency exchange rates, adverse trade policies, foreign  competition, other competitive disadvantage, offshoring of production, or other reasons, their need for our products  and services diminishes.  Selling prices and terms of sale come under pressure, adversely affecting the profitability  and the durability of customer relationships, and credit losses may increase.  Inventory management becomes more  difficult in times of economic uncertainty.  Volatile economic and credit conditions also make it more difficult for us,  as well as our customers and suppliers, to forecast and plan future business activities.", "The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto continue to impact  our results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are uncertain  and cannot be predicted.  The COVID-19 pandemic created significant volatility, uncertainty, and economic  disruption.  The effects of the pandemic resulted in lost or delayed sales to us, and we experienced business  disruptions as we modified our business practices (including travel, work locations, and cancellation of physical  participation in meetings).  While the pandemic\u2019s impact on social and economic conditions has subsided, the extent  to which it will continue to impact our results of operations and financial condition will depend on evolving factors  that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the following: the duration, spread, and severity of the  pandemic, including due to virus variants, in the countries in which we operate; responsive measures taken by  governmental authorities, businesses, and individuals; the effect on our customers and their demand for our  products and services; the effect on our suppliers and disruptions to the global supply chain; our ability to sell and  provide our products and services and otherwise operate effectively, including as a result of travel restrictions and  associates working from home; disruptions to our operations resulting from associate illness; restrictions or  disruptions to, or reduced availability of, transportation; customers\u2019 ability to pay for our services and products;  closures of our facilities or those of our customers or suppliers; the impact of reduced customer demand on  purchasing incentives we earn from suppliers; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating  conditions can resume.  In addition, the pandemic\u2019s impact on the economy could affect the proper functioning of  financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates, product and energy costs, and interest rates.  The  pandemic\u2019s effects may also amplify the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,  and may continue to materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or  stock price.", "Consolidation in our customers' and suppliers' industries could adversely affect our business and financial  results.  Consolidation continues among our product suppliers and customers.  As customer industries consolidate  or customers otherwise aggregate their purchasing power, a greater proportion of our sales could be derived from  large volume contracts, which could adversely impact margins.  Consolidation among customers can produce  changes in their purchasing strategies, potentially shifting blocks of business among competing distributors and  contributing to volatility in our sales and pressure on prices.  Similarly, continued consolidation among suppliers  could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable pricing and other commercial terms for our inventory purchases.   There can be no assurance we will be able to take advantage of consolidation trends.", "An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings.  We operate in a highly competitive industry.  The  industry remains fragmented, but is consolidating.  Our principal competitors are specialist and general line  distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, flow control solutions,  automation technologies, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, oilfield  supplies, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and  multinational operations, and can include catalog and e-commerce companies.  Competition is largely focused in the  local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities, and price.  Existing competitors have, and future competitors may have, greater financial or other resources than we do,  broader or more appealing product or service offerings, greater market presence, stronger relationships with key  suppliers or customers, or better name recognition.  If existing or future competitors seek to gain or to retain market  share by aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, or otherwise through competitive advantage, our sales and  profitability could be adversely affected.  Our success will also be affected by our ability to continue to provide  competitive offerings as customer preferences or demands evolve, for example with respect to product and service  types, brands, quality, or prices.  Technological evolution or other factors can render product and service offerings  obsolete, potentially impairing our competitive position and our inventory values.", "Our operations outside the United States increase our exposure to global economic and political  conditions and currency exchange volatility.  Foreign operations contributed 14% of our sales in 2021.  This  presence outside the U.S. increases risks associated with exposure to more volatile economic conditions, political  instability, cultural and legal differences in conducting business (including corrupt practices), economic and trade  policy actions, and currency exchange fluctuations.", "Our business could be adversely affected if we do not successfully execute our strategies to grow sales and  earnings.  We have numerous strategies and initiatives to grow sales, leveraging the breadth of our product  offering, supplier relationships, and value-added technical capabilities to differentiate us and improve our", "competitive position.  We also continually seek to enhance gross margins, manage costs, and otherwise improve  earnings.  Many of our activities target improvements to the consistency of our operating practices across our  hundreds of locations.  If we do not implement these initiatives effectively, or if for other reasons they are  unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected.", "Loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, or changes in distribution programs could  adversely affect our sales and earnings.  Our business depends on maintaining an immediately available supply of  various products to meet customer demand.  Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding,  but are terminable by either party.  The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability  of their products, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and have a material adverse effect on our business.  Supply interruptions could arise from raw materials shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity or utilization to  meet demand, financial problems or insolvency, trade issues, labor disputes, public health emergencies, weather  conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control.", "Changes in customer or product mix and downward pressure on sales prices could cause our gross profit  percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Because we serve thousands of customers in many end markets, and offer  millions of products, with varying profitability levels, changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross  profit percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Downward pressure on sales prices could also cause our gross profit  percentage to fluctuate or decline.  We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of deflation,  pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition.", "Our ability to transact business is highly reliant on information systems.  A disruption or security breach  could materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operation.  We depend on information  systems to, among other things, process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections,  purchase products, manage accounts payable processes, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost- effective operations, provide superior service to customers, conduct business communications, and compile financial  results.  A serious, prolonged disruption of our information systems, due to man-made or natural causes, including  power or telecommunications outage, or breach in security, could materially impair fundamental business processes  and increase expenses, decrease sales, or otherwise reduce earnings.", "Because of our reliance on information systems, we are vulnerable to the growing threat of damage or intrusion  from computer viruses or other cyber-attacks, including ransomware and business e-mail compromise, on our  systems.  Despite precautions taken to prevent or mitigate the risks of such incidents, breaches of our systems could  not only cause business disruption, but could also result in the theft of funds, the theft, loss, or disclosure of", "Acquisitions are a key component of our anticipated growth.  We may not be able to identify or to  complete future acquisitions, to integrate them effectively into our operations, or to realize their  anticipated benefits.  Many industries we serve are mature.  As a result, acquisitions of businesses have been  important to our growth.  While we wish to continue to acquire businesses, we may not be able to identify and to  negotiate suitable acquisitions, to obtain financing for them on satisfactory terms, or otherwise to complete  acquisitions.  In addition, existing and future competitors, and private equity firms, increasingly compete with us for  acquisitions, which can increase prices and reduce the number of suitable opportunities; the acquisitions they make  can also adversely impact our market position.", "We seek acquisition opportunities that complement and expand our operations.  However, substantial costs, delays,  or other difficulties related to integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business or financial results.  For  example, we could face significant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating information systems, personnel,  and operations, and implementing procedures and controls in a timely and efficient manner.", "An interruption of operations at our headquarters or distribution centers, or in our means of transporting  product, could adversely impact our business.  Our business depends on maintaining operating activity at our  headquarters and distribution centers, and being able to receive and deliver product in a timely manner.  A serious,  prolonged interruption due to power or telecommunications outage, security incident, terrorist attack, public health  emergency, earthquake, extreme weather events, other natural disasters, fire, flood, transportation disruption, or  other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.", "Our business depends on our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain qualified employees.  Our  success depends on hiring, developing, motivating, and retaining key employees, including executive, managerial,  sales, professional, and other personnel.  We may have difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel.  In  addition, we may have difficulty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against  us.  With respect to sales and customer service positions in particular, we greatly benefit from having employees who  are familiar with the products and services we sell, and their applications, as well as with our customer and supplier", "relationships.  The loss of key employees or our failure to attract and retain other qualified workers could disrupt or  adversely affect our business.  In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased competition  for employees, shortages of qualified workers, higher employee turnover (including through retirement as the  workforce ages), or increased employee compensation or benefit costs.", "We believe having a local presence is important to serving our customers, so we maintain service centers and other  operations in local markets throughout the countries in which we operate.  At June 30, 2021, we owned real  properties at 115 locations and leased 418 locations.  Certain properties house more than one operation.", "The properties in Baldwinsville, Newark, Midland, and Stafford are used in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Fontana and Longview properties are used in both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and the Fluid  Power & Flow Control segment.  The remaining properties are used in the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.", "We consider our properties generally sufficient to meet our requirements for office space and inventory stocking.", "When opening new operations, we have tended to lease rather than purchase real property.  We do not consider  any service center, distribution center, or shop property to be material, because we believe that, if it becomes  necessary or desirable to relocate an operation, other suitable property could be found.", "In addition to operating locations, we own or lease certain properties which in the aggregate are not material and  are either for sale, lease, or sublease to third parties due to a relocation or closing.  We also may lease or sublease to  others unused portions of buildings.", "Fiscal 2021 ended on a positive note as underlying demand continued to strengthen across both segments during  the fourth quarter reflecting sustained recovery in our core end-markets and momentum across our internal growth  initiatives.", "We are managing inflation well and controlling costs, while benefiting from productivity enhancements.  Fiscal 2022 is off to a positive start with organic sales through early August up by a high-teens percent over the prior  year and customer indications signaling sustained demand momentum.", "Applied monitors several economic indices that have been key indicators for industrial economic activity in the United  States.  These include the Industrial Production (IP) and Manufacturing Capacity Utilization (MCU) indices published  by the Federal Reserve Board and the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) published by the Institute for Supply  Management (ISM).  Historically, our performance correlates well with the MCU, which measures productivity and  calculates a ratio of actual manufacturing output versus potential full capacity output.  When manufacturing plants  are running at a high rate of capacity, they tend to wear out machinery and require replacement parts.", "We evaluate the recoverability of our slow-moving and inactive inventories at least quarterly.  We estimate the  recoverable cost of such inventory by product type while considering factors such as its age, historic and current  demand trends, the physical condition of the inventory, as well as assumptions regarding future demand.  Our ability  to recover our cost for slow moving or obsolete inventory can be affected by such factors as general market  conditions, future customer demand and relationships with suppliers.  A significant portion of the products we hold  in inventory have long shelf lives and are not highly susceptible to obsolescence.", "Important risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to the operations levels of our  customers and the economic factors that affect them; risks relating to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic;  changes in the prices for products and services relative to the cost of providing them; reduction in supplier inventory  purchase incentives; loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, changes in supplier distribution  programs, inability of suppliers to perform, and transportation disruptions; the cost of products and energy and  other operating costs; changes in customer preferences for products and services of the nature and brands sold by  us; changes in customer procurement policies and practices; competitive pressures; our reliance on information  systems and risks relating to their proper functioning, the security of those systems, and the data stored in or  transmitted through them; the impact of economic conditions on the collectability of trade receivables; reduced  demand for our products in targeted markets due to reasons including consolidation in customer industries; our  ability to retain and attract qualified sales and customer service personnel and other skilled executives, managers and  professionals; our ability to identify and complete acquisitions, integrate them effectively, and realize their  anticipated benefits; the variability, timing and nature of new business opportunities including acquisitions, alliances,  customer relationships, and supplier authorizations; the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in connection  with acquisitions; our ability to access capital markets as needed on reasonable terms; disruption of operations at our  headquarters or distribution centers; risks and uncertainties associated with our foreign operations, including volatile  economic conditions, political instability, cultural and legal differences, and currency exchange fluctuations; the  potential for goodwill and intangible asset impairment; changes in accounting policies and practices; our ability to  maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; organizational changes within the Company; risks related  to legal proceedings to which we are a party; potentially adverse government regulation, legislation, or policies, both  enacted and under consideration, including with respect to federal tax policy, international trade, data privacy and  security, and government contracting; and the occurrence of extraordinary events (including prolonged labor  disputes, power outages, telecommunication outages, terrorist acts, public health emergency, earthquakes, extreme  weather events, other natural disasters, fires, floods, and accidents).  Other factors and unanticipated events could  also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.", "Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the \u201cCompany\u201d or \u201cApplied\u201d) is a leading value-added  distributor and technical solutions provider of industrial motion, fluid power, flow control, automation technologies,  and related maintenance supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve  MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all  industrial markets through our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  Although  the Company does not generally manufacture the products it sells, it does assemble and repair certain products and  systems.", "Our leading brands, specialized  services, and comprehensive knowledge serve MRO and OEM end users in virtually all industrial markets through  our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.", "About the Cover: As the leading technical products,  services and solutions provider to industrial markets, Applied  continually strives to enhance customer partnerships \u2013 even  in challenging times.", "In recognition of our excellent support  and great customer service, our Chula Vista, CA service  center team received a Supplier Recognition Award for going  above and beyond on a consistent basis.", "Across the organization, we can look back at  the solid progress we have made and be proud of how well we served and supported our  customers, critical industrial infrastructure, and our fellow associates.", "Our operational procedures  and protocols \u2013 aligned with the CDC, OSHA and other leading health organizations \u2013 proved  beneficial in our resolve.  During the initial weeks of the COVID-19 pandemic, I stated my belief that Applied\u00ae has never been in a better position to manage  through the current environment and exit the pandemic-driven downturn even stronger.", "This is a direct reflection of the tremendous team we have across the organization  and highlights the strong potential that lies ahead.", "As fiscal 2021 progressed, we saw order momentum intensify as customers increased production activity across their facilities and  turned to us for critical MRO support.", "Our local presence, and expanding technical and service capabilities proved impactful as  customers began to reaccelerate growth investments and solidify supply chains.", "In addition, we benefited from our strategic focus  to expand our service offerings and end-market mix.", "Of special mention is the recent work of our flow control teams and their  involvement in providing critical products and solutions for the COVID-19 vaccine production.", "What we have gained and accomplished since the onset of the pandemic is significant  and sets the stage for our fiscal 2022 and years to come.", "Looking forward, we have many exciting near-term opportunities to  productively and effectively impact our customers as the leading technical products, services and solutions provider to industrial  markets.", "We join many others in being hopeful and excited about the prospects for our health, well-being and return to familiar activity \u2013  personally and professionally.", "Still, as we have experienced since its onset, the COVID journey is a marathon, not a sprint, and we  remain firm on providing a healthy and safe work environment at Applied.", "Ensuring we satisfy our customers\u2019 needs while also  adhering to associate safety remains our primary objective.", "2 While we are still in the early innings of fully capitalizing on our potential, we are clearly gaining momentum, with related  business wins increasing and our broader teams actively engaged.", "Having launched in September 2020, we have seen the We Are Applied SM campaign take hold \u2013 internally and externally \u2013  showcasing our vast experience, innovative technologies and multi-channel initiatives that work together to make us THE  supplier of choice for technical MRO, OE, and return-enhancing solutions across critical industrial infrastructure.", "It also serves  as a timely prelude to our approaching 100-year anniversary, demonstrating our strong foundation and the many chapters  yet to be written on the successful story of Applied. \u201cNew opportunities\u201d and \u201cexpanding growth potential\u201d are words that accurately describe Applied and continue to  inspire our associates.", "This view reflects the deep belief in our value proposition and technical industry positon, as well as  a long-standing commitment to operational excellence.", "These attributes have strengthened our competitive moat, while  expanding our addressable market in recent years \u2013 providing an engaging path for faster growth and margin expansion.  We have the most comprehensive portfolio and technical service capabilities, premier engineered solution expertise, and  greatest track record of consistency and commitment across our core industrial product categories.", "We are applying a  similar focus into new emerging industrial solutions as we adapt and position the Company for years to come.", "Our strong  local presence and ongoing talent investment provide further support to this foundation.", "Across Applied, we are eager to demonstrate our full value-add as we continue to leverage our differentiated industry  position.", "From our comprehensive MRO capabilities to our technical products and engineered solutions, we have multiple  channels to accelerate growth.", "Central to this effort is fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded fluid power,  flow control, automation, consumables, and e-business capabilities.", "We can see evidence of this cross-selling potential  emerging throughout the Company, supported by our We Are Applied SM business positioning and marketing campaign.", "Following several acquisitions over the past two years and ongoing execution of our strategic growth initiatives, we have  established Applied as a leading distributor and solutions provider of advanced factory automation technologies focused  on machine vision, robotics, motion control, and digital networking.", "Our expanding automation offering aligns with and  complements related trends across our legacy operations.", "This includes fluid power where our industry-leading capabilities  around electronic integration, software coding, pneumatics automation, and smart technology applications are driving  new growth opportunities as customers increasingly focus on machine advancements and data analytics.", "In addition, we  continue to expand our industrial IoT offering throughout our Service Center network to address our customers\u2019 Factory of  the Future initiatives.", "We are encouraged by our progress in identifying and developing opportunities aimed at connecting our automation and  smart technology capabilities across varied vertical markets, such as Semiconductors & Electronics, Medical & Life Science,  Food Processing, Logistics, and Data Centers.", "Our growing position across these emerging industrial technologies together  with our holistic design, assembly, and integration solutions are driving greater recognition across our served industries.  We aim to expand this position in coming years, presenting a significant growth opportunity as technology continues to  converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end markets.", "Collectively, we recognize our business requirements and social responsibility in serving all stakeholders.", "Our updated  Corporate Social Responsibility report highlights this ongoing progress and demonstrated commitment to ensuring that  Applied conducts business fairly, honestly and ethically, in every location where we do business.", "Clearly, we have relevant profitable growth opportunities to help us execute our strategic plan elements of Core Growth;  Products and Services Expansion; Automation, Fluid Power, and Flow Control Leadership; Operational Excellence; and  Acquisitions.", "We are fully prepared to leverage our capabilities and build upon our momentum\u2026 serving customers and  generating benefits for associates, suppliers, communities and shareholders.", "On behalf of all of Applied, we thank you not only for your continued trust in Applied, but for recognizing our significant  value and potential.", "We are proud of our accomplishments to date, and we continue to believe our best days are ahead\u2026   Working Together, Winning Together!", "As we enter fiscal 2022 \u2013 and our 99th year of doing business \u2013 the resilient nature of Applied is apparent through  individual efforts, teamwork, cross-functional collaboration, and solid financial performance.", "As markets stabilize  and continue to demonstrate sequential growth, we will take full advantage of the fundamental drivers and strategic  initiatives that will benefit our business throughout our long-range strategy horizon\u2026 propelling us to our 100-year  anniversary in 2023 and beyond!", "We are a leading distributor and solutions provider of industrial motion, power, control, and automation  technologies.  Through our comprehensive network of approximately 5,900 employee associates and 568 facilities  including service center, fluid power, flow control, and automation operations, as well as repair shops and  distribution centers, we offer a selection of more than 7.5 million stock keeping units with a focus on industrial  bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, specialty flow control, and advanced  factory automation solutions.  We market our products with a set of service solutions including inventory  management, engineering, design, assembly, repair, and systems integration, as well as customized mechanical,  fabricated rubber, and shop services.  Our customers use our products and services for both MRO (maintenance,  repair, and operating) and OEM (original equipment manufacturing) applications across a variety of end markets  primarily in North America, as well as Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.  Headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio,  Applied and its predecessor companies have engaged in business since 1923.", "Our internet address is www.applied.com.  The following documents are available free of charge via hyperlink from  the investor relations area of our website:", "VALUE PROPOSITION We serve a segment of the industrial market that requires technical expertise and service given that our products and  solutions are directly tied to companies\u2019 production and efficiency initiatives.  As such, we believe we are integral to  our customers\u2019 supply chains considering the critical nature and direct exposure our solutions have on our customers\u2019  core production equipment and plant capabilities.  While we compete with other distributors and service providers  offering products and solutions addressing this area of the industrial supply chain, we believe our industry position  and value proposition benefits from relative advantages tied to the following key attributes:", "We focus on helping customers minimize their production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce  overall procurement and maintenance costs, as well as optimize the efficiency and safety of their facilities and  equipment.  A primary focus for our service center network is responding to a critical \u201cbreak-fix\u201d situation, which  requires knowledge of a customer\u2019s facility, localized inventory, timely delivery capabilities, service execution, and  accountability.  In addition, our fluid power, flow control, and automation operations design, engineer, and  integrate solutions focused on making a customer\u2019s operations and equipment more productive, cost-efficient, and", "automated.  We believe our products and solutions are increasingly critical within the industrial supply chain given an  aging and tighter customer labor force, more sophisticated production equipment and processes, a greater focus on  plant floor optimization, and compliance and regulatory requirements.", "INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION We primarily compete within North America which we believe offers significant growth potential given our industry  position, established distribution and sales network, market fragmentation, and customer technical requirements, as  well as opportunities tied to automation and smart technologies.  Growth within our industry is influenced by  broader industrial production and capacity utilization, as well as inflation, labor dynamics, capital spending,  geopolitical events, factory optimization initiatives, changes in industrial equipment technologies, and supply chain  requirements.", "Our principal competitors are specialist and general line distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid  power components and systems, flow control solutions, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, and  automation solutions, and to a lesser extent providers of tools, safety products, and other industrial and  maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational operations.  We also  compete with original equipment manufacturers and integrators.  The identity and number of our competitors vary  throughout the geographic, industry, and product markets we serve.", "STRATEGIC GROWTH AND OPERATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES \u2022 Capture market share across our core service center network.  Our network of service centers located close to industrial companies allows us to respond quickly and effectively to critical MRO situations involving direct production infrastructure and industrial equipment.  We believe more sophisticated industrial production processes and customer labor constraints, as well as increased industrial capacity and manufacturing activity across North America could drive greater demand for our products and services.  We continue to deploy initiatives to further enhance our capabilities across our service center network and gain market share.  These include investments in analytics, strategic account penetration, sales process optimization, talent development, and digital channel solutions, as well as fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded product and service platform across fluid power, flow control, automation, and consumables solutions.", "\u2022 Extend our leading fluid power and flow control position as demand for comprehensive solutions grows.  We provide innovative fluid power and flow control solutions including systems design and engineering, electronic control integration, software programming, valve actuation, compliance consulting, fabrication and assembly, and dedicated service and repair.  Demand for these solutions is increasing across a variety of industrial, off-highway mobile, technology, and process related applications given a greater focus on power consumption, plant efficiency and automation, emissions control, electrification, remote monitoring, advancements in machining, regulatory and compliance standards, and data analytics.  We believe our service and engineering capabilities, shop network, and supplier relationships, combined with our software coding and smart technology application knowledge, are key competitive advantages.  We see opportunities to leverage these advantages across new and underserved geographies, as well as through new commercial solutions that could drive a greater share gain of this market opportunity in coming years.", "We are expanding our position and capabilities focused on advanced factory automation and smart technologies that optimize and connect customers\u2019 industrial supply chains.  We believe we have a favorable position to capture this addressable market given our technical product focus, service capabilities, embedded customer relationships and knowledge across direct production infrastructure and equipment, and existing supplier relationships.  Following several business acquisitions made since fiscal 2020, we now offer products and solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and distribution of machine vision, robotic technologies, and motion control.  Our emerging growth across these areas is diversifying our end-market exposure with greater penetration into technology, life sciences, logistics, and food and beverage industries.", "We expect to continue to expand our automation footprint and capabilities in coming years, as well as pursue opportunities tied to the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT).  We believe this market potential could be meaningful as technology continues to converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end-markets.", "\u2022 Execute ongoing operational initiatives supporting margin profile.  We have a number of initiatives focused on driving operational improvements throughout the organization.  Systems investments in recent years including common ERP platforms are supporting opportunities in leveraging shared services, refining our sales management process, and standardizing pricing and sourcing functions, while we continue to optimize our shop and distribution network and analytics.  We also remain focused on achieving margin synergies across our operations following expansion into flow control and automation.  This includes enhanced pricing functions, leveraging vendor procurement, freight savings, and refined cost management.  Combined with", "OPERATIONS Our distribution and sales network consists of approximately 445 locations in our Service Center Distribution  segment and 123 locations in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  This includes service centers, distribution  centers, and facilities tied to our fluid power, flow control, and automation operations.  Our service centers resemble  local inventory hubs located in close proximity to our customers and focused primarily on MRO related fulfillment  and service needs.  Our fluid power, flow control, and automation locations support technical and shop-oriented  services integral to the more specialized and integrated nature of the products and solutions they provide.  Other  operations and channels we market through include inventory management services for indirect consumable  supplies and digital solutions including our Applied.com website, electronic data interchange (EDI) and other  electronic interfaces with customers' technology platforms and plant maintenance systems.", "Our distribution centers provide daily service to our service centers, helping replenish inventories and shipping  products directly to customers where appropriate.  An efficient supply chain and timely delivery of our products is  vital to our value proposition particularly when customers require products for emergency repairs.  We utilize  dedicated third-party transportation providers, our own delivery vehicles, as well as surface and air common carrier  and courier services.  Customers may also pick up items at our service centers.  We maintain product inventory levels  at each service center tailored to the local market.  These inventories consist of standard items as well as other items  specific to local customer demand.", "Our operations are primarily based in the U.S. where 86% of our fiscal 2021 sales were generated.  We also have  international operations, the largest of which is in Canada (8% of fiscal 2021 sales) with the balance (6% of fiscal  2021 sales) in Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.", "SUPPLIERS We are a leading distributor of products including bearings, power transmission products, engineered fluid power  components and systems, specialty flow control solutions, advanced automation products, industrial rubber  products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.", "These products are generally supplied to us by manufacturers whom we serve as a non-exclusive distributor.  The  suppliers also may provide us product training, as well as sales and marketing support.  Authorizations to represent  particular suppliers and product lines vary by geographic region, particularly for our fluid power, flow control, and  automation businesses.  We believe our supplier relationships are generally good, and many have existed for  decades.  The disruption of relationships with certain suppliers, or the disruption of their operations, could adversely  affect our business.", "Our product suppliers typically confine their direct sales activities to large-volume transactions, mainly with large  original equipment manufacturers.  The suppliers generally do not sell maintenance and repair products directly to  the customer, but instead refer the customer to us or another distributor.", "MARKETS  We purchase from thousands of product manufacturers and resell the products to thousands of customers in a wide  variety of industries, including agriculture and food processing, cement, chemicals and petrochemicals, fabricated  metals, forest products, industrial machinery and equipment, life sciences, mining, oil and gas, primary metals,  technology, transportation, and utilities, as well as to government entities.  Customers range from very large  businesses, with which we may have multiple-location relationships, to very small ones.  We are not significantly  dependent on a single customer or group of customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on  our business as a whole, and no single customer accounts for more than 4% of our fiscal 2021 sales.", "We expect to pursue additional acquisitions aligned with our growth strategy and long-term financial targets.", "We view acquisitions as an important growth consideration given high fragmentation, greater operational and technical requirements, and supplier authorizations within the markets we serve.  We believe our sourcing strategy, cash generation capabilities, industry relationships, and operational discipline are key to our acquisition success.  In addition, dedicated corporate teams and related support functions provide strategic oversight of critical work streams and integration execution, which we believe enhances our ability to capture synergistic value.  Over the near to intermediate-term, our acquisition priorities are focused on continuing to expand our current offerings, while further enhancing our technical differentiation and value-added service capabilities.", "SERVICES We believe part of our success, differentiation, and competitive advantage is attributable to the comprehensive set of  services and solutions we provide, which we view as critical given the technical nature and application of our core  product offering of motion, power, control, and automation technologies.  The foundation of our service capabilities  lies with our technically oriented associate team, which includes engineers, industry segment specialists, mechanics,  technicians, fluid power specialists, as well as our systems, shop network, and supplier relationships.  We believe  knowledge and service capabilities relating to our core product offering are increasingly needed across our customer  base given skilled labor constraints within their operations, maintenance requirements, and more sophisticated plant  equipment and processes.  Our services and solutions help customers minimize production downtime, improve  machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs.  By providing high levels of service,  product and industry expertise, and technical support, while at the same time offering product breadth and  competitive pricing, we believe we develop stronger, longer-lasting, and more profitable customer relationships.    See the Reportable Segments section below for more detail on the various service solutions we provide to customers.", "REPORTABLE SEGMENTS We report results of operations in two segments: 1) Service Center Based Distribution, and 2) Fluid Power & Flow  Control.  In fiscal 2021, our Service Center Based Distribution segment represented 68% of our total sales, while our  Fluid Power & Flow Control segment represented 32% of our total sales.", "Service Center Based Distribution.  Our Service Center Based Distribution segment includes our legacy MRO  distribution operations across North America, Australia, and New Zealand.  This business operates through local  service centers and distribution centers with a focus on providing products and services addressing the maintenance  and repair of motion control infrastructure and production equipment.  Products primarily include industrial  bearings, motors, belting, drives, couplings, pumps, linear motion products, hydraulic and pneumatic components,  filtration supplies, and hoses, as well as other related supplies for general operational needs of customers\u2019 machinery  and equipment.", "Fluid Power & Flow Control.  Our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment includes our operations that specialize in  distributing, engineering, designing, integrating, and repairing hydraulic and pneumatic fluid power technologies,  and engineered flow control products and services.  We believe we are the largest distributor and solutions provider  of fluid power and industrial flow control products and solutions in the U.S.  The segment also includes our  operations that focus on advanced automation solutions, including machine vision, robotics, motion control, and  smart technologies.", "Our specialty flow control operations provide highly engineered process flow control products, solutions, and  services.  Products include pumps, valves, fittings, hoses, process instrumentation, actuators, and filtration supplies  which are used to control the flow of liquids and gases in mission-critical industrial applications.  Our flow control  products and services are focused on MRO related applications; OEMs; and engineering, procurement, and  construction (EPC) firms across a variety of industries including chemicals, steel, power, oil and gas, pulp and paper,  life sciences, pharmaceuticals, food and beverage, and general industrials.  Similar to our fluid power operations, our  flow control offering includes technical service capabilities such as flow control systems integration, repair services,  valve actuation, process instrumentation, pipe and hose fabrication, and compliance consulting.", "Our advanced automation operations provide solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and  distribution of machine vision, collaborative robots, mobile robots, RFID, industrial networking, and machine learning  technologies for OEMs, machine builders, integrators, and other industrial and technology end users.  Products and  solutions are marketed across a variety of industries including technology, medical, life sciences, logistics, consumer,  and general industrial.  Our automation business helps customers develop, produce, and integrate machine and  facility automation solutions using comprehensive technology and application knowledge.  A core element of our  strategy and value proposition within automation is our value-added and engineered solution capabilities, enabling  us to provide in-depth consultative, design, engineering, assembly, testing, and support services for various customer  requirements.", "HUMAN CAPITAL We attribute our business success to talented, dedicated employee associates who live our Core Values of integrity,  respect, customer focus, commitment to excellence, accountability, innovation, continuous improvement, and  teamwork.", "Associate Development.  We strive to attract, retain, and develop a diverse group of high-performing associates,  empowering them to achieve their potential and providing them opportunities to test their skills, increase their  responsibilities, and advance their careers.  Applied\u2019s commitment to associate development is reflected in our  investments in a learning management system (offering a wide array of internal facilitated training courses, supplier  product training, and other third-party courses), a modern social learning platform, and in-person training through  which associates can continually expand their knowledge base and position themselves to achieve their professional  goals.", "Diversity and Inclusion.  We are committed to a diverse and inclusive workplace that is respectful to all associates  and believe this serves as a cornerstone for a strong company.  We employ multiple initiatives to recruit, train, and  advance diverse associates.  In the area of recruitment, for example, we engage in on-campus events and targeted  recruitment strategies that increase our exposure to diverse populations in order to promote enhanced diversity in  our hiring.", "Health and Safety.  Applied is also committed to the safety and well-being of our associates.", "From the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we focused on protecting our associates\u2019 health and safety, while  ensuring our continued capability to serve our customers.  As a provider of critical parts, services, and solutions to  essential industries, Applied remained open for business.  We implemented significant changes to ensure a safe  operating environment for our associates and to protect our customers and communities, including remote work as  feasible, social distancing protocols, heightened sanitation procedures, and masking policies.  BACKLOG AND SEASONALITY  Backlog orders are not material to our business as a whole, although they are a more important factor for our fluid  power, flow control, and automation businesses.  Our business has exhibited minor seasonality.  In particular, sales  per day during the first half of our fiscal year have historically been slightly lower than the second half due, in part,  to the impact of customer plant shutdowns, summer vacations and holidays.", "PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES, AND LICENSES  Customer recognition of our service marks and trade names, including Applied Industrial Technologies\u00ae, Applied\u00ae,  and AIT\u00ae, is an important contributing factor to our sales.  Patents and licenses are not of material importance to  our business.", "RAW MATERIALS AND GENERAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS   Our operations are dependent on general industrial and economic conditions.  We would be adversely affected by  the unavailability of raw materials to our suppliers, prolonged labor disputes experienced by suppliers or customers,  or by events or conditions that have an adverse effect on industrial activity generally in the markets we serve or on  key customer industries.", "WORKING CAPITAL Our working capital position is discussed in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by reference.", "In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could  materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the  only risks facing the Company.  Certain risks are identified below in Item 7 under the caption \u201cManagement's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\u201d  This information is incorporated here by  reference.", "Our business depends heavily on the operating levels of our customers and the factors that affect them,  including general economic conditions.  The markets for our products and services are subject to conditions or  events that affect demand for goods and materials that our customers produce.  Consequently, demand for our  products and services has been and will continue to be influenced by most of the same factors that affect demand  for and production of customers' goods and materials.", "When customers or prospective customers reduce production levels because of lower demand, increased supply,  higher costs, tight credit conditions, unfavorable currency exchange rates, adverse trade policies, foreign  competition, other competitive disadvantage, offshoring of production, or other reasons, their need for our products  and services diminishes.  Selling prices and terms of sale come under pressure, adversely affecting the profitability  and the durability of customer relationships, and credit losses may increase.  Inventory management becomes more  difficult in times of economic uncertainty.  Volatile economic and credit conditions also make it more difficult for us,  as well as our customers and suppliers, to forecast and plan future business activities.", "The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto continue to impact  our results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are uncertain  and cannot be predicted.  The COVID-19 pandemic created significant volatility, uncertainty, and economic  disruption.  The effects of the pandemic resulted in lost or delayed sales to us, and we experienced business  disruptions as we modified our business practices (including travel, work locations, and cancellation of physical  participation in meetings).  While the pandemic\u2019s impact on social and economic conditions has subsided, the extent  to which it will continue to impact our results of operations and financial condition will depend on evolving factors  that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the following: the duration, spread, and severity of the  pandemic, including due to virus variants, in the countries in which we operate; responsive measures taken by  governmental authorities, businesses, and individuals; the effect on our customers and their demand for our  products and services; the effect on our suppliers and disruptions to the global supply chain; our ability to sell and  provide our products and services and otherwise operate effectively, including as a result of travel restrictions and  associates working from home; disruptions to our operations resulting from associate illness; restrictions or  disruptions to, or reduced availability of, transportation; customers\u2019 ability to pay for our services and products;  closures of our facilities or those of our customers or suppliers; the impact of reduced customer demand on  purchasing incentives we earn from suppliers; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating  conditions can resume.  In addition, the pandemic\u2019s impact on the economy could affect the proper functioning of  financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates, product and energy costs, and interest rates.  The  pandemic\u2019s effects may also amplify the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,  and may continue to materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or  stock price.", "Consolidation in our customers' and suppliers' industries could adversely affect our business and financial  results.  Consolidation continues among our product suppliers and customers.  As customer industries consolidate  or customers otherwise aggregate their purchasing power, a greater proportion of our sales could be derived from  large volume contracts, which could adversely impact margins.  Consolidation among customers can produce  changes in their purchasing strategies, potentially shifting blocks of business among competing distributors and  contributing to volatility in our sales and pressure on prices.  Similarly, continued consolidation among suppliers  could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable pricing and other commercial terms for our inventory purchases.   There can be no assurance we will be able to take advantage of consolidation trends.", "An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings.  We operate in a highly competitive industry.  The  industry remains fragmented, but is consolidating.  Our principal competitors are specialist and general line  distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, flow control solutions,  automation technologies, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, oilfield  supplies, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and  multinational operations, and can include catalog and e-commerce companies.  Competition is largely focused in the  local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities, and price.  Existing competitors have, and future competitors may have, greater financial or other resources than we do,  broader or more appealing product or service offerings, greater market presence, stronger relationships with key  suppliers or customers, or better name recognition.  If existing or future competitors seek to gain or to retain market  share by aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, or otherwise through competitive advantage, our sales and  profitability could be adversely affected.  Our success will also be affected by our ability to continue to provide  competitive offerings as customer preferences or demands evolve, for example with respect to product and service  types, brands, quality, or prices.  Technological evolution or other factors can render product and service offerings  obsolete, potentially impairing our competitive position and our inventory values.", "Our operations outside the United States increase our exposure to global economic and political  conditions and currency exchange volatility.  Foreign operations contributed 14% of our sales in 2021.  This  presence outside the U.S. increases risks associated with exposure to more volatile economic conditions, political  instability, cultural and legal differences in conducting business (including corrupt practices), economic and trade  policy actions, and currency exchange fluctuations.", "Our business could be adversely affected if we do not successfully execute our strategies to grow sales and  earnings.  We have numerous strategies and initiatives to grow sales, leveraging the breadth of our product  offering, supplier relationships, and value-added technical capabilities to differentiate us and improve our", "competitive position.  We also continually seek to enhance gross margins, manage costs, and otherwise improve  earnings.  Many of our activities target improvements to the consistency of our operating practices across our  hundreds of locations.  If we do not implement these initiatives effectively, or if for other reasons they are  unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected.", "Loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, or changes in distribution programs could  adversely affect our sales and earnings.  Our business depends on maintaining an immediately available supply of  various products to meet customer demand.  Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding,  but are terminable by either party.  The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability  of their products, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and have a material adverse effect on our business.  Supply interruptions could arise from raw materials shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity or utilization to  meet demand, financial problems or insolvency, trade issues, labor disputes, public health emergencies, weather  conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control.", "Changes in customer or product mix and downward pressure on sales prices could cause our gross profit  percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Because we serve thousands of customers in many end markets, and offer  millions of products, with varying profitability levels, changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross  profit percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Downward pressure on sales prices could also cause our gross profit  percentage to fluctuate or decline.  We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of deflation,  pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition.", "Our ability to transact business is highly reliant on information systems.  A disruption or security breach  could materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operation.  We depend on information  systems to, among other things, process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections,  purchase products, manage accounts payable processes, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost- effective operations, provide superior service to customers, conduct business communications, and compile financial  results.  A serious, prolonged disruption of our information systems, due to man-made or natural causes, including  power or telecommunications outage, or breach in security, could materially impair fundamental business processes  and increase expenses, decrease sales, or otherwise reduce earnings.", "Because of our reliance on information systems, we are vulnerable to the growing threat of damage or intrusion  from computer viruses or other cyber-attacks, including ransomware and business e-mail compromise, on our  systems.  Despite precautions taken to prevent or mitigate the risks of such incidents, breaches of our systems could  not only cause business disruption, but could also result in the theft of funds, the theft, loss, or disclosure of", "Acquisitions are a key component of our anticipated growth.  We may not be able to identify or to  complete future acquisitions, to integrate them effectively into our operations, or to realize their  anticipated benefits.  Many industries we serve are mature.  As a result, acquisitions of businesses have been  important to our growth.  While we wish to continue to acquire businesses, we may not be able to identify and to  negotiate suitable acquisitions, to obtain financing for them on satisfactory terms, or otherwise to complete  acquisitions.  In addition, existing and future competitors, and private equity firms, increasingly compete with us for  acquisitions, which can increase prices and reduce the number of suitable opportunities; the acquisitions they make  can also adversely impact our market position.", "We seek acquisition opportunities that complement and expand our operations.  However, substantial costs, delays,  or other difficulties related to integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business or financial results.  For  example, we could face significant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating information systems, personnel,  and operations, and implementing procedures and controls in a timely and efficient manner.", "An interruption of operations at our headquarters or distribution centers, or in our means of transporting  product, could adversely impact our business.  Our business depends on maintaining operating activity at our  headquarters and distribution centers, and being able to receive and deliver product in a timely manner.  A serious,  prolonged interruption due to power or telecommunications outage, security incident, terrorist attack, public health  emergency, earthquake, extreme weather events, other natural disasters, fire, flood, transportation disruption, or  other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.", "Our business depends on our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain qualified employees.  Our  success depends on hiring, developing, motivating, and retaining key employees, including executive, managerial,  sales, professional, and other personnel.  We may have difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel.  In  addition, we may have difficulty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against  us.  With respect to sales and customer service positions in particular, we greatly benefit from having employees who  are familiar with the products and services we sell, and their applications, as well as with our customer and supplier", "relationships.  The loss of key employees or our failure to attract and retain other qualified workers could disrupt or  adversely affect our business.  In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased competition  for employees, shortages of qualified workers, higher employee turnover (including through retirement as the  workforce ages), or increased employee compensation or benefit costs.", "We believe having a local presence is important to serving our customers, so we maintain service centers and other  operations in local markets throughout the countries in which we operate.  At June 30, 2021, we owned real  properties at 115 locations and leased 418 locations.  Certain properties house more than one operation.", "The properties in Baldwinsville, Newark, Midland, and Stafford are used in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Fontana and Longview properties are used in both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and the Fluid  Power & Flow Control segment.  The remaining properties are used in the Service Center Based Distribution  segment.", "We consider our properties generally sufficient to meet our requirements for office space and inventory stocking.", "When opening new operations, we have tended to lease rather than purchase real property.  We do not consider  any service center, distribution center, or shop property to be material, because we believe that, if it becomes  necessary or desirable to relocate an operation, other suitable property could be found.", "In addition to operating locations, we own or lease certain properties which in the aggregate are not material and  are either for sale, lease, or sublease to third parties due to a relocation or closing.  We also may lease or sublease to  others unused portions of buildings.", "Fiscal 2021 ended on a positive note as underlying demand continued to strengthen across both segments during  the fourth quarter reflecting sustained recovery in our core end-markets and momentum across our internal growth  initiatives.", "We are managing inflation well and controlling costs, while benefiting from productivity enhancements.  Fiscal 2022 is off to a positive start with organic sales through early August up by a high-teens percent over the prior  year and customer indications signaling sustained demand momentum.", "Applied monitors several economic indices that have been key indicators for industrial economic activity in the United  States.  These include the Industrial Production (IP) and Manufacturing Capacity Utilization (MCU) indices published  by the Federal Reserve Board and the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) published by the Institute for Supply  Management (ISM).  Historically, our performance correlates well with the MCU, which measures productivity and  calculates a ratio of actual manufacturing output versus potential full capacity output.  When manufacturing plants  are running at a high rate of capacity, they tend to wear out machinery and require replacement parts.", "We evaluate the recoverability of our slow-moving and inactive inventories at least quarterly.  We estimate the  recoverable cost of such inventory by product type while considering factors such as its age, historic and current  demand trends, the physical condition of the inventory, as well as assumptions regarding future demand.  Our ability  to recover our cost for slow moving or obsolete inventory can be affected by such factors as general market  conditions, future customer demand and relationships with suppliers.  A significant portion of the products we hold  in inventory have long shelf lives and are not highly susceptible to obsolescence.", "Important risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to the operations levels of our  customers and the economic factors that affect them; risks relating to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic;  changes in the prices for products and services relative to the cost of providing them; reduction in supplier inventory  purchase incentives; loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, changes in supplier distribution  programs, inability of suppliers to perform, and transportation disruptions; the cost of products and energy and  other operating costs; changes in customer preferences for products and services of the nature and brands sold by  us; changes in customer procurement policies and practices; competitive pressures; our reliance on information  systems and risks relating to their proper functioning, the security of those systems, and the data stored in or  transmitted through them; the impact of economic conditions on the collectability of trade receivables; reduced  demand for our products in targeted markets due to reasons including consolidation in customer industries; our  ability to retain and attract qualified sales and customer service personnel and other skilled executives, managers and  professionals; our ability to identify and complete acquisitions, integrate them effectively, and realize their  anticipated benefits; the variability, timing and nature of new business opportunities including acquisitions, alliances,  customer relationships, and supplier authorizations; the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in connection  with acquisitions; our ability to access capital markets as needed on reasonable terms; disruption of operations at our  headquarters or distribution centers; risks and uncertainties associated with our foreign operations, including volatile  economic conditions, political instability, cultural and legal differences, and currency exchange fluctuations; the  potential for goodwill and intangible asset impairment; changes in accounting policies and practices; our ability to  maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; organizational changes within the Company; risks related  to legal proceedings to which we are a party; potentially adverse government regulation, legislation, or policies, both  enacted and under consideration, including with respect to federal tax policy, international trade, data privacy and  security, and government contracting; and the occurrence of extraordinary events (including prolonged labor  disputes, power outages, telecommunication outages, terrorist acts, public health emergency, earthquakes, extreme  weather events, other natural disasters, fires, floods, and accidents).  Other factors and unanticipated events could  also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.", "Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the \u201cCompany\u201d or \u201cApplied\u201d) is a leading value-added  distributor and technical solutions provider of industrial motion, fluid power, flow control, automation technologies,  and related maintenance supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve  MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all  industrial markets through our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  Although  the Company does not generally manufacture the products it sells, it does assemble and repair certain products and  systems."]}