SUSTAINABLE  IMPACT REPORT 2018 
This report includes HP s performance data through  FY2018 (which ended October 31, 2018), unless stated  otherwise. It also describes HP s Sustainable Impact  policies, programs, and goals. 
The information in this report is current as of the date of  its initial publication. The report has not been updated to  reflect any changes since that date, including any changes  to HP s business or strategy. HP assumes no obligation  and does not intend to update this report to reflect any  such changes. 
The performance data in this report covers 100% of   HP s global business operations and or revenue, as of   HP s most recently completed fiscal year, unless   stated otherwise. 
All references to years are to HP s fiscal year, which   ends October 31, 2018, unless stated otherwise. 
All references to dollars are to U.S. dollars.  
ABOUT THIS DOCUMENT 
Part 1: EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  pages 5 to 45 
This section provides a high-level  overview of our Sustainable Impact  strategy and progress, and vision  for the future. 
Part 2: DETAILED DISCLOSURES   pages 46 to 146 
This section provides in-depth  management and performance  information across the broad   range of environmental, social,   and governance issues. 
Additional information is available on our   Sustainable Impact website. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 2 
HP Inc. s vision is   to create technology   that makes life better   for everyone,   everywhere. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 3 
80 years ago, Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard cleared  out a small California garage to launch a business.  With all the funding they could muster   a grand  total of  538 dollars   they set out to create a  different kind of company.  
One that pushes the boundaries of human potential  and progress. An engine of innovation that not only  creates value for its customers and shareholders,  but also for society.  
This mindset was decades ahead of its time, and it has  never been more important. Because, while we are seeing  unprecedented technological innovation across industries,  we re also confronting serious societal challenges    from climate change and other threats to our planet, to  persistent inequality that prevents far too many people  and communities from reaching their full potential.  
Companies have critically important roles to play in solving  these problems   not simply because it s the right thing  to do, but because it s a business imperative. A growing  number of our customers, consumers and employees are  passionate about the environment and social justice, and  they expect companies like ours to lead with purpose. 
Across HP, our people and our partners are doing just that    and it s having a measurable impact on our results. In  2018, our Sustainable Impact programs drove more than   900 million  of new revenue, a 35 percent increase versus  prior year.  
LETTER FROM   PRESIDENT AND CEO " Our customers, consumers and employees are  passionate about the environment and social  justice, and they expect companies like ours to  lead with purpose." 
Yet while we are making significant progress, we are  nowhere near the end of our journey. We are doubling  down on our commitments and seeking new ways to turn  the challenges of today into the opportunities of tomorrow.  
This requires us to set our sights high. It s not enough  to simply check a box and move on. It s about creating  technology that is truly in the service of humanity.  It s about always aspiring to produce something beyond  products and profits. 
At HP, we aspire to create a world without waste. From  our supply chain, to our operations, to our technology and  service offerings, we are transforming our entire business  for a circular, low-carbon economy. We are reinventing  how we design, deliver and recover our products to enable  our customers to drive growth while shrinking their carbon  footprint. And we are disrupting the global manufacturing  sector with 3D printing technology that s making  companies more competitive, productive and sustainable.  
We also know that, to achieve this vision, we must be  powered by diversity and inclusion. We are proud  to have the most diverse Board of Directors of any U.S.  technology company and be amongst the top technology  companies for women in executive positions. Attracting  the brightest talent and building a culture where people  from all walks of life can contribute and flourish is a  cornerstone of our success. This work is not confined to  the walls of HP. We work hard to ensure our products are  
manufactured with respect and care for the people who  make them, and we have provided skills and well-being  training to more than a quarter-million workers worldwide.  
And, as we push forward on our journey, we ll be  investing to equip and empower communities to  thrive. We believe education is a fundamental human  right. We have now enabled better learning outcomes  for 21 million people around the world, well on our way  to achieving our goal of 100 million by 2025. At the  same time, our people are investing their time, talents  and resources in their local communities. By 2025, HP  employees will log 1.5 million volunteer hours.  
Across HP, we are reinventing our company to meet  the evolving needs of our business and the world we  share. We will continue to adapt to changes and rise to  challenges. And, together with our partners, we will lead  a sustainability revolution fueled by technology.  Afterall, that is what innovation is all about   finding  solutions that benefit our business and society as a whole. 
Best Regards,  
Dion Weisler  President and Chief Executive Officer, HP Inc. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 4 
EXECUTIVE  SUMMARY 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 5 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
8  ABOUT HP 
9  BUSINESS STRATEGY 
12  GLOBAL MEGATRENDS 
10  BUSINESS MODEL 
11  RECOGNITION 
Business   Overview 
15   SUSTAINABLE IMPACT   STRATEGY 
16   SUSTAINABLE IMPACT   GOALS   PROGRESS 
18  CIRCULAR ECONOMY 
22  CLIMATE ACTION 
24  FEATURE  
  CLOSING THE LOOP   
  ON PLASTICS 
27  FEATURE  
  FOURTH INDUSTRIAL   
  REVOLUTION 
Reinventing   Impact 
32  HUMAN RIGHTS 
38  EDUCATION 
43  THE HP WAY 
29  FEATURE  
  ZERO DEFORESTATION 
33  SUPPLY CHAIN 
35  DIVERSITY   INCLUSION 
40  LOCAL IMPACT 
42  INTEGRITY 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 6 
Business   Overview 
8  ABOUT HP 
9  BUSINESS STRATEGY 
10  BUSINESS MODEL 
11  RECOGNITION 
12  GLOBAL MEGATRENDS 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 7 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW   ABOUT HP 
HP Inc. creates   technology that makes  life better for everyone  everywhere every person,  every organization, and  every community around  the globe. 
Through our portfolio of printers, PCs,   mobile devices, solutions, and services, we engineer  experiences that amaze. 
KEY FACTS  
Dion Weisler   President and Chief Executive  Officer, HP Inc.  
Chip Bergh   Chairman of the Board  
Incorporated   in the State of Delaware,   United States  
Fortune 100 company 
Ticker symbol HPQ   on the New York Stock Exchange  
Corporate headquarters  Palo Alto, California,   United States  
Approximately   55,000   employees globally 1 
8 HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 
Driving long-term shareholder value 
LEADERSHIP   IN CORE 
ACCELERATE   IN GROWTH 
CAPTURE   THE FUTURE 
To successfully execute this strategy, we must emphasize the  aspects of our core business where demand remains strong,  identify and capitalize on natural areas of growth, and innovate  and develop new products and services that will enable us to  expand beyond our existing technology categories. 
  Our strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio   of products and services to meet the demands of a continually  changing technological landscape and to offset certain areas   of industry decline.  
BUSINESS OVERVIEW   BUSINESS STRATEGY 
Our Strategy  
  Revitalize consumer   Drive commercial 
  Disrupt copier market   Accelerate graphics 
  Lead 3D printing 
Leading with Sustainable Impact 
   Create new   immersive categories  
personal systems  
  Lead commercial   Grow premium 
   Drive commercial  transformation 
Predictable cash flow   and return of capital 
Sustainable growth   opportunities over time 
Long-term   value creation 
WHAT TO EXPECT 
FISCAL YEAR 2018   HIGHLIGHTS 
 58.5BILLION  in net revenue. 
 4.5BILLION 
of net cash provided by operations,    3.5 billion of which was returned   to stockholders in the form of   share repurchases and dividends. 
26,000   registered patents.2 
250,000   channel partners. 
 1.4 BILLION  R D spend. 
  See our full financial performance.. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 9 
How We Deliver Value 
Inputs in 2018   
Skills, expertise, competencies,   and capabilities of HP s approximately   55,000 employees globally3 
12,000 supplier factory workers engaged in   skills-building and wellbeing programs 
INTELLECTUAL  1.4 billion invested in R D  
Market and customer insights 
Total assets:  34.6 billion4 
Long-term debt:  4.5 billion5 
  MANUFACTURED HP manufacturing plants 
100 s of production suppliers  
589,217 MWh of electricity used   in global operations, including   47% renewable electricity use6 
Approximately 1 million tonnes   of materials in our products and packaging7 
21,250 tonnes of recycled plastic   used in HP products  
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP 
Employee, supplier, and partner   codes of conduct and engagement 
 7.12 million in HP cash and   product contributions8 
140,000 employee volunteer hours 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW   HP BUSINESS MODEL 
Key stakeholders:   Suppliers and supply chain workers 
Key activities:   Raw materials extraction,   manufacturing, final assembly,   transportation 
REPAIR, REUSE    RECYCLING                 
Key stakeholders:  Customers, channel partners,   recycling vendors 
Key activities:  Product take-back,  repair, remanufacturing,   re-marketing,   materials recycling 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
As we drive progress on our business strategy,  we remain committed to leveraging our  breadth and scale to create powerful change  and sustainable impact. 
OPERATIONS 
Key stakeholders:   HP employees and local communities 
Key activities:   Marketing, employee development   and engagement, facilities operation,   volunteerism, and giving 
         PRODUCTS    SERVICES 
Key stakeholders: Customers,  channel and retail partners,  regulators, global communities 
Key activities: R D, product  design, product stewardship,  marketing, sales and channel  engagement, channel  partnerships, product delivery,  services, and support  
Value created   in 2018    
88% of employees feel HP values diversity9 
1.66 million training hours,   an average of 30 hours per employee 
73% engagement rate   among HP employees10 
INTELLECTUAL 26,000  patents11 
  FINANCIAL Net revenue:  58.5 billion  Net earnings:  5.3 billion  Net cash provided by operations:  4.5 billion  Share re-purchases and dividends:    3.5 billion 
MANUFACTURED 
1 printer and 1.7 PCs shipped per second   100 million products delivered each year12 
ECO declarations covering 93% of revenue13 
NATURAL 41% decrease in Scope 1 and 2   GHG emissions, since 2015 
5% increase in materials use intensity   for personal systems products compared to  2017, and 14% decrease versus 2016 
12% reduction in materials use  intensity for printers compared to 2017,   and 16% decrease versus 2016 
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP 
Customer, partner, and supplier   retention and satisfaction 
Better learning outcomes for more   than 21 million students and adult learners  through 2018 
Improved resilience in communities   where we live, work, and do business 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 10 
RATINGS AND RANKINGS 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW   RECOGNITION 
100 Most Sustainable   U.S. companies 
HP is recognized as   one of the world s most  sustainable companies 
Diversity and   Inclusion Index 
Listed for nine   straight years 
 900  MILLION    in new revenue in 2018 where  Sustainable Impact was a key  differentiator.14  
BUSINESS IMPACT 
Year-over-year increase in value  of deal wins where Sustainable  Impact was a key differentiator.15 
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
of employees agree that HP   is socially and environmentally   responsible.16 
of employees agree that   HP values diversity.17 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 11 
At HP, we believe Megatrends will have   a sustained, transformative impact   on the world in the years ahead      on businesses, societies, economies,  cultures, and our personal lives.  
By studying these forces and their effects on business and society,   HP is better able to develop and deliver solutions that meet and exceed  changing customer needs, and also help to address some of the most  pressing challenges and transformative opportunities on the horizon. 
Read more at HPMegatrends.com. 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW   GLOBAL MEGATRENDS 
Global   Megatrends   Shaping our  Future 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 12 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW   GLOBAL MEGATRENDS 
Global Megatrends 
Incomes are rising for   most people around the   world, but inequality has   also been increasing 
RAPID   URBANIZATION 
By 2030, there will be   8.5 billion people18 on earth 
ECONOMIC   IMPACT 
By 2050, 68% of people   will live in cities19 
Asia is expected to drive   two-thirds of global income  growth by 203525  
RISE   OF ASIA 
By 2025, Millennials and Gen Z   will make up 75% of the   global workforce20 
CHANGING   DEMOGRAPHICS 
By 2050, twice as many   people will be over age 65    as today, globally21 
Changing demographics and   a shrinking working age  population will drive a   growing labor gap 
JOBS     LABOR 
From 2017 to 2030, the number  of connected IoT devices will  increase by 12% per year on  average, to 125 billion22 
HYPER   GLOBALIZATION 
By 2025, nearly half of the  world s big companies will  be headquartered in today s  emerging markets23 
Greater automation will help  to address the labor gap while  changing the nature of work  and requiring new skills and  lifelong learning 
AUTOMATION     EDUCATION 
In 30 years, processing   power per dollar will increase   a billion-fold 
By 2022, artificial intelligence  and robotics will create   almost 60 million more jobs  than they replace24 
ACCELERATED   INNOVATION 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 13 
ENERGY     SUSTAINABILITY 
By 2050, we would need   2.3 Earths to sustain the  resource demands of our  global population26 
15   SUSTAINABLE IMPACT   STRATEGY 
16   SUSTAINABLE IMPACT   GOALS   PROGRESS 
18  CIRCULAR ECONOMY 
22  CLIMATE ACTION 
24  FEATURE  
  CLOSING THE LOOP   
  ON PLASTICS 
27  FEATURE  
  FOURTH INDUSTRIAL   
  REVOLUTION 
Reinventing   Impact 
32  HUMAN RIGHTS 
38  EDUCATION 
43  THE HP WAY 
29  FEATURE  
  ZERO DEFORESTATION 
33  SUPPLY CHAIN 
35  DIVERSITY   INCLUSION 
40  LOCAL IMPACT 
42  INTEGRITY 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 14 
HP's Sustainable Impact Strategy 
REINVENTING IMPACT   SUSTAINABLE IMPACT STRATEGY 
Create lasting, positive change for the  planet, our people, and communities 
  Enable our customers to invent   the future through our   most sustainable portfolio of   products and services. 
Transform our entire business   to drive a more efficient, circular,   and low-carbon economy. 
Empower all people who help bring our  products to market to thrive at work,   at home, and in their communities. 
UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) 
Embed diversity and inclusion   in everything we do. 
Sustainable Impact is at the heart of our reinvention journey     fueling   our innovation and growth, strengthening our business for the long term,   and enabling us to develop and deliver the best solutions for our customers. 
  Improve the vitality and resilience   of our local communities. 
Unlock educational and   economic opportunity through   the power of technology. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 15 
HP is driving progress toward a more sustainable   future. We set bold, long-term goals and focus our   strategy where we can have the greatest impact.  
REINVENTING IMPACT   GOALS AND PROGRESS 
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 
People Planet 
Reduce HP product use  GHG emissions intensity   by 30% by 2025 
37% of goal achieved 
Use 30% post-consumer  recycled content plastic  across HP s personal systems  and print product portfolio  by 2025 
23% of goal achieved 
Recycle 1.2 million tonnes  of hardware and supplies   by 2025 
33% of goal achieved 
For additional details, see the following page. 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
40% of goal achieved Help suppliers cut 2 million  tonnes of CO2 equivalent  emissions by 2025 
58% of goal achieved 
Achieve zero deforestation  associated with HP brand  paper and paper-based  product packaging by 2020 
100% of goal achieved for   HP brand paper 
65% of goal achieved for  paper-based packaging 
Reduce supply chain GHG  emissions intensity by 10%   by 2025 
0% of goal achieved 
OPERATIONS 
Use 60% renewable  electricity in global  operations by 2025 
78% of goal achieved 
Reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG  emissions by 60% by 2025 
68% of goal achieved 
Reduce potable water  consumption in global  operations by 15% by 2025 
We measure success by how our actions and solutions help  create a more sustainable future for our planet, people, and the  communities where we live, work, and do business.  
17% of goal achieved 
Develop skills and   improve wellbeing   of 500,000 factory   workers by 2025 
Enroll 1 million   HP LIFE users by 2025 
51% of goal achieved 
Enable better learning  outcomes for 100 million  people by 2025 
21% of goal achieved 
Double factory  participation in  sustainability   programs by 2025 
Contribute 1.5 million  cumulative employee  volunteer hours by 2025 
19% of goal achieved 
Contribute  100 million  in HP Foundation and  employee community   giving by 2025 
23% of goal achieved 
0% of goal achieved 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 16 
REINVENTING IMPACT   GOALS AND PROGRESS DETAILS 
Help suppliers cut 2 million tonnes of carbon dioxide  equivalent (CO2e) emissions between   2010 and 2025.31 
Reduce potable water consumption in global  operations by 15% by 2025, compared to 2015. 
Recycle 1.2 million tonnes of hardware and supplies  by 2025, since the beginning of 2016. 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
Achieve zero deforestation associated with HP brand  paper and paper-based product packaging by 2020.29 
Use 100% renewable electricity in global operations  by 2035. 
Reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from  global operations by 60% by 2025, compared to  2015. 
Use 60% renewable electricity in global operations  by 2025. 7, 13 
Goal Progress in 2018 UN SDGs 
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 
Use 30% post-consumer recycled content plastic  across HP s personal systems and print product  portfolio by 2025.27  
OPERATIONS 
Reduce HP product use GHG emissions intensity by  30% by 2025, compared to 2015.28 
Reduce first-tier production supplier and product  transportation related GHG emissions intensity by  10% by 2025, compared to 2015.30 
HP s global operations produced 229,600 tonnes of  Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions, 41% less than  our 2015 baseline. Learn more. 
Through the end of 2018, we achieved 7%  post-consumer recycled content plastic use in  HP personal systems and print products.  Learn more. 
Through the end of 2018, we achieved an   11% decrease. Learn more. 7, 12, 13 
Reached 395,200 tonnes recycled through the end  of 2018. Learn more. 12 
100% achieved for HP brand paper in 2016 and  maintained that performance through 2018.  Reached 65% for paper-based product packaging.  Learn more. 
Through December 2017 (the most recent year data  is available), GHG emissions intensity increased by  6% compared to 2015. Learn more. 
Through 2017, suppliers have avoided 1.16 million  tonnes of CO2e emissions. Learn more. 13 
HP s global operations procured and generated  275,944 MWh of renewable electricity and  attributes, equivalent to 47% of our global electricity  consumption. Learn more. 
Potable water consumption equaled 2,997,000 cubic  meters globally, 6% less than in 2015.   Learn more. 
12, 13, 15 
 The HP Foundation is a nonprofit, 501(c)3 organization.  
programs by 2025, compared to 2015. 
Enroll 1 million HP LIFE users between 2016   
Contribute 1.5 million employee volunteering  
hours by 2025 (cumulative since the beginning  
Contribute  100 million in HP Foundation   
Goal Progress in 2018 UN SDGs 
Goal Progress in 2018 UN SDGs 
Develop skills and improve wellbeing of 500,000  
factory workers by 2025, since the beginning of  
Enable better learning outcomes for 100 million  
people by 2025, since the beginning of 2015. 
and employee community giving34 by 2025  
Double factory participation33 in sustainability  
(cumulative since the beginning of 2016). 
255,400 supplier factory workers have  
participated in programs since the beginning   
of 2015.32 Learn more. 
Factory participation decreased by 3% compared  
to 2015, due in large part to changes in the  
composition of our supply chain in 2018.   
Learn more. 
More than 21 million students and adult learners  
have benefited from HP s education programs and  
solutions that advance quality learning and digital  
literacy, and enable better learning outcomes since  
the beginning of 2015. Learn more. 
166,000 users have enrolled in HP LIFE courses  
since 2016. Learn more. 
HP employees have contributed 284,000  
volunteer hours to local impact projects through  
2018. Learn more. 
Giving from the HP Foundation and employees  
reached  23.21 million through 2018.   
Learn more. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 17 
REINVENTING IMPACT   CIRCULAR ECONOMY 
We require a fundamental shift toward a more circular and low-carbon  model. Companies that can grow without also increasing raw materials  consumption will thrive in a resource-constrained future     and will be   well placed to help customers do the same. 
Our commitment to transforming our business model spans our value  chain: from our sourcing practices and operational excellence to how we  design, deliver, recover, repair, and reuse our products and solutions. This  transformation will redefine how we function as a business and how our  customers work and live, through technology and solutions that enable entire  industries to eliminate waste and drive efficient, circular value chains. 
Against a backdrop of rapid population  growth, an expanding middle class, and  increasingly scarce natural resources, the  traditional linear  take, make, dispose   production model is no longer viable.  
A World   Without Waste 
Global resource consumption   in 2018 occurred 1.7 times  faster than the planet s  ecosystems can regenerate.35 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 18 
HP works with Homeboy Electronics Recycling to  recycle HP products and recover material, supporting  employment and jobs training while enabling a more  circular economy. 
REINVENTING IMPACT   CIRCULAR ECONOMY 
HP promotes public policies, cross-industry initiatives, and  sustainable product standards that support progress in  this area. In 2018, we endorsed the European Strategy for  Plastics and the French Circular Economy Roadmap.  
HP builds durable products that are easier than ever to  repair and upgrade, which extends their useful lives while  reducing costs. Several HP products have received high  scores from the iFixit product repair site. For example,  the Elite x2 1013 G3, an EPEAT  Gold tablet, has an iFixit  repairability rating of 9 out of 10. Our EliteBook 800 G5  Business Notebook series also received a 10 out of 10 iFixit  repairability score. 
At the 2018 World Economic Forum in Davos, we joined the  Platform for Accelerating the Circular Economy (PACE) and  in 2019 extended our commitment to continue transitioning  our company and our customers to a circular  make,  use, reuse  approach that seeks to close the loop for our  products, including capital equipment such as our digital  industrial printing presses. 
FOR EXAMPLE: 
We use recycled ocean-bound plastic bottles to make  Original HP ink cartridges, diverting over 25 million plastic  bottles since 2016  see Closing the loop on plastics.  
HP s groundbreaking closed-loop recycling program uses  plastic from recycled Original HP cartridges (plus recycled  bottles and hangers) to create new Original HP cartridges. 
As a member of the Ellen  MacArthur Foundation s global  commitment to address plastic  waste at its source, HP is  working toward an economy  where plastic never becomes  waste or pollution.  
To achieve this objective, we must eliminate problematic and  unnecessary plastic items from our products, innovate to  ensure the plastics we use are reusable or recyclable, and  circulate plastics away from the environment and back into  the economy.  
Customers can return used electronic products to any one of  about 1,000 Best Buy stores in the United States (in addition  to a wide range of other customer take-back programs).   We use the recovered post-consumer recycled plastic resin  to make new HP ENVY Photo 6200, 7100, and 7800 Printers   see Materials innovation.  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 19 
REINVENTING IMPACT   CIRCULAR ECONOMY 
HP s Full Circle   Approach 
Product recycling, print supplies closed-loop  recycled plastic content, hardware recycled  content (PCs, printers) 
MATERIALS RECOVERY AND REUSE 
 HP Subscription Services, HP Device   as a Service, HP Managed Print Services,   HP Instant Ink 
HP Indigo Reconditioning Program,   PC and printer reuse 
REUSE   REFURBISHMENT 
 HP Indigo, HP PageWide   Web Presses, modular design,   freely available   service manuals 
PRODUCT-AS-A-SERVICE 
 MAINTENANCE    UPGRADE MODEL 
Materials   reduction reuse   and renewable energy   initiatives in HP s supply chain   and operations also  support the circular   economy 
 HP commercial   and industrial graphics  printing solutions 
CIRCULAR  ECONOMY   ENABLERS 
  HP 3D  printing  technology 
   Dematerialization and increased   recycled content 
  Durability and repairability 
   Product repair, reuse, and recycling    
   Shift from transactional   to service-based models 
   Digitizing supply chains   to reduce waste and cost    
   Building new circular   supply chains  
  Supporting customers 
OUR PRIORITIES 
Decoupling   growth from  consumption 
Transforming   industry   business models 
Collaborating   with partners   and customers 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 20 
REINVENTING IMPACT   CIRCULAR ECONOMY 
EXTENDING PRODUCT LIFE   AND SUPPORTING INNOVATION  WITH SERVICE-BASED SOLUTIONS 
Service-based solutions   such as HP  Device as a Service (DaaS), HP Managed  Print Services, and HP Instant Ink    provide customers with access to the  latest technologies, enabling them  to scale as business needs evolve. In  2019, HP completed a preliminary life  cycle assessment (LCA) comparing its  DaaS offering for commercial PCs with  traditional transactional sales offerings.  Results showed a substantial reduction  in environmental impacts across all  categories assessed, due to the DaaS  service model, which keeps PCs in use  for multiple life cycles. We are working  with an LCA consultancy to conduct a  full, ISO-compliant, peer-reviewed LCA  to more fully understand the magnitude  of those benefits. We plan to publish  study results in the coming year. 
By the end of 2019, we aim to increase  the reuse of spare parts in HP Indigo  presses to 70%, and increase the BID  return rate to 80%. 
In 2018, HP saved more than 800  tonnes36 of metal and plastics through  the extended take-back of spare parts,  supplies, and used commercial print  presses.  
During the last four years, we have  more than doubled the weight of raw  materials saved through the return of  HP Indigo press binary ink developer  (BID) components, and in 2018 used  more than 50 tonnes of recycled content  plastic in Indigo supplies. The click- charge cost-per-print business model  includes consumables, which increases  our incentive to deliver consumables  in the most resource-efficient way  possible. All Indigo presses collect and  reuse imaging oil, and the Regenerated  Imaging Oil (RIO) system in our best- selling presses further reduces waste oil  by 20 50% on average.37  
LOWERING THE   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS   OF COMMERCIAL PRINTING  
TRANSFORMING INDUSTRIES   WITH 3D PRINTING  
HP Multi Jet Fusion 3D printing   technology has the potential to  revolutionize manufacturing and other  industries and transform supply chains  by providing on-demand, more localized  means of production.  
This offers enormous potential for the  circular economy in terms of expanding  product life, reducing waste and  greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and  avoiding the impacts associated with  transportation and inventory of raw  materials and finished goods.  
3D printing can also reduce the amount  of materials, time, and cost needed  to make finished parts by realizing  complex shapes or redesigning complex  assemblies into a single part.  
units of hardware   remarketed   reused. 
1.25MILLION 
 of hardware and supplies recycled. 
21,250 TONNES 
133,800 TONNES 
of recycled plastic used in HP products. 
2018 PROGRESS TOWARD   A CIRCULAR ECONOMY 
reduction in personal systems  materials use intensity since 2016. 
reduction in printers materials   use intensity since 2016. 
4.34 MILLION 
units of hardware repaired. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 21 
Transforming   for a Low-carbon   Future 
REINVENTING IMPACT   CLIMATE ACTION 
At HP, we recognize that addressing climate change is not only our  responsibility, but also vital to the long-term success of our business.  
Our vision is to transform our entire business to help drive a more  efficient, circular, and low-carbon future, and to support our customers  and communities to achieve more, with less impact. HP s long legacy of  environmental leadership and demonstrated commitment to climate action  has been widely recognized. 
For the 5th   consecutive year  
Climate change is one of the most   significant and urgent issues facing business  and society today. The science is clear,   and the urgency to act is increasing.  
For the 3rd  consecutive year  
 5 as of   Q1 2019  
Engaging in policy advocacy and industry collaboration 
We support market- and science- based policies and solutions that aim  to mitigate climate change, provide  transparency and accountability,  promote innovative technologies  to lower carbon footprints, and  encourage the production and use   of renewable energy. 
As part of HP s continuing drive to  combat climate change, in September  2018, at the Global Climate Action  Summit in California, HP and 20 other  technology companies signed the   Step Up  Declaration, indicating the  industry s ongoing commitment to  accelerate progress.  
We also continued our support for  the Paris Agreement as one of 17  companies to sign a C2ES-led joint  business statement welcoming  the work at COP24 to set forth  the Paris  rulebook  to guide the  implementation of the agreement. 
In addition, we work to accelerate  collective climate action through  global programs, including: 
CDP      to engage and drive   performance with our suppliers 
WWF Climate Savers       to share, learn,   and adopt best practices  
RE100       to advance the shift to   100% renewable power 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 22 
HP s carbon footprint  increased by 9% in  2018, compared to the  prior year. Growth in  PC and printer sales  increased emissions in the  production and product  use phases. These factors  offset reductions from  design innovation and  product portfolio shifts.  
Setting goals and tracking progress to reduce  climate impact across our value chain 
HP was the first global IT company to publish  a full carbon footprint. The understanding  we gain through this analysis helps us target  opportunities for improvement and drive  progress. We were also the first to set bold goals  to reduce GHG emissions across our entire value  chain, and one of the first 65 companies to have  its GHG emissions reduction targets approved by  the Science Based Targets initiative. 
See more detail in Footprint. 
REINVENTING IMPACT   CLIMATE ACTION 
PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS 
Reducing the energy needs of our products  is key to reducing our impact and supporting  our customers  sustainability goals. We are  working toward our goal of decreasing product  use GHG emissions intensity by 30% by 2025,  compared to 2015. Transformations such as  our shift to service-based models and the  Fourth Industrial Revolution will also support  the transition to a decarbonized future. 
  Product use 23,300,000 tonnes    Product end of service 200,000 tonnes 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
Emissions from our supply chain represent nearly  half of our carbon footprint. In addition to driving  progress on our own supply chain GHG emissions  reduction goals, we engage with and incentivize  our suppliers to improve tracking, secure  assurance of their GHG emissions data, and set  science-based GHG emissions reduction targets.  Through product design, we continually work to  reduce materials use, a key driver of emissions in  this category. 
   Materials extraction through   manufacturing 18,600,000 tonnes     Capital goods 200,000 tonnes     Upstream energy production 100,000 tonnes     Transport 1,800,000 tonnes  
OPERATIONS 1% 
We have the greatest control over emissions that   result from our direct operations and model  sustainable business practices in this area. We aim  to reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from  global operations by 60% by 2025, compared to 2015,  and have reached a 41% reduction through 2018. We  aim to use 100% renewable electricity in our global  operations by 2035. As of 2018, we have achieved  100% renewable electricity in the United States, and  47% in our global operations. 
  Facilities 197,400 tonnes    Transportation fleet 32,200 tonnes    Business travel 70,000 tonnes    Employee commuting 200,000 tonnes 
Carbon   footprint 
44,699,600 tonnes C02e 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 23 
PROGRESS GOAL 7% 
EXTENDING OUR LEADERSHIP   TO HELP TACKLE   PLASTIC POLLUTION 
Use 30% postconsumer   recycled content plastic across   HP s personal systems and print  product portfolio by 2025. 38 
FEATURE: CLOSING THE LOOP ON PLASTICS 
Through the end of 2018, we achieved 7%  postconsumer recycled content plastic use   in HP personal systems and print products.  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 24 
8 MILLION TONNES 
of plastic leaks into the marine  environment from land-based  sources every year. 40 
HP is working to transform our business  model to support a more efficient, circular,  and low-carbon economy. One critical   piece of this transition is building new,  circular supply chains that close the loop   on important materials. We are leading the  industry on efforts to source and incorporate  post-consumer plastic into our products    and keep it out of the ocean. 
there will be more plastic,   by weight, than fish in the ocean. 41 
In 2016, we expanded our closed-loop recycling program to include  hardware. During 2017, we launched the HP ENVY 6200, 7100, and 7800  Photo Printers, the world s first in-class printers made from recycled  printers and other electronics     more than 10% by weight.43 In 2018, we  increased the recycled content plastic in some HP ENVY photo printer  models to 20% 30% by weight. We continue to expand the level of recycled  content in our products and expand into new product lines. 
HP ENVY photo printers contain  between 20-30% recycled plastic   by weight.  
HP Tango is made with more than  30% closed-loop recycled plastic by  weight using plastic from recycled  printers and other electronics.  
Through 2018, driven by our Planet Partners recycling program, HP has  manufactured over 4.2 billion HP ink and toner cartridges using more   than a cumulative 107,000 tonnes of recycled plastic. This has kept 830   million HP cartridges and an estimated 101 million apparel hangers and   4.37 billion post-consumer plastic bottles out of landfills  instead, upcycling  these materials for continued use. More than 80% of our Original HP ink  cartridges contain 45% 70% post-consumer recycled content, and 100%  of Original HP toner cartridges42 contain 5% 45% post-consumer or post- industrial recycled content. 
FEATURE: CLOSING THE LOOP ON PLASTICS 
A legacy of leadership in closed-loop plastic 
INCREASING POST-CONSUMER RECYCLED CONTENT ACROSS OUR PORTFOLIO 
Recycled content plastic makes up  more than 33% of the plastic used in  the HP T1700, Z6, and Z9 DesignJet  Printer series. 
HP business PCs and displays  include 24% recycled plastic  content, on average. 44 
plastic bottles are  produced every second. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 25 
In 2016, HP launched an ambitious  program in Haiti to help tackle the growing  challenge of ocean-bound plastics.   In partnership with the First Mile Coalition  and our supplier partners, we have now  built a fully functioning ocean-bound  plastics supply chain. 
Through this initiative, we have opened a new market opportunity,  providing a steady revenue stream for local collectors, enabling safer  working conditions, and local educational opportunities. 
FEATURE: CLOSING THE LOOP ON PLASTICS 
A Haitian woman's reinvention story, powered by HP and the First Mile Coalition  
PARTNERING TO TACKLE OCEAN-BOUND PLASTICS 
Through March 2019, we have collected more than 25 million plastic  bottles to be upcycled into HP print cartridges and hardware products    that s approximately 716,000 pounds (325 tonnes) of plastic material that  might otherwise have washed into the Caribbean Sea.  
We are proud of our progress, but also recognize that this is  a challenge bigger than any one company or organization can  address. To further advance our progress, in 2018 HP joined  NextWave Plastics, a global consortium of worldwide businesses  committed to scaling the use of ocean-bound plastics by  developing the first global network of ocean-bound plastics  supply chains.       To tackle the global challenge of   ocean plastic, collaboration within   and between industries is critical. 
Through March 2019 
pounds (325 tonnes) of ocean-bound   plastic sourced for use in HP products. 
income opportunities   created for adults in Haiti.45 
children  enrolled in school. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 26 
A MORE SUSTAINABLE   AND INCLUSIVE INDUSTRIAL  REVOLUTION WITH DIGITAL  MANUFACTURING 
FEATURE: FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION 
As we accelerate into the Fourth Industrial Revolution, we are  witnessing a profound transformation that will disrupt and reinvent  virtually every aspect of the global manufacturing industry.  
HP Multi Jet Fusion 3D printing technology is poised to help power  this transformation, while driving a more sustainable and inclusive  industrial revolution.  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 27 
need photo from from HP 
FEATURE: FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION 
In a recent HP assessment,  our Multi Jet Fusion  technology performed in  the top level in eight of  nine dimensions related to  health and environmental  attributes. 46 
REINVENTING SUPPLY CHAINS   AND PRODUCTS 
By shortening and simplifying supply chains, digital  manufacturing enabled by 3D printing technology  helps to reduce greenhouse gas and other emissions  related to manufacturing and transportation. As  smaller-scale, distributed manufacturing becomes the  norm, products can be produced locally as needed,  reducing lead times, enabling better matching of sup- ply and demand, and avoiding excess production that  could end up as waste. Short runs will become more  cost effective, enabling greater product customization  based on local market tastes or unique needs. 
The accelerating growth of 3D printing will disrupt and  redistribute an estimated  4 6 trillion of the global  economy in the next five to 10 years. 47 Jobs will shift  around the globe, with manufacturing migrating to  places where 3D printing is fully embraced. By reducing  upfront costs and enabling economically feasible,  smaller-scale production, this technology will also  lower barriers to entry for start-ups and established  players alike, while opening the door to innovative  solutions that address our most pressing issues.  In 2018, HP and key strategic partners launched the  HP-NTU Digital Manufacturing Corporate Lab to  drive the innovation, technology, skills building, and  economic development critical to advance the Fourth  Industrial Revolution. 
TRANSFORMING JOBS   AND ECONOMIES 
THOUGHTFUL MATERIALS USE   AND INNOVATION 
A significant part of the life cycle impact of HP Multi  Jet Fusion 3D printed parts relates to materials. HP  Jet Fusion 3D printers enable industry-leading surplus  material reusability of up to 80%. 48 By providing highly  reusable printing materials, we enable production of  finished parts that have a lower impact. 3D printing  also enables more materials-efficient designs com- pared to traditional manufacturing, further reducing  overall impact.  
HP is using 3D printing technology to transform   our own supply chain and to print selected parts for  our own products. This improves speed-to-market,  reduces costs and environmental impact, and  enhances customer satisfaction. 
PERSONALIZED   HEALTHCARE INNOVATION 
UK-based Crispin Orthotics is using HP s Multi Jet  Fusion 3D printing technology to make custom-print- ed support devices for almost any part of the body,  including ankles, knees, wrists, and spines. These cost  less than the traditional carbon fiber versions and  can be made to exacting specifications. Compared to  previous designs, the 3D-printed orthotics are flexible,  lightweight, and much less bulky, which helps to speed  up patients  rehabilitation. 
In 2019, HP expanded its recycling program to include  3D consumables, such as Original HP agent printheads  and cartridges. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 28 
PROGRESS GOAL 100% 
Achieve zero deforestation   associated with HP brand   paper and paper-based   product packaging by 2020. 
PROTECTING,   RESTORING   PROMOTING  SUSTAINABLE   FORESTS 
FEATURE: ZERO DEFORESTATION 
Achieved for HP brand paper in 2016  and maintained that performance  through 2018. Reached 65% for paper- based product packaging. 
29 HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 
Forests are key to the  survival of human,   animal, and plant life  around the world.  
FEATURE: ZERO DEFORESTATION 
They are a source of food, medicine,   fuel, and jobs for more than a billion  people, are essential to biodiversity,   and help filter our air and combat   climate change by absorbing carbon   from the atmosphere. 
As HP works to transform our business to  drive a more efficient, low-carbon, and  circular economy, protecting the world s  forests is a key part of the solution. 
18.7 MILLION 
acres of forests are   lost each year   through deforestation.50 
of the planet s   terrestrial biodiversity  is supported by forests.51 
tonnes of carbon dioxide   are absorbed by forests   each year.52 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 30 
In March 2019, HP announced its  bold vision for print sustainability    pledging to make printing with HP  forest positive, carbon neutral,   and part of a circular economy. 
Vision for a Forest Positive53 Future 
FEATURE: ZERO DEFORESTATION 
A Long Legacy of Supporting Responsible Forestry 
A decade ago, HP became the first IT  company to publish a forestry policy, the  HP Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy.  
In June 2016, we announced a commitment to achieve zero deforestation for  our HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging. This commitment  means that all HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging will be  derived from certified and recycled sources by 2020, with a preference for  virgin fiber from certified sources of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC),   a nonprofit that promotes responsible management of the world s forests.  
In addition to sourcing wood-based fibers more responsibly, we also look  for ways to reduce the amount of materials used in our packaging, recycle  materials where possible, and shift to more sustainable materials. For  example, in our Asia Pacific and Japan region we have partnered with  a supplier to replace the wood pallets used to ship HP printers in the area  with pallets made from straw that otherwise would have been burned   and created air pollution.  
We also help customers print more responsibly by designing printers and  software to optimize paper use, defaulting many print fleets to double-sided  printing, reducing paper waste through HP Managed Print Services, and  improving paper recyclability by developing solutions for de-inking. 
By collaborating across the paper industry, and with the scientific community  and NGOs, we encourage best practices and work to address cross-market  issues and drive adoption of forest positive actions.  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 31 
REINVENTING IMPACT   HUMAN RIGHTS 
Respecting human rights is a core value at HP and embedded in the way we   do business. This is not only a moral imperative, but increasingly a strategic   business requirement. Our stance is clear and uncompromising. We respect the  fundamental rights and freedoms to which all people everywhere are entitled.  
We are committed to ensuring that  everyone is treated with dignity, respect,  and fairness     within our own company  and through collaboration with our  partners and suppliers. 
Respecting   Human Rights  Across the   Value Chain 
CONTINUING A LONG   HISTORY OF LEADERSHIP  
We respect and uphold relevant  human rights in alignment with the UN  Universal Declaration of Human Rights,  the UN Guiding Principles for Business  and Human Rights, and the UN Global  Compact. Our company-wide Human  Rights Council has strengthened our  management of human rights risks.  Our customers, partners, investors,  and other stakeholders rightly expect  us to operate with the highest levels  of integrity, and to continue to  demonstrate leadership in this rapidly  evolving area through our human  rights-related policies and practices. 
In our own operations, we strive to  ensure that our employees have a  safe and healthy workplace, where  harassment and discrimination  are never tolerated. Within HP and  across our value chain, we unlock  the potential of all employees by  championing diversity and inclusion,  wellbeing, and pay equity. We consider  privacy an important human right  and are committed to protecting our  employees  and customers    personal information.  
PROTECTING, EMPOWERING,   AND FAIRLY REWARDING   OUR EMPLOYEES  
ENGAGING WITH SUPPLIERS TO  SAFEGUARD WORKER RIGHTS   We are committed to ensuring that  our products are engineered and  manufactured with respect for the  people who make them. The best   way to protect workers and  improve labor standards is through  transparency and due diligence. Using  this approach, we continue to work  closely with our suppliers to build an  ethical supply chain, foster opportunity  and equality, eliminate discrimination,  eradicate forced labor, safeguard  the rights of workers, and help local  communities thrive.  
PROACTIVELY MANAGING AND  ADDRESSING ISSUES WHEREVER  WE FIND THEM  
Based on our latest human rights  assessment in 2018, we continue to  proactively address challenges wherever  we uncover them and to communicate  progress transparently. HP strives  to implement global policies and  programs that protect and empower  the most vulnerable populations. This  encompasses our initiatives in   education, disaster recovery and  resilience, and opportunities for   women and minorities. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 32 
HP has one of the largest and most  sophisticated design and engineering  supply chains in the IT industry     made  up of hundreds of production suppliers and  thousands of nonproduction suppliers. 54  
As customer expectations rise, global regulations continue to evolve, and our  industry continues to undergo major transformation, managing our supplier  relationships and responsibility is increasingly important.  
REINVENTING IMPACT   SUPPLY CHAIN 
An Ethical   and Sustainable  Global Supply  Chain 
Develop skills and  improve wellbeing   of 500,000 factory  workers by 2025,   since the beginning   of 2015. 
Help suppliers cut  2 million tonnes  of CO2e emissions  between 2010   and 2025. 
PROGRESS GOAL 
PROGRESS GOAL 
1.16MILLION 
supplier factory workers  participated in 10 programs  in three countries, bringing  the total to 255,400 workers  trained since the beginning   of 2015. 
tonnes of CO2e   emissions avoided   by suppliers. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 33 
REINVENTING IMPACT   SUPPLY CHAIN 
BUILDING CAPABILITIES AND SKILLS   We aim to empower workers so that everyone who  helps bring our products to market can thrive. For  example, in 2018 we launched our Women in Factories  program in China focused on wellness and leader- ship skills, as part of our ongoing involvement in a  BSR initiative in the country. Through peer-to-peer  coaching plus direct engagement, our program has  reached more than 11,600 female workers across three  supplier sites. BSR s final report revealed satisfaction  rates of 93.8% among the peer educators and 83%  among workers, while factory management scored the  program 9.5 out of 10. 
We are investing in policies, programs, and capabilities   to create a positive impact, strengthen and transform  our supply chain, empower workers, and provide greater  transparency and accountability to our stakeholders. 
 2.5 billion 
HP is one of the companies receiving the highest score in  commitment and governance for corporate efforts to  eradicate forced labor from the ICT supply chain 
in new, retained, and potential revenue in 2018   took supply chain responsibility into account.56 
REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT  
With nearly half of our carbon footprint coming  from our supply chain, we recognize the importance  of partnering with our suppliers to reduce their  environmental impact in order to create a more  resilient supply chain. We collaborate closely with  our production and nonproduction suppliers to drive  low-carbon and resource-efficient transformation  throughout the value chain, and we offer targeted  programs to help suppliers gain capabilities and make  lasting improvements. 
average supplier score on Sustainability Scorecard  in 2018, up from 75% in 2016.57 
HP received a top 1% score for all suppliers assessed by  EcoVadis, leading to a 9th consecutive Gold CSR rating 
COLLABORATING TO ADDRESS FORCED   LABOR AND EXCESSIVE WORKING HOURS 
All people are entitled to respect, dignity, and freedom  from discrimination and harassment, as well as  fair, safe labor conditions and freely chosen work.  Uncovering and addressing complex supply chain risks  such as forced labor and excessive working hours is  essential and challenging work. For example, through  our partnership with the Responsible Labor Initiative,  we are working to certify recruitment agencies and  train them on proper practices that uphold workers   rights. HP also requires its suppliers to reimburse  workers for fees charged by these agencies.  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 34 
REINVENTING IMPACT   DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
The best innovation springs from teams of individuals, each collaborating and  contributing their own perspectives, knowledge, and experiences to advance  how the world works and lives. From HP s earliest days, we ve demonstrated  that capturing and drawing from diverse backgrounds and points of view  improves our products and services     and our company overall.  
HP is reinventing the standard for diversity  and inclusion     in how we operate as a  business and how we impact society. 
Embracing  Diversity to Fuel  Innovation 
of HP employees agree   that HP values diversity.59 
of HP employees feel they   can be themselves at work. 58 
Ranked 20th overall and 2nd  for technology companies on  Thomson Reuters 2018 Diversity    Inclusion Index.60 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 35 
  As of January 31, 2019.       As of October 31, 2018.        Women, minorities, veterans, and people with disabilities. 
REINVENTING IMPACT   DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
EXECUTIVES     (DIRECTOR AND ABOVE) 
BUSINESS IMPACT NETWORKS (BINs)   100 BINs help to drive diversity and   inclusion at all levels     about 13,000   BIN members participated in events   across 25 countries in 2018. 
HP s Board of Directors is the most diverse of any U.S. technology company.  We are also among the top technology companies for women in executive  positions. We work to foster diversity and inclusion at all levels. In   addition, our Reinvent Mindsets campaign aims to spark behavioral change   and demonstrate action by shining a light on difficult topics such as  unconscious bias. 
Minorities  55% 
TOTAL WORKFORCE   
Underrepresented  minorities 27% 
Typically   underrepresented  groups    59% 
2018 U.S. HIRING 
Setting the  standard   for diversity   and inclusion  starts at the top  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 36 
EXTENDING OUR COMMITMENT BEYOND  OUR OWN EMPLOYEES     In 2016, we challenged our top five marketing  agencies to significantly increase the number of  U.S. minorities and women in key creative and  strategic planning roles on HP account teams.  As of the end of 2018, 36% of U.S.-based agency  account teams were from underrepresented  groups     up from 24% in 2017. Twenty-eight  percent of senior account staff were from  underrepresented groups     up from 19% in  2017. Four out of five agencies saw a positive  upward trend in underrepresented minority  representation for overall account teams. Women  increased to 62% of HP s U.S.-based agency  account teams (up from 61% in 2017), and 55%   of senior account roles (up from 51% in 2017). 
REINVENTING IMPACT   DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
Our legal team also works to improve diversity  among our U.S. law firm partners and withholds  up to 10% of all invoicing of those partners who  fail to meet or exceed diverse minimal staffing on  work for us. See details.  
Our commitment to diversity and inclusion  extends to how we design and deliver  products. We apply industry-leading,  universal design principles to meet a broad  range of disability and age-related needs  and improve our products for everyone.  
Learn more. 
  Out of 880 entrants to the Girl Rising  Creative Challenge, we awarded 12  young changemakers with micro-grants  and HP technology to help make their  communities more gender-equitable.  
  In 2018, more than 1,500 volunteers  from 41 company sites participated  in Hour of Code, an initiative that aims  to solve the diversity gap in computer  science, reaching over 25,000 students   in almost 300 schools and communities  worldwide. 
Beyond our own business partners and  suppliers, we also collaborate with  organizations that seek to address  underrepresentation in our industry  and that highlight and promote diverse  voices:  
  In March 2018, we launched a  15-month partnership with   Women Deliver, providing support and  technology to the organization s Young  Leaders program. Women Deliver is a  leading global advocate that champions  gender equality and the health and   rights of girls and women. 
  Through financial and technology  support for Black Girls Code, we  invest in the next generation of female  innovators and leaders. In 2018, we  reached more than 500 girls in 13   cities across the United States.  
 423 MILLION 
spent with small companies   in the United States in 2018. 61 
 219MILLION 
SUPPORTING   DIVERSE SUPPLIERS 
spent with minority- and women-  owned businesses in the United States   in 2018.62 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 37 
REINVENTING IMPACT   EDUCATION 
Quality education is a fundamental human right. For typically underserved  groups, technology can be a great equalizer, helping to bridge the digital  divide and connect people and communities to greater opportunity. Through  our products and solutions, programs, and partnerships, HP is empowering  teachers, improving learning outcomes for millions, and equipping people with  the skills to succeed in the future economy.  
Along with our pioneering work supporting education in schools, HP also  announced in 2018 a new commitment to empowering colleges and universities.  The Campus of the Future framework constitutes a global effort to make  campuses more productive, more inclusive, and more secure. Focusing on  student success and learning outcomes, HP is collaborating with institutions   to understand the potential impact of new technologies.  
Quality  Education for  Every Person 
PROGRESS GOAL 
Enable better   learning outcomes  for 100 million people  by 2025, since the  beginning of 2015. 
HP has built two schools and enrolled 100 kids in school, as part of the company s impact sourcing initiative in Haiti 
21MILLION  
students and adult learners have  benefited from HP s education  programs and solutions that advance  quality learning and digital literacy,   and enable better learning outcomes  since the beginning of 2015. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 38 
HP LIFE has reached 166,000 people since 2016   and nearly 750,000 since 2012. 
REINVENTING IMPACT   EDUCATION 
BUILDING SKILLS FOR   THE FUTURE ECONOMY To harness the full potential of the  Fourth Industrial Revolution, we must  invest in tomorrow s workforce and  ensure that the future economy is  powered by a diversity of thought and  an inclusive culture. 
Colleges and universities need to  support next-generation learners  and prepare students for the jobs of  the future, not the jobs of the past.  
HP s Campus of the Future framework  delivers vibrant, secure environments  for teaching, learning, research, and  collaboration, harnessing virtual reality,  augmented reality, and 3D printing  to improve engagement and learning  outcomes. In 2017, we launched a major  research program with more than 20  higher education institutions, including  Harvard, Massachusetts Institute  of Technology (MIT), and Florida  International University. To explore  
HP World on Wheels (WoW) mobile learning labs  (WOW) brings self-contained, solar-powered,  Internet-enabled mobile learning labs to rural areas of  India. WOW supports digital literacy, education, and  entrepreneurship, aiming to reach 6,400 Indian villages  and impact more than 15 million people by 2022. 
frontier use cases of extended reality  (XR) technology in teaching, learning,  and research, HP provides technology  grants to test the application of blended  reality in classrooms and research labs. 
Lifelong learning that supports up- skilling, re-skilling, and entrepreneurial  thinking will be critical to power this  future economy. HP LIFE (Learning  Initiative for Entrepreneurs), an HP  Foundation program, aims to enroll 1  million users between 2016 and 2025.  HP LIFE provides 30 free business and  IT skills courses in seven languages,  including a module that teaches  entrepreneurs how to integrate 3D  printing into their business.  
Talent and ingenuity can exist anywhere,  and open innovation and education  resources are key to inclusive success  and prosperity. With this in mind, we  partner with MIT on the Solve program,  which focuses on finding lasting  solutions to some of the world s most  pressing challenges.  
PARTNERING TO BRING QUALITY  LEARNING AND DIGITAL LITERACY  TO MILLIONS AROUND THE WORLD 100  
schools have received HP Learning   Studios, supporting thousands of   students in 2018. 
Syrian refugee students and  thousands more of their Lebanese  peers and teachers could be  reached through HP s partnership  with the Clooney Foundation for  Justice, UNICEF, and Google.org,  during the 2018-2019 school year.  
HP Learning Studios have been  launched in Jordan, at the Azraq  Refugee Camp and in Amman. We  are planning three more in Lebanon  by 2020, with implementation  beginning in 2019. 
HP NATIONAL EDUCATION  TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT (NETA)   Through NETA, we are helping  schools create meaningful outcomes  from education technology programs  and demonstrate to governments   a measurable return on investments  in education. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 39 
REINVENTING IMPACT   LOCAL IMPACT 
CATALYZING SUSTAINABLE IMPACT   THROUGH LOCAL PARTNERSHIPS 
Through HP Foundation funding, corporate philanthropy, employee  volunteering, and regional sustainable impact programs, we advance open  innovation solutions that meet local needs. Our local partners bring critical  perspective, expertise, and connections to ensure that our programs are  relevant to the needs of the community.  
We also drive sustainable impact at a global level by reinventing and  unlocking educational opportunity through the power of technology.   See Global education programs. In alignment with the UN Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs), our programs help tackle some of the   world s most pressing issues and focus on driving sustainable impact   for the planet, people, and communities.  
At HP, we embrace our role in creating positive, lasting change in the  communities where we live, work, and do business. We contribute skills,  technology, and investments to strengthen the resilience and vitality of   our local communities. We work to: 
  Empower underrepresented and marginalized groups    Support eco-stewards and eco-preneurs   Respond when disasters strike 
Vibrant   Communities   Everywhere 
Reach  100 million in  HP Foundation and  employee community  giving 63 by 2025.  
cumulative since the beginning of 2016 
cumulative since the beginning of 2016 
Achieve 1.5 million  employee volunteering   hours by 2025.   
PROGRESS GOAL 
HP partners with Girl Rising to raise awareness and drive progress toward gender equality 
 23.21MILLION 
in HP Foundation and  employee community giving 
employee volunteering hours 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 40 
REINVENTING IMPACT   LOCAL IMPACT 
HP local impact   around the globe in 2018 
DISASTER RELIEF HP Connection Spot 
Bucksport, South Carolina   Chattahoochee and Panama City Beach,  Florida, United States 
For those affected by natural disasters,  the ability to connect with family, friends,  and resources is vital. HP Connection Spot  provides access to computers and Internet  to communities in the aftermath of natural  disasters. In 2018, HP Connection Spot was  deployed to areas affected by hurricanes   and floods, with 10 HP volunteers staffing the  centers for 19 days. 
ENVIRONMENT Sustainable operations 
Guadalajara, Mexico 
Employees at our Guadalajara site have  helped reduce GHG emissions by more than  700 tonnes of CO2e. 
ENVIRONMENT Informal sector   recycling pilot 
S o Paulo, Brazil 
HP is working with recycling cooperatives  to increase the collectors  income and help  them correctly manage and recycle electronic  waste. Watch video.  
EDUCATION AND SKILLS Digital Schools 
Ireland, Northern Ireland, and Scotland 
We collaborate with the Digital School  Awards to address the digital education  gap and recognize leading schools. The  Cybersecurity initiative is helping Scottish  schools to teach pupils to navigate the   digital world safely. Learn more. 
EDUCATION AND SKILLS Supporting local schools 
UK and Ireland 
We have invested  3.7 million in schools   as part of our equipment trade-in program and  worked with corporate and other partners on a  purchasing program for parents. 
REFUGEE SUPPORT  EDUCATION AND SKILLS  HP LIFE and the  Mashrou3i partnership 
The Mashrou3i partnership in Tunisia has  created 1,400 jobs since it began in 2013,  with the goal of adding 6,000 more by 2021.  Learn more. 
REFUGEE SUPPORT  EDUCATION AND SKILLS HP School Cloud pilot 
Together with Education Cannot Wait (ECW),  Learning Equality, UNHCR, and UNICEF,   HP pledged to donate technology and  resources to improve the learning outcomes  for refugees. Watch video. 
EDUCATION AND SKILLS World on Wheels 
Since the World on Wheels (WOW) rollout of  12 self-contained, Internet-enabled, solar- powered mobile learning labs in rural India  during 2017, we have provided access to WOW  resources to an estimated 2 million people  across more than 900 villages (as of May  2019). Learn more. 
ENVIRONMENT Make IT Green 
Working with local agencies, we have helped  educate more than 63,000 students about  e-waste and collected an estimated 200  tonnes of used IT equipment for recycling.  Watch video. 
ENVIRONMENT Planet Ark 
11.8 million HP print cartridges were recycled  through 2018 with Cartridges 4 Planet Ark  (C4PA), an innovative recycling program we  co-founded in 2003 that provides Australians  with a free, easy-to-use, and environmentally  accredited way to recycle printer cartridges  with a zero waste to landfill commitment.  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 41 
Integrity, fairness, transparency, and  accountability are fundamental to an  inclusive society and a thriving business.  
At HP, how we do things is as important as what we do. We work every day to  earn the trust of our stakeholders and uphold our reputation for integrity and  ethical leadership. As a result, our employees are proud to work at HP, and  customers, partners, and suppliers want to do business with us. Beyond our  operations, we use our scale and influence to support ethical conduct across  our value chain and the broader IT industry. 
Guided by the Integrity at HP program, we apply strong ethics and anti- corruption principles within our operations, across our value chain, and   in the communities where we live, work, and do business.  
We combine strong internal governance with clear communication so that  everyone at HP understands our principles and can put them into practice.  Through robust policies, protocols, and controls, we secure the privacy of  our customers and employees. We promote equality and human rights for all  people across our value chain, guided by internal policies as well as external  standards such as the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  To increase our impact across the industry and beyond, we advocate for  public policies that drive progress and sustainable impact. 
REINVENTING IMPACT   INTEGRITY 
Winning the  Right Way 
Maintain greater than 99% completion rate  of annual Integrity at HP (formerly Standards  of Business Conduct) training among active  HP employees and the Board of Directors.  
of employees, including senior  executives, completed Integrity at  HP training, as well as all members  of our Board of Directors. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 42 
Create technology   that makes life better   for everyone,  everywhere 
Engineer experiences   that amaze 
What We Value 
  Enthusiasm, agility, and ownership 
  Uncompromising integrity 
  Trust and respect 
  Results through teamwork 
  Meaningful innovation 
   Focus on customers, partners,   and communities  
OUR CULTURE   THE HP WAY 
OUR MISSION 
OUR VISION 
Everyone at HP co-creates our culture every day  as we work together to deliver on our vision and  mission. It unites us in a shared purpose, while  drawing on the diverse backgrounds, experiences,  and views of HP employees worldwide.  
How We Work 
  We practice a growth mindset 
   We embrace diversity to fuel innovation 
   We work in ways that are good  for us and for the world 
   We solve tough challenges by   bringing out the best in each other 
 and we have fun doing it 
We imagine   the future   and make it   happen. 
Imagine the future 
  Aim for extraordinary 
  Make bold moves 
  Simplify the complex        
How We Lead 
We look to the HP Way for guidance   and inspiration, as it reflects who we   are today as well as our aspiration for  the company we want to become. 
Inspire the team 
   Connect, coach,  empower 
   Find meaning in work 
  Partner to win 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 43 
OUR PROMISE 
Keep Reinventing 
Make it happen 
   Anticipate, learn, adapt 
  Do what matters 
  Amaze the customer 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
This report contains forward-looking statements  that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the  assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP Inc.  and its consolidated subsidiaries ( HP ) may differ  materially from those expressed or implied by such  forward-looking statements and assumptions. All  statements other than statements of historical fact  are statements that could be deemed forward- looking statements, including, but not limited to,  any projections of net revenue, margins, expenses,  effective tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per  share, cash flows, benefit plan funding, deferred  taxes, share repurchases, foreign currency exchange  rates or other financial items  any projections of  the amount, timing or impact of cost savings or  restructuring and other charges  any statements of  the plans, strategies and objectives of management  for future operations, including, but not limited to,  our sustainability goals, the execution of restructuring  plans and any resulting cost savings, net revenue  or profitability improvements  any statements  concerning the expected development, performance,  market share or competitive performance relating  
to products or services  any statements regarding  current or future macroeconomic trends or events  and the impact of those trends and events on HP  and its financial performance  any statements  regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes   any statements of expectation or belief, including  with respect to the timing and expected benefits of  acquisitions and other business combination and  investment transactions  and any statements of  assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks,  uncertainties and assumptions include the need to  address the many challenges facing HP s businesses   the competitive pressures faced by HP s businesses   risks associated with executing HP s strategy  the  impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends  and events  the need to manage third-party suppliers  and the distribution of HP s products and the delivery  of HP s services effectively  the protection of HP s  intellectual property assets, including intellectual  property licensed from third parties  risks associated  with HP s international operations  the development  and transition of new products and services and  the enhancement of existing products and services  to meet customer needs and respond to emerging  
technological trends  the execution and performance  of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers,  clients and partners  the hiring and retention of key  employees  integration and other risks associated with  business combination and investment transactions   the results of the restructuring plans, including  estimates and assumptions related to the cost  (including any possible disruption of HP s business)  and the anticipated benefits of the restructuring  plans  the impact of changes in tax laws, including  uncertainties related to expected regulations of the  U.S. Department of the Treasury implementing the  Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 on HP s tax obligations  and effective tax rate  the resolution of pending  investigations, claims and disputes  and other risks  that are described or updated from time to time  in HP s filings with the Securities and Exchange  Commission. HP assumes no obligation and does not  intend to update these forward-looking statements. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 44 
1 As of October 31, 2018. 
6 Renewable electricity purchased and generated on-site,  combined with renewable electricity certificates and  guarantees of origin, accounted for 47% of our total  consumption. 
7 This number does not include commercial and industrial  graphics printing solutions, packaging for those solutions,  scanners, personal systems accessories sold separately,  or documentation for any products. 
8 Product donations are valued at the Internet list price.  This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase  the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the  Internet at the time the grant was processed. 
9 Data refers to the percentage of HP 2018 Voice Insight  Action (VIA) employee survey respondents who strongly  agreed or agreed with each statement. 
11 As of October 31, 2018. 
12 As of March 2019. 
13 An industry standard for providing environmental  information about products and product families. In  2018, HP provided ECO Declarations for product groups  representing 93% of revenue. 
14 In 2018, we tracked  972 million in new revenue (total  contract value) in which sustainability criteria were a  known consideration and were supported actively by  HP s Sustainability and Compliance organization. This  represented an increase of 35% compared to 2017. 
16 Data refers to the percentage of HP 2018 Voice Insight  Action (VIA) employee survey respondents who strongly  agreed or agreed with each statement. 
18 World Population Prospects: The 2015 Revision.   United Nations. (2015). 
19 68% of the world population projected to live in urban  areas by 2050, says UN. UN Department of Economic  and Social Affairs. (May 2018).  
20 Brookings Data Now: 75 Percent of 2025 Workforce Will  Be Millennials. Brookings. (2014). 
21 He, Wan and Daniel Goodkind and Paul Kowal. (2016).   
22 IHS Markit. The Internet of Things: A Movement, not a  Market. 
23 Dobbs, Richard. (2015). 4 ways the global economy is  being transformed. World Economic Forum.  
24 Machines Will Do More Tasks Than Humans by 2025 but  Robot Revolution Will Still Create 58 Million Net New Jobs  in Next Five Years. World Economic Forum. (Sept. 2018). 
An aging world. International Population Reports.  
25 Lagarde, Christine. (2016) Asia s Advancing Role in  the Global Economy, By Christine Lagarde, Managing  Director, International Monetary Fund.  IMF (2016). 
26 Vision 2050   The new agenda for business. World  Business Council for Sustainable Development. 
27 Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a percentage of  total plastic used in all HP personal systems, printer  hardware, and print cartridges shipped during the  reporting year. Total volume excludes brand-licensed  products and after-market hardware accessories. Total  RCP includes post-consumer waste recycled plastic,  closed-loop plastic, and ocean-bound plastic used in  HP product manufacturing. Personal systems plastic is  defined by EPEAT  eco-label criteria. Subject to relevant  restrictions on the use and distribution of materials  destined for recycling and or recycled feedstocks. 
28 HP product use GHG emissions intensity measures per  unit GHG emissions during anticipated product lifetime  use. These values are then weighted by contribution  of personal systems and printing products to overall  revenue. These emissions represent more than 99%  of HP product units shipped each year, including  notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing  devices, workstations, displays, and digital signage  and  HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, Scitex, and Jet  Fusion 3D printers, and scanners. 
29 All HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging  will be derived from certified and recycled sources by  2020, with a preference for virgin fiber from certified  sources of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC).  Packaging is the box that comes with the product and all  paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. 
30 Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier  production and product transportation suppliers   reported GHG emissions attributable to HP divided  by HP s annual revenue. This method normalizes  performance based on business productivity. Intensity  is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease  the impact of variance year over year and highlight  longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions  include Scope 1 and Scope 2. 
31 This continues a goal from before the separation of  Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015,  extending the goal to 2025. Includes data from suppliers  associated with HP Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation  business units. 
32 Progress through 2018 includes 77,800 factory workers in  2015, 45,700 in 2016, 119,900 in 2017, and 12,000 in 2018. 
33 This data does not include participation in Responsible  Business Alliance audits. "Participation in our supply  chain sustainability programs" is quantified by those  programs that go beyond audits to build supplier  capabilities to meet our standards. This includes deep  dive assessment, weekly reporting of labor metrics,  procurement engagement through our supplier  Sustainability Scorecard, and in depth coaching and  workshops tailored to supplier risks. 
34 Includes valuation of employee volunteer hours, employee  donations, HP Foundation match, and HP Foundation grants. 
35 Earth Overshoot Day, Global Footprint Network. 
36 2018 raw materials savings estimation related to spare  parts take-back and reuse program, BID take back and  reuse program, press dismantling program, and press  reconditioning program. 
37 Comparison versus press without RIO system. 
38 Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a percentage of total  plastic used in all HP personal systems and printer  hardware and printing supplies shipped during the  reporting year. Total volume excludes brand-licensed  products and after-market hardware accessories. Total  RCP includes post-consumer waste recycled plastic,  closed-loop plastic, and ocean-bound plastic used in  HP product manufacturing. Personal systems plastic is  defined by EPEAT eco-label criteria. Subject to relevant  restrictions on the use and distribution of materials  destined for recycling and or recycled feedstocks. 
39 A million bottles a minute: world's plastic binge 'as  dangerous as climate change'. The Guardian (May 2018). 
40 The New Plastics Economy. Ellen MacArthur  Foundation. (2016). 
42 Does not include toner bottles. 
43 Compared to the majority of in-class color desktop  inkjet all-in-ones   199 USD. HP internal research survey  of printer manufacturers  published specifications,  sustainability reports and press releases as of 1 1 2019  and Buyers Laboratory Inc. January 2019 study  commissioned by HP  keypointintelligence.com  products samples hp-envy . Market share as reported  by IDC CYQ3 2018 Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker. The  HP ENVY 6200, 7100, 7800 all-in-one printers contain  more than 10% plastic from recycled printers and other  electronics by weight of the plastic. 
44 As defined by the IEEE 1680.1 2018 EPEAT standard.   Data are calendar year 2018. 
45 One income opportunity equals the ability for a person  to earn a consistent income for one month. 
46 In addition to HP Multi Jet Fusion, the assessment  included specific 3D printing systems using the following  technologies: digital light synthesis, fused deposition  modeling, and selective laser sintering. 
47 3D Printing: ensuring manufacturing leadership in the  
48 HP Jet Fusion 3D printing solutions using HP 3D  High Reusability PA 12 and HP 3D High Reusability  PA 11 provide 80% postproduction surplus material  reusability, producing functional parts batch after  batch. For testing, material is aged in real printing  conditions and tracked by generations (worst case for  reusability). Parts are then made from each generation  and tested for mechanical properties and accuracy. 
49 All HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging  will be derived from certified and recycled sources by  2020, with a preference for virgin fiber from certified  sources of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC).  Packaging is the box that comes with the product and all  paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. 
50 FAO Global Forest Resource Assessment 2015 and WWF  
Living Forests Report: Chapter 5. 
21st century, page 15.  
51 UNEP-FAO-WCMC 2009 and FAO 2011. 
52 International Union of Conservation of Nature. 
53 HP's Forest Positive Framework is built on previous  HP achievements in responsible sourcing of HP brand  paper and paper-based product packaging. The  Framework includes actions in five areas: maintaining  HP s long-standing commitment to sustainable  sourcing, engaging in collaborative projects with NGOs  to support leading forestry science, working with NGOs  to restore and protect global forests, leveraging HP s  media partnerships to influence positive actions, and  advancing printing technology to help customers use  paper efficiently. To reduce the burden on forests, HP  has also been increasing alternative fiber content in its  packaging. 
54 HP uses the terms  production suppliers,   product  transportation suppliers,  and  nonproduction  suppliers  throughout this report.  Production  suppliers  provide materials and components for  our product manufacturing and also assemble HP  products  Product transportation suppliers  provide  services for the shipping and delivery of HP products.   Nonproduction suppliers  provide goods and services  that do not go into the production of HP products (such  as staffing, telecommunications, and travel). 
55 This continues a goal from before the separation of  Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015,  extending the goal to 2025. Includes data from suppliers  associated with HP Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation  business units. 
56 In 2018, the value of revenue supported by HP s  Sustainability and Compliance organization included  retained, new, and potential revenue, where supply  chain responsibility was an area of particular interest for  the customer. 
57 Sustainability Scorecards provide suppliers a score  that encompasses audit performance (60% of total  score), environmental reporting (13%), conflict minerals  disclosure (6%), and other social and environmental  topics (21%). Suppliers discuss their scorecard with HP  as part of regular business performance evaluations  that determine ongoing business. Learn more. 
58 Data refers to the percentage of HP 2018 Voice Insight  Action (VIA) employee survey respondents who strongly  agreed or agreed with each statement. 
60 The Financial and Risk business of Thomson Reuters is  now Refinitiv. 
61 Data is for the 12 months ending September 30 of the  year noted. Figure is for purchases in the United States  and Puerto Rico from U.S.-based businesses. 
62 Data is for the 12 months ending September 30 of the year  noted. Figure is for purchases in the United States and  Puerto Rico from U.S.-based businesses. Suppliers are  categorized as minority-owned or women-owned, not both.  These categories include all sizes of businesses. 
63 Includes valuation of employee volunteer hours, employee  donations, HP Foundation match, and HP Foundation grants. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 45 
DETAILED  DISCLOSURES 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Table of contents: Detailed disclosures 
DETAILED DISCLOSURES 
48 Sustainable Impact 
49  Sustainable Impact strategy 
53   United Nations Sustainable  Development Goals 
54  Recognition 
55  Stakeholder engagement 
55  Governance 
56  Materiality 
57 Footprint 
58  Carbon and climate impact  
63  Integrity and human  rights 
64  Ethics and anti-corruption 
66  Human rights 
In this report, "we", "us", "our", "company", "HP", and "HP Inc." refer to HP Inc. (formerly Hewlett-Packard Company) and its consolidated subsidiaries. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  47 
68 Collaboration 
64 Ethics  
65 Anti-corruption  
66 Policies and programs 
66 Approach 
67 Identifying and addressing risk 
68  Privacy 
70  Government relations 
71  Supply chain  responsibility 
72  Approach 
74  Health and safety 
75  Responsible minerals sourcing 
76  Supplier diversity 
77  Environmental impact 
80  Audit results 
68 Approach 
69  Privacy and data protection  compliance 
69  Global standards and   regulatory environment 
69 Cybersecurity 
70 Policy priorities  
70 Political engagement 
75 Conflict minerals 
76 Other regions and minerals  
77 Greenhouse gas emissions 
76 Multi-stakeholder initiatives  
86 Operations 
87  Our employees 
92  Our facilities 
97   Community giving and  volunteerism 
104  Products and  solutions 
105  Sustainable design 
90 Talent development  
107  Product certifications   and disclosures  
87 Diversity and inclusion 
89 Employee engagement 
90 Compensation and benefits 
91 Health and safety 
91 Wellbeing 
92  Environmental, health, and  safety management 
93 Greenhouse gas emissions 
97 HP Foundation programs 
98 Disaster recovery and resilience  
99 Employee volunteerism  
105 Design for Sustainability 
107 Life cycle assessment 
112  Product responsibility 
114  Products and solutions portfolio 
123  Product repair, reuse, and recycling 
128 Appendix 
129  About this report 
130  Forward-looking statements 
131  Policies and standards 
132   Independent accountants    review report 
134  Material issues 
136   United Nations Global Compact  index 
137   United Nations Sustainable  Development Goals index 
138  Global Reporting Initiative index 
144  Endnotes 
108 Energy efficiency 
108 Materials innovation 
112 Product safety  
113 Product security and privacy 
115 Personal systems 
116 Printing 
120 3D printing 
121 Global education programs 
124 Customer take-back programs 
125  Product reuse and recycling  vendors 
DETAILED DISCLOSURES 
Executive summary Sustainable Impact Appendix Products and solutions Operations Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Footprint 
Sustainable Impact 
49 Sustainable Impact strategy 
53 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
54 Recognition 
55 Stakeholder engagement 
55 Governance 
56 Materiality 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  48 
Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Sustainable Impact 
As we look ahead, we anticipate a future  
that is more resource constrained,  
interconnected, and transparent than ever  
before. We know that the businesses that  
will thrive over the long term are those that  
can decouple growth from consumption,  
deliver innovation powered by a diverse  
and inclusive culture, and offer solutions to  
some of the greatest challenges that face  
business and society. With a keen focus on  
Sustainable Impact strategy 
Sustainable Impact serves as a guiding principle for  how we do business and is critical to achieving our  company vision: to create technology that makes life  better for everyone, everywhere. It is fundamental  to our reinvention journey fueling our innovation  and growth, strengthening our business for the  long-term, and enabling us to develop and deliver  the best solutions to our customers. 
Sustainable Impact is a business imperative  
and key differentiator, helping us to win over  
 900 million dollars of new revenue1 in 2018. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  49 
Sustainable Impact, we are able to capitalize  
on what we do best, which is to anticipate  
and prepare for the next wave of global  
challenges and create opportunities through  
the power of technology. 
We are driving Sustainable Impact  
across three pillars   Planet, People, and  
Community. This strategy is informed  
by materiality assessment and ongoing  
engagement with stakeholders, and reflects  
integration with our core business. 
Winning the right way 
At HP, how we do things is as important as what we do. We work every day to earn  
the trust of our stakeholders and uphold our reputation for integrity and ethical  
leadership. Our values are deeply rooted in our heritage and are embedded into our  
operating model and business strategy. We continue to look for ways to raise the bar,  
challenge ourselves, and reinvent our company to drive lasting improvements for the  
planet, people, and communities where we live, work, and do business.  
Guided by our code of business conduct, known as Integrity at HP, we apply strong  
ethics and anti-corruption principles within our operations, across our value  
chain, and in our communities. We combine strong internal governance with clear  
communication so that everyone at HP understands our principles and can put them  
into practice. Through robust policies, protocols, and controls, we protect the privacy  
of our customers and employees. To increase our impact across the industry and  
beyond, we advocate for public policies that drive progress and sustainable impact. 
In 2018, 99.69% of employees, including senior executives, and all members of our  
Board of Directors, completed Integrity at HP training. 
Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Sustainable Impact 
Our mission 
Transform our entire business to  drive a more efficient, circular,  and low-carbon economy. 
Enable our customers to invent  the future through our most  sustainable portfolio of products  and services. 
How we re  driving progress 
In 2011, the global population passed  
7 billion and that number continues to  
grow. The world s population is on pace to  
hit 9.8 billion by 2050.2 This growth will put  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  50 
tremendous stress on our natural resources.  
In fact, at our current rate of growth, by  
2050 we ll need the equivalent of 2.3 Earths  
to support us all.3 At the same time, as the  
population grows, more people will look to  
move up the economic ladder, especially in  
developing and emerging economies. And as  
incomes increase, so will consumption, putting  
additional pressure on our natural resources.  
Our aim is to transform our entire business for  
a more circular and low-carbon economy and  
offer customers our most sustainable portfolio  
Planet Sustainable Impact goals 
paper supply chain, and are more than halfway  
toward eliminating linkages to deforestation  
related to our paper-based packaging,4 so that  
our customers can be confident that printing  
with HP means supporting healthy and thriving  
forests worldwide. And, we are investing in  
disruptive technologies such as 3D printing  
that will help drive a more sustainable  
Fourth Industrial Revolution. 
of products and services so that they can  
achieve more with less environmental impact.  
Our efforts include developing solutions that  
keep materials in use at their highest state of  
value for the longest possible time, ensuring  
the materials in our products are properly  
repurposed at end of service, and shifting from  
transactional product sales to service models.  
We see the need to act on climate change as  
our responsibility and vital to the long-term  
success of our business. As such, we work to  
reduce our environmental impact across our  
entire value chain. In support of these efforts,  
we are investing in renewable electricity,  
setting public and science-based greenhouse  
gas (GHG) emissions reduction goals, and  
transparently reporting on our progress.  
Building on our decades-long expertise  
in closed-loop recycling, we have sourced  
716,000 pounds of ocean-bound plastic for use  
in our supplies and hardware (through March  
2019).  We ve eliminated deforestation from our  
Reduce potable water consumption in global  operations by 15% by 2025, compared to 2015. 
Help suppliers cut 2 million tonnes of carbon  dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions between   2010 and 2025.9 
Recycle 1.2 million tonnes of hardware and  supplies by 2025, since the beginning of 2016. 
Reduce first-tier production supplier and  product transportation-related GHG emissions  intensity by 10% by 2025, compared to 2015.8 
Goal Progress in 2018 UN SDGs 
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 
NEW GOAL Use 30% postconsumer recycled content plastic  across HP s personal systems and print product  portfolio by 2025.5  
NEW GOAL Reduce HP product use GHG emissions intensity  by 30% by 2025, compared to 2015.6 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
Achieve zero deforestation associated with  HP brand paper and paper-based product  packaging by 2020.7 
OPERATIONS 
NEW GOAL Use 100% renewable electricity in global  operations by 2035. 
NEW GOAL Reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions  from global operations by 60% by 2025,  compared to 2015. 
Use 60% renewable electricity in global  operations by 2025. 7, 13 
Through 2018, suppliers avoided  1.16 million tonnes of CO2e emissions.  Learn more. 
HP s global operations produced  229,600 tonnes of Scope 1 and Scope 2  CO2e emissions, 41% less than our 2015  baseline. Learn more. 
Through December 2017 (the most  recent year data is available), GHG  emissions intensity increased by 6%  compared to 2015. Learn more. 
Through the end of 2018, we achieved  7% postconsumer recycled content  plastic use in HP personal systems and  print products. Learn more. 
Through the end of 2018, we achieved  an 11% decrease. Learn more.  7, 12, 13 
Reached 395,200 tonnes recycled  through the end of 2018. Learn more. 12 
100% achieved for HP brand paper in  2016 and maintained that performance  through 2018. Reached 65% for paper- based product packaging. Learn more. 
HP s global operations procured and  generated 275,944 MWh of renewable  electricity and attributes, equivalent  to 47% of our global electricity  consumption. Learn more. 
Potable water consumption equaled  2,997,000 cubic meters globally, 6% less  than in 2015. Learn more. 
12, 13, 15 
Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Sustainable Impact 
Our mission 
Enable all people who help bring  our products to market to thrive  at work, at home, and in their  communities. 
Embed diversity and inclusion in  everything we do. 
How we re  driving progress 
We know that better innovation and  
business growth comes from having diverse,  
empowered people and teams. It s why  
we champion dignity, respect, equality,  
and human rights in our own business,  
within our supply chain, and beyond our  
corporate walls. In the coming decades,  
changing demographics, socioeconomic  
conditions and expectations around the  
role of corporations will radically change  
the workforce, customer requirements and  
how we create and deliver our products  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  51 
and services. Every day, our people help to  
shape our future and bring our vision to life.  
They power our innovation, contributing  
unique perspectives and a growth mindset  
to create breakthrough technologies and  
transformative solutions.  
Championing diversity and inclusion and  
respect for human rights are fundamental  
to the HP Way. Our core values shape how  
we do business worldwide. HP works to  
ensure that our products are engineered and  
manufactured with integrity and respect for  
the people who help make them.  
We strive to protect and empower all workers  
across our value chain. Our expectations  
around environmental management, labor  
management, audit scores, and minerals  
sourcing are all integrated into our supplier  
Sustainability Scorecard, which is embedded  
into each supplier s overall procurement  
score. On top of this, we invest in capability  
building, skills training and wellness  
programs to help ensure that the people  
who make our products can thrive at work, at  
home, and in their communities.  
Fostering diversity and inclusion is a  
business imperative and essential to serving  
our global customers. To this end, we embed  
diversity and inclusion into everything we  
do starting at the top. In fact, our Board  
of Directors is the most diverse of any U.S.  
technology company. We encourage our  
suppliers and partners to commit to diversity  
and inclusion goals, and invest in programs  
and partnerships that build the pipeline for  
diverse talent. And we are committed to  
creating inclusive technology that affirms  
human dignity, promotes independence, and  
unleashes creativity. 
Double factory participation11 in our supply  chain sustainability programs by 2025, compared  to 2015. 
Sustainable Impact goals 
Goal Progress in 2018 UN SDGs 
Develop skills and improve wellbeing of 500,000  factory workers by 2025, since the beginning of  2015. 
255,400 supplier factory workers have  participated in programs since the  beginning of 2015.10 Learn more. 
Factory participation decreased by 3%  compared to 2015, due in large part to  changes in the composition of our supply  chain in 2018. Learn more. 
Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Sustainable Impact 
Our mission 
Unlock educational and economic  opportunity through the power of  technology. 
Improve the vitality and resilience  of our local communities. 
How we re  driving progress 
At HP, we know that technology can connect  
communities to a world of opportunity. But  
for a large portion of society, participating  
in a rapidly evolving and connected world  
remains out of reach. Ensuring that people  
have access to technology, transformational  
learning opportunities, and support to  
tackle pressing local issues is essential to  
building an inclusive economy with vibrant  
communities everywhere.  
We believe that education is a fundamental  
human right, and that technology can be  
the great equalizer. As technology evolves,  
learning and skill-building must evolve  
in lockstep. Classrooms and learning  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  52 
methods must be lean, flexible, and ready  
to pivot in order to prepare students for  
lifelong learning. Through our products and  
solutions, global programs, and strategic  
partnerships, we are helping deliver quality  
technology-enabled learning that engages  
students, empowers educators, and  
unlocks economic opportunity. Innovation  
is accelerating at an incredible pace the  
generation now entering the workforce,  
Generation Z, was the first born into a world  
where Internet and smartphones exist. These  
digital natives will make up 36% of the global  
workforce by 2020,12 and they come with new  
expectations and a different style of working.  
The generation that follows, which some call  
Generation Alpha, will evolve even faster.  
We support lifelong learning to help prepare  
people for the future of work, so that people  
and society can thrive. 
HP has a global footprint, with operations  
in 59 countries, and customers, partners  
and suppliers in nearly every corner of  
the globe. We embrace the opportunity  
and responsibility to positively impact the  
communities where we live, work, and do  
business. Our global employees contribute  
their time, resources, and skills to help build  
vibrant, resilient, healthy communities. When  
disasters strike, we are there to assist HP,  
our employees, and the HP Foundation14  
along with our strategic partners provide  
support for affected communities. Our aim is  
to support thriving communities with greater  
equality, opportunity, and sustainability for  
everyone, everywhere. 
Sustainable Impact goals 
Goal Progress in 2018 UN SDGs 
Enable better learning outcomes for 100 million  people by 2025, since the beginning of 2015. 
Enroll 1 million HP LIFE users between 2016  and 2025. 
Contribute 1.5 million employee volunteering  hours by 2025 (cumulative since the beginning  of 2016). 
Contribute  100 million in HP Foundation  and employee community giving13 by 2025  (cumulative since the beginning of 2016). 
More than 21 million students and  adult learners have benefited from HP s  education programs and solutions that  advance quality learning and digital  literacy, and enable better learning  outcomes since the beginning of 2015.  Learn more. 
166,000 users have enrolled in HP LIFE  courses since 2016. Learn more. 4, 5, 8  
HP employees have contributed  284,000 volunteer hours to local  impact projects through 2018.  Learn more. 
Giving from the HP Foundation and  employees reached  23.21 million  through 2018. Learn more. 
Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Sustainable Impact 
United Nations Sustainable   Development Goals 
HP supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and remains committed  
to driving progress on select goals that are closely aligned to our Sustainable Impact strategy. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  53 
Goal HP s contribution 
HP is building effective and innovative education solutions for millions of people  worldwide, including women and girls, and underrepresented and marginalized  groups. Our goal is to enable better learning outcomes for 100 million people by  2025, since the beginning of 2015, by deploying breakthrough technology solutions  that support engaging, personalized educational experiences  partnering to develop  scalable models for digital inclusion and lifelong learning  and delivering insights that  help governments create effective education and human capital development policies  and programs. 
HP s commitment to gender equality starts at the top, with the most diverse Board  of Directors of any U.S. technology company. We work to grow the pipeline of diverse  talent and to recruit and develop female and diverse talent across all levels of the  company. We also use our scale to influence our suppliers and partners, encouraging  them to prioritize diversity and inclusion within their own operations. 
HP is investing in energy efficiency and shifting toward less GHG-intensive energy  sources, including on- and off-site renewable power, with the goal of reaching 100%  renewable electricity use in our global operations by 2035. 
HP believes that all workers deserve fair treatment, safe working conditions, and  freely chosen employment. We forbid any forced, bonded, or indentured labor,  involuntary prison labor, slavery, or trafficking of persons within our supply chain, and  have adopted a broad approach to responsible minerals sourcing to help ensure there  is no connection between the materials used in HP products and armed violence or  human rights abuses. 
HP strives to uphold fundamental rights and freedoms of all people. We promote a  welcoming, diverse, and inclusive culture and do not tolerate discrimination of any  kind. Through leading policies, programs, and partnerships, we aim to promote social  and economic inclusion for all people across our supply chain and operations  regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, nationality, ability, military status, religion,  generation, sexual orientation, or views. 
Goal HP s contribution 
Through contributions from HP, the HP Foundation, and our global employees,  we aim to make a positive local impact on the communities where HP employees,  customers, and suppliers live, work, and do business. We provide financial support  for communities affected by natural disasters and emergencies, and work with  expert partners to speed recovery and reconnect vital networks. HP employees also  contribute their talents, passions, and resources to support inclusive, safe, resilient,  and sustainable communities worldwide. 
HP is transforming how we design, produce, deliver, and reuse products to drive  progress toward a more efficient, circular, and low-carbon economy. We aim to  develop solutions that keep materials in use at their highest state of value for the  longest possible time, grow the market for recycled content, and offer robust repair,  reuse, and recycling programs for our products worldwide. And, we are investing in  disruptive technologies such as 3D printing that will help drive a more sustainable and  inclusive Fourth Industrial Revolution. 
We are reducing GHG emissions across our value chain in partnership with our supply  chain, through science-based emissions reduction targets for our operations and  setting a GHG emissions intensity reduction goal for our product portfolio. We continue  to support coordinated global action to combat climate change, including through  Paris Climate Accord commitments and as a signatory to We Are Still In. We also  support investments into renewable electricity in our operations and within our supply  chain.  
HP is committed to driving positive, local impact in the communities where we live,  work, and do business. Each community faces different challenges and requires  different solutions. By working closely with local partners corporate peers,  nonprofits, local governments and others we tailor our approach to address the  unique needs and challenges of each community to help them thrive. 
Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Sustainable Impact 
Recognition 
HP is recognized as one of the world s most sustainable companies. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  54 
Named for the 3rd year in a row  
to Global 100 Most Sustainable  
Corporations in the World list 
Named to 2018 CDP Climate Change  
 A  List for the 5th consecutive year   
achieved a spot on 2019 Supplier  
Engagement Leader Board  for the  
3rd consecutive year  received a  
leadership score on CDP s Forest  
evaluation for the 3rd year in a row 
Placed 5th in ranking of the world s  
most responsible organizations 1st  
in the Climate Change pillar 
Ranked 4th on the 2018 list of the  
100 Most Sustainable U.S. Companies 
Rose two spots in the Computer  
Industry category to 3rd place Ranked 2nd in 2018 for  
Recognized for continued  
commitment to delivering product  
energy efficiency for 2nd year in a row 
Ranked 5th on the Q1 2019  
list, recognizing publicly traded  
companies that are leading  
the way with solutions for the  
transition to a clean energy future 
Received a Gold rating for the  
9th consecutive year 
With 2018 rankings, listed on the  
World Index for the 7th time in a row 
commitment to address forced  
labor in the supply chain  
Named one of Canada s Greenest  
Employers for 12th year in a row 
Ranked by Profiles in Diversity Journal  
for the 4th consecutive year 
Ranked 20th overall and 2nd for  
technology companies on Thomson  
Reuters 2018 Diversity   Inclusion  
HP Brazil recognized for sustainability  
efforts for 6th time 
Ranked 7th on Gartner s annual  
Supply Chain Top 25 list with a perfect  
10 10 for efforts in corporate social  
responsibility 
Placed among the 31 leading  
participating organizations 
Named among top Best Large  
Employers in America in annual ranking 
Listed 13th on 2019 Workforce 100  
ranking of world s top companies for  
human resources  
Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Sustainable Impact 
Stakeholder engagement 
The success of our Sustainable Impact  
strategy relies on engagement with a range  
of stakeholders, including employees,  
investors, suppliers, customers, peer  
companies, public policy makers, industry  
bodies, nongovernmental organizations  
(NGOs), sector experts, and others. These  
interactions build our collective intelligence,  
help us prioritize critical issues, and provide  
insights on emerging opportunities and risks.  
Individual functions across the company  
drive our decentralized approach, engaging  
in ways that are most relevant to their  
objectives and operations. These include  
partnerships, sponsorships, collaboration on  
industry initiatives, customer and supplier  
education, supplier capability-building  
programs, supplier audits and assessments,  
conference participation, employee  
surveys, mentoring, and more. We identify  
appropriate stakeholders based on factors  
such as expertise, willingness to collaborate,  
reputation, location, and sphere of influence.  
Examples include:  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  55 
  Circular economy: Through the Ellen  
  Energy and GHG emissions: To extend  
MacArthur Foundation Circular Economy 100,  
we collaborate to drive progress toward a  
more materials and energy-efficient future.  
See Circular economy. 
our influence, we join leading companies  
in goal-setting efforts, including RE100  
Numerous additional examples are included  
throughout this report. 
  Privacy: Our privacy and government  
  IT for sustainable development: Working  
  Product energy efficiency: We share our  
  Paper and printed material: We work  
  Supply chain responsibility: As a founding  
and WWF Climate Savers. See Footprint. 
and our suppliers to ensure the fiber we  
use is responsibly sourced. See Paper.  
with partners such as the UN Women  
Global Innovation Coalition for Change,  
Black Girls Code, and Women Deliver, HP  
helps to bridge the gender digital divide.  
See Global education programs. 
with WWF Global Forest   Trade Network   
North America, Forest Stewardship Council,  
relations teams work with policymakers  
to support robust and globally  
interoperable privacy and data protection  
regulations. See Government relations. 
leading practices across the industry,  
including by contributing to standards  
development that impact product  
sustainability. HP serves on the EPEAT   
Advisory Council and helped lead the  
working group to revise IEEE 1680.1,  
the standard used by EPEAT for PCs and  
displays, which took effect in 2018. 
member of Responsible Business Alliance  
(RBA), we are part of a consortium of  
companies driving improvements in global  
supply chains. See External collaboration. 
Governance 
At all levels of the company, starting with our  
Board of Directors, we embed Sustainable  
Impact throughout our strategy, policies,  
programs, and value chain.  
The HP Board of Directors  Nominating,  
Governance and Social Responsibility (NGSR)  
Committee oversees the company s policies  
and programs relating to global citizenship  
and the impact of HP s operations, provides  
guidance and recommendations to the  
Board on legal, regulatory, and compliance  
matters relating to political, environmental,  
global citizenship, and public policy trends,  
and reviews the annual Sustainable Impact  
Report. The Committee receives regular  
updates on key sustainability metrics and  
results. Listen to NGSR Committee members  
talk about Sustainable Impact at HP. 
Our executive leadership team, led by  
our CEO, retains overall responsibility for  
Sustainable Impact as part of our business  
strategy. A team of executives, led by our  
Global Head of Sustainability and Product  
Compliance, sets HP s Sustainable Impact  
strategy and drives progress company- 
wide. These leaders also provide updates  
to the NGSR Committee and other relevant  
executive committees. 
HP s VP and Global Head of Sustainability  
and Product Compliance has her  
performance and compensation directly  
associated with the management of  
Sustainable Impact and the achievement  
of related targets and metrics, both public  
and internal, including product energy  
efficiency. Other executives have quarterly  
goals metrics tied to our Sustainable  
Impact strategy including GHG emissions  
reduction goals. Several other HP directors  
and managers have a component of their  
total compensation (salary and bonus)  
based on responsibility for, and effective  
implementation of, corporate initiatives to  
address climate change. 
In 2018, all three of our businesses  
Personal Systems, Print, and 3D Printing   
developed and approved their own  
Sustainable Impact strategies. These  
strategies are being managed and driven  
by a dedicated team that reports to each  
business group s executive. 
Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Sustainable Impact 
Materiality 
We periodically conduct materiality assessments to  
review relevant environmental, social, and governance  
topics, reconfirm our long-standing areas of focus,  
and clarify and shape our Sustainable Impact strategy,  
investments, and disclosure. This enables us to focus  
on the areas where we can have the greatest positive  
impact, determine any gaps, and identify relevant trends  
and leadership opportunities for our business. We have  
set aggressive goals related to several of our most  
material topics, to manage performance and drive long- 
term progress.  
Through our external consultant BSR, in 2017 we  
engaged experts and leaders from across HP as well as  
select external topic experts. The process took leading  
reporting frameworks into account, including the  
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting  
Standards and the Sustainability Accounting Standards  
Board (SASB) Technology and Communications Hardware  
Standard. It also used data analytics to assess the  
importance of non-financial topics to industry peers and  
regulatory stakeholders. 
The resulting matrix maps topics by relative importance  
to sustainable development and to HP s business  
success. Items in the four upper-right-hand sections fall  
above the materiality threshold for the purpose of this  
report. Topics below the materiality threshold are not  
covered in as much detail, but remain important to HP.  
See details about the results and key themes that the  
assessment uncovered. 
Our material issues list includes definitions, corresponding  
GRI Standards Topics, and the boundary of each Topic. Relative importance to HP s business success Low High 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  56 
Relative importance to sustainable development Low High 
HP 2017 materiality assessment 
  Access to technology 
  Freedom of expression 
  Natural disaster relief 
  Executive compensation 
   Sale and misuse of IT  products and services 
   Corporate governance  
  Intellectual property      protection 
  Packaging 
  Product transportation 
  Public policy 
  Collaborative economy 
  Responsible marketing 
  Taxes paid 
   Workforce reductions  and relocations 
  Circular economy 
  Energy and GHG emissions 
   IT for sustainable     development 
  Paper and printed material 
  Product energy efficiency 
  Supply chain responsibility 
  Data and product security 
  Diversity and inclusion 
  Ethics and anti-corruption 
  Health and safety 
   Transparency,  accountability, and  reporting 
  Additive manufacturing  
   Employee development  and engagement 
  Supply chain resilience 
Executive summary Appendix Products and solutions Operations Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Sustainable Impact 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  57 
58 Carbon and climate impact 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Footprint 
our operations and millions of customers  
worldwide. The insights we gain through  
this process help us to continually improve  
and create positive and sustainable impact  
on the planet, our people, and communities  
where we live, work, and do business.  
We have set ambitious GHG emissions  
reduction goals across the value chain to  
drive progress. Our first-generation Scope 1  
and Scope 2 GHG emissions and Scope 3 GHG  
emissions intensity reduction goals were  
validated in June 2017 by the Science Based  
Targets initiative (SBTi). Based on progress  
and re-baselining in 2018, we worked with  
WWF Climate Savers and other specialists to  
update our science-based Scope 1 and 2 GHG  
emission target which we have submitted to  
the SBTi in 2019 for validation.  
The manufacturing, delivery, and use  
of HP products and solutions requires a  
substantial amount of natural resources.  
As part of our commitment to protecting  
the planet, HP measures our environmental  
footprint across the value chain to prioritize  
areas for improvement. We were the first  
company in the IT industry to publish a  
full carbon footprint and one of the first to  
disclose a complete water footprint. Our  
carbon and water footprints1 cover our  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  58 
entire global value chain, from suppliers2 to  
Chain, WWF Climate Savers, and the Step Up  
We also provide suppliers incentives to set and  
meet their own goals. In 2018, we updated our  
supplier environmental management criteria  
to include science-based GHG emissions  
reduction targets and third-party verification  
of GHG emissions. To extend our influence  
within and beyond our industry, we join  
leading companies in GHG goalsetting and  
reduction efforts including RE100, CDP Supply  
Declaration alliance launched at the 2018  
Global Climate Action Summit.  
1% Operations 
46% Supply chain 
2018 carbon footprint 
44,699,600 tonnes C02e 
more than in 2017. Growth in PC and printer  
sales increased emissions in the production  
and product use phases. These factors  
offset reductions from design innovation and  
product portfolio shifts. 
Carbon and climate  impact  
We strive to reduce the climate impact of  
our supply chain, operations, and products  
and solutions. HP s carbon footprint in 2018  
equaled 44,699,600 tonnes of CO2e, 9%  
53% Products and solutions 
facilities, and Products and solutions. 
See a full list of our GHG emissions reduction  
goals and progress.  
See our full carbon footprint data for 2015   
2018 and details about our methodology in  
the HP carbon accounting manual.  
Learn more about how we reduce GHG  
emissions across our business in Supply chain  
responsibility: Environmental impact, Our  
Climate change risks  and opportunities 
Climate change presents a broad range of  
risks and opportunities for HP. We follow  
structured processes to identify and assess  
those items and have developed programs  
to address those across our value chain. 
Our Board of Directors  Nominating,  
Governance, and Social Responsibility  
(NGSR) committee is responsible for  
overseeing HP s sustainability initiatives,  
and may review, assess, report, and provide  
guidance to management and the board  
regarding HP s policies and programs  
relating to sustainability issues, including  
climate change. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Footprint 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  59 
Identification and assessment1 Key risks and opportunities Management 
Enterprise risk management  
Business continuity planning (BCP) 
Product standards and  regulations tracking engagement 
Megatrends 
Materiality assessment 
Business processes for addressing climate-related impacts  
Transition risks in regulations (e.g., impact of current  or potential product energy efficiency regulations or  standards as well as carbon and energy taxes) 
Acute physical risks (e.g., impact of extreme  weather-related events on HP and supplier  operations and transportation infrastructure  networks) 
Chronic physical risks (e.g., impact of rising sea  levels and mean temperatures on HP and supplier  facilities, energy consumption, water availability,  and workforce productivity) 
Opportunities 
Business resilience (e.g., increase energy efficiency  and use of renewable energy in HP and supplier  operations) 
Low-carbon circular product and service innovation  (e.g., service-based business models, closed-loop  materials use) 
Access to new markets (e.g., manufacturing with 3D  printing  publishing and packaging with digital printing)  
Transition risks in technology and markets (e.g.  product eco-label certifications to meet customer  requirements preferences) 
Research and development 
Products and solutions portfolio 
Design for Sustainability program 
Eco-label certifications 
Regulations tracking and assessment 
Policy engagement 
HP Global Resiliency and BCP 
HP supply chain visualization tool 
LEED building standards  
Water risk assessments  
Supplier environmental requirements 
Operations energy use, GHG emissions reduction, and  
sustainability programs investments  
Supplier Strategic Energy Management Program and Energy  
Efficiency Program 
Research and development 
Design for Sustainability 
Products and solutions portfolio 
Many parts of the world grapple with the  
availability and quality of water, and HP is  
committed to calculating, disclosing, and  
reducing water use across our global value  
chain. In 2018, our water footprint equaled  
254,206,000 cubic meters, 8% more than  
2017. Business growth and improved  
data (see Energy efficiency) contributed  
to increased water consumption in the  
production and product use phases. These  
factors offset reductions from design  
innovation and product portfolio shifts. 
See our full water footprint data for 2015  
2018 and a description of our methodology  
in the HP water accounting manual.  
Learn more about how we reduce water  
use across our business in Supply chain  
responsibility: Environmental impact, Our  
facilities, and Products and solutions. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Footprint 
Carbon footprint (Scopes 1 3)  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  60 
GHG emissions intensity    [tonnes CO2e     million of net revenue] 7.6 6.8 4.8 3.9 
GHG emissions from operations   [tonnes CO2e] 388,700 328,400 249,200 229,600 
GHG emissions by scope [tonnes CO2e] 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 60,700 60,900 65,700 66,200 
Asia Pacific and Japan 53,600 93,000 128,800 111,900 
Americas 274,400 174,500 54,700 51,500 
Scope 1 emissions, by region 66,900 60,700 66,200 65,900 
Scope 1 emissions, by type 
Americas 54,800 48,700 52,000 48,800 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 10,600 10,100 13,100 15,300 
Natural gas 28,800 28,100 29,400 29,300 
Diesel gas oil LPG     800 200 400 100 
Asia Pacific and Japan 1,500 1,900 1,100 1,800 
Transportation fleet  32,700 29,600 31,400 32,200 
Refrigerants (hydrofluorocarbons  (HFCs))   1,700 100 400 600 
Americas 1,500 0 0 100 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 4,400 3,900 5,300 5,700 
Asia Pacific and Japan 1,100 1,600 600 1,400 
Americas 700 200 200 100 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 
Asia Pacific and Japan 300 300 300 400 
Americas 26,400 23,200 23,700 22,700 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 6,000 6,100 7,400 9,100 
Americas 23,300 22,600 23,500 22,200 
Asia Pacific and Japan 100 0 200 0 
2015 2016 2017 2018 
Scope 2 (market-based method)    
Scope 2 emissions, by type 321,800 267,700 183,000 163,700 
Scope 2 emissions, by region 321,800 267,700 183,000 163,700 
Purchased electricity for operations 321,800 267,700 182,100 162,400 
Americas 219,600 125,800 2,700 2,700 
District cooling and heating  (purchased) for operations 0 0 900 1,300 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 50,100 50,800 52,600 50,900 
Asia Pacific and Japan 52,100 91,100 127,700 110,100 
Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) 2,900 2,700 4,600 3,700 
Nitrous Oxide (N2O)[tonnes CO2e] 0 0 0 0 
Methane (CH4) [tonnes CO2e] 0 0 0 0 
Americas 219,600 125,800 2,700 2,700 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 200 100 400 500 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 
Americas 0 0 0 0 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 50,100 50,800 52,600 50,900 
Americas 0 0 0 0 
Asia Pacific and Japan 52,100 91,100 126,800 108,800 
Americas 0 0 0 0 
Americas 2,900 2,700 4,600 3,700 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 
2015 2016 2017 2018 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Footprint 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  61 
Scope 3     [tonnes CO2e]  36,250,000 35,860,000 40,770,000 44,470,000 
Scope 2 (location-based method) 
Scope 2 emissions, by type 298,200 221,000 265,100 252,300 
Capital goods (category 2)  200,000 200,000 200,000  200,000  
Materials extraction through  manufacturing (category 1  also see  Greenhouse gas emissions on page 77) 
Transport (categories 4 and 9  also see  Product transportation on page 78)   1,300,000 1,300,000 1,500,000  1,800,000  
Upstream energy production  (category 3)   100,000 100,000 100,000  100,000  
Business travel (category 6)   50,000 60,000 70,000 70,000 
Product end of service (category 12)       De minimis De minimis 200,000 200,000 
Employee commuting (category 7)  200,000 200,000 200,000 200,000 
Scope 2 emissions, by region 298,200 221,000 265,100 252,300 
Processing of sold products (category  10)  De minimis De minimis De minimis De minimis  
Waste generated in operations  (category 5)  De minimis     De minimis  De minimis De minimis 
Upstream leased assets (category 8)    De minimis De minimis De minimis De minimis 
Product use (category 11)    19,100,000 19,300,000 22,000,000 23,300,000 
District cooling and heating  (purchased) for operations 0 0 900 1,300 
Purchased electricity for operations 298,200 221,000 264,200 251,000 
Americas 0 0 0 0 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 39,700 39,000 69,300 61,600 
Asia Pacific and Japan 52,100 91,100 114,900 117,800 
Americas 206,400 90,900 80,000 71,600 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 900 1,300 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 900 1,300 
Americas 206,400 90,900 80,000 71,600 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 39,700 39,000 69,300 61,600 
Asia Pacific and Japan 52,100 91,100 115,800 119,100 
15,300,000 14,700,000 16,500,000  18,600,000 
2015 2016 2017 2018 
      HP changed its calculation methodology beginning in 2017 to avoid netted emissions from product recycling. 
     Data in this section uses the market-based method. Due to the availability and feasibility of acquiring the data, the company  only obtained supplier-specific emission rates for its Boise, Idaho, Indianapolis Indiana, and Palo Alto and San Bernardino,  California, United States, sites. 
      The 2017 value has been restated compared to the data reported in the HP 2017 Sustainable Impact Report, due to updates  to the product use value (category 11). See     for detail. 
    These figures are based on product life cycle assessment-based estimates. They use a combination of HP-specific and  industry data, and include additional upstream and downstream transport related to our products, as well as retail and  storage. This data may differ from data reported by product transportation suppliers that HP contracts to deliver our  products, as presented on pages 78 and 85. 
    HP s global travel agency provides values which take into account the type of aircraft, passenger load, cabin class, and miles  traveled for each ticketed trip. This data also includes rail travel carrier and distance traveled. Although these values fall  below our quantitative reporting threshold of less than 0.25% of total Scope 3 emissions and could be reported as de minimis,  we choose to report this category due to our ability to directly track this data, our level of influence over these emissions, and  stakeholder expectations in this category. 
     All facilities accounted for in Scope 1 and 2. Leased furniture and equipment are included in capital goods (category 2). 
     In 2016, we added commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, which use large amounts of paper, to our product  use footprint calculations. Total GHG emissions from product use in 2017 differs by less than 1% from the value reported on  page 126, due to rounding. Total GHG emissions from product use in 2018 differs by less than 1% from the value reported  on pages 108 and 126, due to rounding. Data for 2017 and 2018 better reflect average laser printer paper usage. This  represented the majority of the increase compared to 2015 and 2016. The 2017 value has been restated compared to the data  reported in the HP 2017 Sustainable Impact Report, to improve comparability with 2018. Scope 3 emissions from inkjet and  LaserJet printers that HP manufactures for sale and service by other original equipment manufacturers is excluded from this  data. In 2018, these printers represented less than 0.7% of HP printers manufactured in the reporting year and consequently,  their associated emissions represented less than 0.2% of the product life cycle emissions of all HP manufactured printers.  Scope 1 and 2 emissions from the manufacturing of these printers at HP operated facilities is captured in the Scope 1 and 2  data reported in this year s report. 
    Total includes HP s reported values for Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based method emissions in table.   
     Emissions-intensity value was calculated using HP s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and Scope 1 and  Scope 2 GHG emissions.  
      HP does not estimate or extrapolate diesel use for nonreporting sites.  
    CO2e emissions associated with CH4 and N2O account for less than 1% of total CO2e emissions in this category. 
    To calculate Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 emissions, HP has followed the principles outlined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.  Additional details on calculations and methodology can be found in the HP carbon accounting manual. Taking into account the  separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years relates to supply chain, operations,  and products and solutions associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. HP selected 2015 as its baseline  because it provided a year-over-year comparison for HP Inc. when it first reported as a separate company for 2016 following  the separation of Hewlett Packard Company in November 2015. 2015 continues to serve as base year for several HP goals as  well. This report includes updated data for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from facilities, back to the baseline of 2015,  per guidance in the GHG Protocol, to reflect sites that came under HP operational control following the acquisition of Samsung  Electronics Co., Ltd. s printer business on November 1, 2017 (see About our operational data). 
    Scope 2 GHG emissions used to calculate this category were determined using the location-based method.   
    For 2015 and 2016, we calculated ozone-depleting substances emissions by tracking sites that reported refrigerant  replacement due to leakage, and applied an intensity factor (based on those actual quantities) for nonreporting sites. In 2017,  HP transitioned to a system that tracks all refrigerant invoices company-wide, directly accounting for facilities  refrigerant  leakage and use and eliminating the need for extrapolation. 
     De minimis values are less than 0.25% of total Scope 3 emissions. 
Buildings leased to others (category 13)  De minimis  De minimis  De minimis De minimis 
Franchises (category 14)  Not applicable  Not applicable  Not applicable Not applicable 
Investments (category 15)  De minimis  De minimis  De minimis De minimis 
2015 2016 2017 2018 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Footprint 
    This metric reports the amount of water consumed by HP s multi-tier supply chain, and not the amount withdrawn by first-tier  suppliers as reported in Supply chain responsibility: Environmental impact. Because water withdrawn can also be returned,  water consumption is inherently lower. 
     Indirect water consumption from inkjet and LaserJet printers that HP manufactures for sale and service by other original  equipment manufacturers is excluded from this data. In 2018, these printers represented less than 0.7% of HP printers  manufactured in the reporting year and consequently, their associated indirect water consumption during product use  represented less than 0.7% of the product life cycle water consumption of all HP manufactured printers. Water consumption  from the manufacturing of these printers at HP operated facilities is captured in the direct water consumption data reported in  this year s report. 
      In 2016, we added commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, which use large amounts of paper, to our footprint  calculations. Data for 2017 and 2018 better reflect average laser printer paper usage. This represented the majority of the  increase compared to 2015 and 2016. The 2017 value has been restated compared to the data reported in the HP 2017  Sustainable Impact Report, to improve comparability with 2018. 
Water footprint  
    Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years relates  to supply chain, operations, and products and solutions associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc.  Additional details on calculations and methodology can be found in the HP water accounting manual. This report includes  updated water and electricity consumption data from operations, back to the baseline of 2015, to reflect sites that came  under HP operational control following the acquisition of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. s printer business on November 1,  2017 (see About our operational data). 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  62 
Water consumption in HP operations [cubic meters]  3,953,000 3,534,000 3,243,000 3,406,000 
Water consumed by HP suppliers in their  operations  [cubic meters]  13,900,000 12,600,000 13,400,000 15,000,000 
Water consumption associated with the  manufacturing of paper used by HP customers with  HP products     [cubic meters]  
Water consumption associated with the generation  of electricity used in HP operations [cubic meters]  3,100,000 2,600,000 2,800,000 2,600,000 
Water consumption associated with the generation  of electricity used by HP suppliers [cubic meters]  34,800,000 31,800,000 34,300,000 38,400,000 
Water consumption associated with the generation  of electricity used by HP products     [cubic meters]  106,900,000 103,300,000 96,400,000 106,100,000 
46,800,000 52,900,000 84,900,000 88,700,000 
2015 2016 2017 2018 
Executive summary Appendix Products and solutions Operations Supply chain responsibility Footprint Sustainable Impact 
Integrity and   human rights 
64 Ethics and anti-corruption 
66 Human rights 
68 Privacy 
70 Government relations 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  63 
Integrity and human rights 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix Integrity and human rights 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
We expect everyone at HP to meet the highest  
ethical standards and to treat others with  
integrity, respect, and fairness. A complete  
commitment to our values underpins our  
efforts, reinforced by in-depth training and  
communication, and upheld through targeted  
policies and strong governance.  
HP is committed to complying with all  
applicable laws and regulations everywhere  
we operate. We require ethical conduct by  
our suppliers and partners, and use our scale  
and influence to drive progress across the  
broader IT industry. See Human rights and  
Supply chain responsibility.  
Training and  communication  
Our annual Integrity at HP training covers key  
policies, procedures, and high-risk issues that  
employees might face, and includes content  
on anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, and  
privacy. In 2018, we incorporated scenarios  
based on actual investigations, and provided  
frontline employees and select partners  
in higher-risk countries with online and in- 
person training. During the year, all members  
of HP s Board of Directors attended a live  
Integrity at HP training session.  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  64 
Regular engagement through training,  
newsletters, a poster campaign at select  
sites, and coffee talks helps to reinforce  
Integrity at HP. Integrity Central is a new,  
comprehensive library of ready-to-use  
collateral on key ethics topics. It includes  
the tools and resources necessary to help  
employees know how to win the right way. 
During 2018, the Ethics Office launched a  
four-part video series to improve awareness  
globally on compliance trends and how to  
handle ethical dilemmas. The videos, with  
subtitles in Korean, Chinese, and Spanish,  
received more than 3,000 views. During the  
year, the Ethics Office also recognized eight  
 Ethics Champions,  employees who showed  
outstanding ethical leadership and modeled  
HP values.  
ethics training goal Maintain greater than 99% completion  rate of annual Integrity at HP (formerly  Standards of Business Conduct) training  among active HP employees and the  Board of Directors 
progress in 2018  99.69% 
of employees, including senior  executives, completed Integrity at HP  training, as well as all members of our  Board of Directors 
 As of January 31, 2019. 
See Governance for the board s composition, committees and charters, as well as our company  
bylaws and Corporate Governance Guidelines. 
Board of Directors Audit Committee Provides nonexecutive input and guidance to the Ethics and Compliance O ice. 
Board of Directors  The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing ethics and compliance at HP.  The board consists of 11 directors and Chip Bergh is the Chairman. All members are independent directors excluding Dion Weisler, President and Chief Executive O icer, HP Inc. 
Specific responsibilities include oversight of Integrity at HP, coordination of  the company s Compliance Assessment Program, management of anti-corruption and privacy, and the design and management of processes that prevent, mitigate, and remediate all related business impacts. 
0 20 40 60 80 100 
Ethics and compliance governance at HP 
Manages ethical issues across our global operations. 
Ethics and Compliance O ice (within Global Legal A airs) 
Ethics and Compliance Committee Composed of HP executives, provides oversight and guidance on the design and implementation of our ethics and compliance program. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix Integrity and human rights 
Total number of reported items in 2018: 161 
   Includes allegations of commercial bribery, kickbacks, and  Global Business Amenities Policy violations, as well as  alleged corruption related to foreign public officials. 
Reporting concerns  
We make it easy for our employees and third  
parties to ask questions or report ethics  
concerns. Reporting avenues include email,  
an internal online form, a global 24-hour  
toll-free phone line with translation, mail,  
or in person. We offer anonymous reporting  
options where allowed by law. At any time,  
employees can also reach out to their  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  65 
Conflicts of interest 20% 
Human resources 13% 
Anti-corruption  11% 
Misuse of assets 11% 
Sales channel violations 7% 
Confidentiality 6% 
Workplace security 5% 
Competition 3% 
Financial and public reporting 2% 
Items reported to HP global  Integrity at HP team or other  compliance functions in 2018 
percentage of total 
supervisor or more senior managers under  
HP s Open Door Policy, seek advice from  
internal ethics and compliance experts,  
or consult local Integrity at HP teams or  
Integrity at HP liaisons. HP does not tolerate  
retaliation against anyone who raises a  
concern or question in good faith. In 2019,  
HP will launch a new ethics case reporting  
and recording system to improve how  
concerns are managed. 
Investigating concerns  
Suspected violations of our code of business  
conduct damage the trust of customers  
and other stakeholders. We take all alleged  
violations seriously, respond quickly,  
and take disciplinary or remedial actions  
when appropriate. HP uses a wide range  
of disciplinary sanctions when dealing  
with ethical violations. These include  
additional coaching, written warnings, and  
termination. 
Representatives from our legal,  
controllership, and human resources teams  
conduct local investigations. Escalated  
allegations are passed to a dedicated global  
integrity investigations team.  
HP s investigation process continues to  
evolve, with improved resources and  
technology to perform investigation- 
related functions in-house and deal with  
concerns promptly. This approach creates  
new opportunities for employees to discuss  
concerns outside of formal investigations.  
Additionally, our new global case  
management tool, which will launch in 2019,  
will enable us to identify emerging trends  
in ethics violations and determine where  
additional controls may be needed.  
Anti-corruption  
Corruption disrupts fair competition and is  
at odds with HP values. We do not tolerate  
corrupt behavior of any kind, including  
bribery and kickbacks.  
Our Anti-corruption Policy and compliance  
program require our employees, partners,  
and suppliers to comply with all applicable  
national laws and regulations including the  
U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK  
Bribery Act. 
Risk assessment  and audits  
We use internal data and Transparency  
International s Corruption Perceptions Index  
to detect high-risk regions, assess risks  
related to third-party business partners,  
and then alert the relevant employees.  
We benchmark our approach against peer  
companies to identify best practices in areas  
including operational procedures, employee  
education, and supplier and partner training  
and monitoring. In 2018, we adopted new  
reporting tools to develop more efficient  
and effective ways to assess and analyze  
corruption risks. 
HP also conducts regular audits focused on  
potential corruption risks, including audits  
of our own operations. In 2017, we assessed  
corruption-related risks across HP s global  
operations, including a detailed review of  
the company s global policies and processes  
applicable to all business units and global  
functions worldwide. We also conducted  
risk-based reviews of third parties, including  
sales intermediaries or  agents,  suppliers,  
lobbyists, and channel partners, focusing on  
organizations with high-risk profiles.    
Training and  communication  
We deliver comprehensive anti-corruption  
content to all employees through annual  
Integrity at HP training. We also communicate  
year-round to reinforce policies, controls,  
and training. In 2018, over 18,000 employees  
completed targeted anti-corruption training,  
in addition to 17 face-to-face and virtual  
sessions for select employees. Of this total,  
32% were in the Americas, 39% in Asia  
Pacific and Japan, and 29% in Europe, Middle  
East, and Africa. These trainings target all  
employees who may pose a corruption risk  
to the company, including those that support  
HP s public sector business.  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix Integrity and human rights 
ethics and anti-corruption (continued) 
More than 3,100 employees (nearly 92% of  
the relevant employee base) also received  
training specifically on the requirements of  
doing business with the U.S. government.  
In 2018, HP managed the integration of  
newly acquired businesses and employees  
into HP s anti-corruption program, which  
included online anti-corruption training for  
over 780 new employees. 
We communicate HP s anti-corruption  
standards and requirements to 100% of  
our business partners, suppliers, and other  
third parties such as consultants through  
contractual terms and conditions as well as  
our Partner Code of Conduct and Supplier  
Code of Conduct. Generally, all HP partners  
and risks are mitigated through the grant-  
making process. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  66 
and suppliers are required, respectively, to  
meet HP s Partner and Supplier Codes of  
Conduct. Partners determined to represent  
higher risk receive a training in addition.  
Requirements for mitigating anti-corruption  
risk associated with charitable giving are  
communicated to employees through the  
HP Global Charitable Contributions Policy,  
Human   rights 
HP s approach to human rights spans our  
value chain and is embedded in all three  
pillars of our Sustainable Impact strategy.  
We champion equal and human rights for  
everyone we work with so that business and  
society can thrive. 
Policies and  programs 
Through our policies and programs, we insist  
that all workers across our value chain have  
fair treatment, safe working conditions, and  
freely chosen work. 
Protecting, empowering, and fairly rewarding  
our employees is a core priority. We work  
to keep our employees safe and healthy, so  
they can flourish and be at their best. Paying  
HP employees fairly and equitably, regardless  
of their gender, race, or other protected  
characteristics, is equally fundamental to  
who we are.  
Fostering diversity and inclusion is key to  
our approach and essential to delivering  
transformational business results. In our  
workplace, industry, and the communities  
where we live, work, and do business, we  
promote a welcoming, diverse, and inclusive  
culture and do not tolerate unlawful  
discrimination or harassment of any kind. 
HP recognizes the fundamental importance  
of privacy, security, and data protection to  
Governance: Human rights leadership  
comes from the highest levels of HP. Our  
CEO has approved HP s Sustainable Impact  
and Human Rights Policy and signs our  
our employees, customers, and partners  
worldwide. We strive to provide protections  
across all our operations that exceed  
legal minimums and to deploy consistent,  
rigorous policies and procedures, giving  
people confidence when sharing information  
with us and using our products. 
Our supply chain responsibility program aims  
to improve labor conditions within supplier  
factories, tackle industry-wide challenges  
such as forced labor and conflict minerals,  
and build essential skills and capabilities. 
Education is a fundamental human right. Our  
global education programs focus on better  
learning outcomes for millions through  
technology, including marginalized and  
underserved communities. When disaster  
strikes, we work fast to support recovery by  
connecting our employees and communities  
to critical services.  
annual public statement about our efforts to  
eradicate modern slavery. The Nominating,  
Governance and Social Responsibility  
Committee (NGSRC) of the Board of Directors  
oversees human rights within HP, including  
reviewing the results of the annual human  
rights assessment and approving HP s  
modern slavery statements.  
Policy commitments 
HP strives to uphold the relevant  
fundamental rights and freedoms  
of all people across our business,  
in line with the United Nations (UN)  
Universal Declaration of Human  
Rights (UDHR), the UN Guiding  
Principles for Business and Human  
Rights, and the UN Global Compact.  
The HP Sustainable Impact and  
Human Rights Policy states our  
commitment to embedding  
human rights within our business  
policies and practices, as well as  
protecting and upholding human  
rights in collaboration with our  
suppliers and partners. It includes  
our commitment to due diligence,  
workers  voice and grievance  
mechanisms, and investigation and  
remedy of adverse impacts when  
these arise. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix Integrity and human rights 
Our company-wide Human Rights Council,  
established in 2017, further strengthens  
our management of human rights risks  
across the company. It is chaired by the head  
of the Human Rights Office and includes  
senior management from Ethics and  
Investigations, Global Indirect Procurement,  
Human Resources, Privacy, Supply Chain  
Responsibility, and Technical Regulations. The  
Council meets twice a year to coordinate on  
due diligence and performance improvements  
relating to respecting human rights, and to  
approve the annual human rights assessment,  
which includes identification of salient risks  
and impacts. In 2018, the Human Rights  
Council approved an initiative to carry out  
third-party audits of a number of HP offices  
to expand our monitoring and validate the  
company s approach. 
Training: All employees and members of  
HP s Board of Directors complete annual  
Integrity at HP training, helping to strengthen  
understanding of how we conduct business  
at HP including related to human rights  
issues. HP also provides an annual training  
for relevant procurement staff that covers  
the context of forced labor and slavery,  
identification of forced labor conditions,  
company policies and standards to combat  
modern slavery, who to contact for help, and  
how to report related information. 
Grievance mechanisms: When violations  
of our policies and expectations occur, we  
offer multiple channels for our employees  
and third parties to ask questions and  
report concerns without fear of retaliation.  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  67 
Reporting avenues include email, an internal  
online form, a global 24-hour toll-free phone  
line with translation, mail, or in person. We  
offer anonymous reporting options where  
allowed by law. Learn more. 
Identifying and   addressing risk 
In 2018, we evaluated eight corporate  
functions that have a role in respecting  
the human rights of workers against  
the appropriate UN UDHR rights. We  
identified salient risks1 in our Supply Chain  
Reporting: We monitor emerging human  
rights expectations and best practices  
to continue to demonstrate leadership  
in this rapidly evolving area. We publish  
information about HP s programs, including  
our initiatives to combat forced labor and  
human trafficking (see our Modern Slavery  
Act Transparency Statement). 
Responsibility, Global Indirect Procurement,  
Human Resources, and Technical  
Regulations functions.  
Our due diligence process aims to address  
actual and potential adverse impacts in our  
operations and supply chain. This process  
is risk-based and commensurate to the  
severity and likelihood of the impact. It  
focuses on three key aspects: embedding  
responsible business conduct  ceasing,  
preventing, or remedying the impact  and  
reporting on implementation and results.  
Malfunctioning or unsafe  products 
Conflict and forced labor  associated with raw  materials extraction 
Salient risks Approach to risk mitigation and remediation 
Forced labor  
Excessive working hours  
Unsafe working  conditions 
Harassment and  discrimination 
Supply chain (Supply Chain Responsibility, Global Indirect Procurement)  Rights holders: Workers in supply chain, including vulnerable groups such as  foreign migrant, student, and female workers 
See Supply chain responsibility and our Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement.  
See Product safety.  
See Responsible minerals sourcing. 
See Diversity and inclusion. 
  Conduct risk-based due diligence across HP s supplier base  
  Prioritize suppliers for self-assessment questionnaires, capability building, and  onsite audits, and expand those programs  
  Provide remedy to victims (more than  1.2 million in repayments to over 1,000  workers) 
  Participate in multi-stakeholder initiatives that develop and encourage responsible  labor practices 
  Conduct due diligence 
  Participate in multi-stakeholder initiatives that develop and promote responsible  minerals sourcing 
  Engage with and encourage smelters to participate in responsible minerals sourcing  assurance programs and drive our suppliers to source from those smelters 
  Advance HP diversity and inclusion training and awareness programs  
  Employ rigorous design standards, product testing, certification programs, and auditing 
  Continue to evaluate HP products to assure they meet our safety standards 
Human rights risks and plans 
Products and solutions (Technical Regulations)  Rights holders: Customers 
HP Human Resources  Rights holders: Employees 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix Integrity and human rights 
The risk mitigation examples summarized in  
the chart above are intrinsic to our approach.  
See also Supply chain responsibility for  
further detail on mechanisms to assess and  
address risk, including at key trigger points  
such as onboarding new suppliers. 
Collaboration 
Our global reach provides us the opportunity  
to drive human rights progress worldwide.  
This includes engaging in public forums and  
multi-stakeholder partnerships, such as:  
We are committed to complying with  
all relevant sanctions, restrictions, and  
embargoes by national governments or  
international organizations in order to  
prevent diversion or misuse of our products. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  68 
  Chairing the steering committee of the  
  Sitting on the Advisory Board of Social  
  Participating in the steering committee  
Accountability International, creator of  
Responsible Labor Initiative, a cross- 
of the Leadership Group for Responsible  
Recruitment, a group promoting  
sustainable hiring through labor agent  
training and certification.  
the TenSquared program that improves  
worker health and safety. 
industry collaboration of the Responsible  
Business Alliance focused on workers  
vulnerable to forced labor.  
HP recognizes the fundamental importance  
of privacy, security, and data protection to  
our employees, customers, and partners  
worldwide. This commitment is a critical  
pillar of brand trust and increasingly a  
source of competitive advantage in an  
era of accelerated innovation, global data  
proliferation, and fast-changing regulatory  
frameworks. We build privacy and data  
protection into the design and development  
of our products, services, and operations.  
We strive to provide protections across all of  
our operations that exceed legal minimums,  
and to deploy consistent, rigorous policies  
and procedures, to give people confidence  
when sharing information with us and using  
our products. See our Privacy website for  
additional information. 
Our rigorous policies, standards, and  
approach aim to keep personal data safe and  
respect people s privacy: 
  Our Privacy Statement describes our  
  We maintain internal policies and  
commitments in this area. 
standards based on international data  
protection principles that cover the data  
life cycle. 
Privacy training is part of our mandatory  
Integrity at HP annual refresher course,  
completed by 99.69% of HP employees in  
2018. During the year, we also offered access  
to online courses that provide additional  
topic and role-based training opportunities.  
Starting in 2019, employees granted access  
to data systems containing high volume  
or sensitive personal data must take  
mandatory privacy training. 
We continually strengthen privacy  
protections to meet the requirements  
of changing regulations and evolving  
circumstances. This includes implementing  
  Our Data Protection Officer, together  
  HP s HIPAA Compliance Office oversees  
  The HP Privacy Accountability  
Framework outlines our procedures and  
organizational controls for assessing and  
managing risks associated with collecting  
and handling personal data. It is based  
on requirements for accountability as  
defined by the EU General Data Protection  
Regulation (GDPR) and other instruments  
around the world.  
with HP s Privacy and Data Protection  
team, provides oversight and leadership  
for compliance, working closely with  
appointed privacy leads in business teams  
throughout the company. 
compliance with Health Insurance  
Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)  
laws where they are triggered by our  
commercial services engagements.   
enhanced internal policies and procedures to  
address our obligations as a data controller  
and processor and to ensure data subject  
rights are respected.  
Privacy by Design 
HP s Privacy by Design approach  
requires that HP products,  
services, websites, systems, and  
applications processing personal  
data be designed and implemented  
only after thoughtful consideration  
of privacy implications. HP teams  
developing or making substantial  
changes in these areas must  
have a fully formed development  
plan  fill out a Privacy by Design  
questionnaire and provide any  
follow-up documentation  follow  
the appropriate documentation  
requirements based on type  
of personal data involved   
consult with HP Cybersecurity on  
appropriate security measures, as  
required  and develop appropriate  
notice language with the Privacy  
Office. Our formal review process  
focuses on privacy as a default  
setting, incorporating key principles  
of data minimization, transparency  
of purpose, and technical and  
organizational safeguards.  
See Product security and privacy. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix Integrity and human rights 
In 2018, we launched a Privacy Central  
website and made significant updates to how  
we handle data subject rights in order to make  
it easier for customers to engage with us  
about their data.  
To support compliance with the GDPR, we  
continued to implement new management and  
record-keeping tools in 2018. During the year,  
we also continued to strengthen our well- 
established privacy program by enhancing  
overall program governance through  
conducting internal and third-party assurance,  
formalizing privacy by design, and streamlining  
privacy impact assessment processes.  
Privacy and   data protection  compliance 
HP complies with worldwide privacy and data  
breach notification laws and regulations, tracks  
the number of substantiated complaints from  
third parties, and maintains an internal incident  
reporting process. Once a potential breach  
of personal data is identified, a core team  
that includes representatives from privacy,  
cybersecurity, legal, and communications,  
is responsible for the management and  
communication of potential data breaches,  
including any commercial or legal obligations  
to notify customers. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  69 
   Breaches of customer privacy cover any noncompliance  with existing legal regulations and voluntary standards  regarding the protection of customer privacy related to  data for which HP is the data controller. Substantiated  complaints are written statements by regulatory or similar  official bodies addressed to the organization that identify  breaches of customer privacy, or complaints lodged with  the organization that have been recognized as legitimate  by the organization. 
Global standards  and regulatory  environment 
The secure movement of data is essential to  
our business, and as legislation continues  
to evolve, our privacy and government  
relations teams work with governments  
worldwide to develop robust and globally  
interoperable privacy regulations. See  
Government relations for more detail. 
Substantiated complaints  from regulatory or other  official bodies 
Substantiated complaints  from outside parties  (including customers) 
Substantiated complaints  regarding breaches of  customer privacy and losses  of customer data at HP  
2016 2017 2018 
When developing and updating our privacy  
program, we consider global and domestic  
principles and frameworks including: 
We are among fewer than 140 companies  recognized by the EU for the strength of  our binding data protection rules 
HP relies on lawful mechanisms for data  
transfer which it uses to drive accountability  
across the organization. HP remains among  
fewer than 140 companies worldwide1  
recognized by EU data protection authorities  
for our binding corporate rules, reflecting  
our high standard of data protection policies  
and procedures and enabling global data  
transfer within our company. HP is also self- 
certified under the EU US Privacy Shield, and  
we comply with the Asia-Pacific Economic  
Cooperation s Cross-Border Privacy Rules.  
  EU Directive 95 46 EC 
  Organisation for Economic Co-operation  
  California Consumer Privacy Act 
  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Privacy  
  EU General Data Protection Regulation 
  Madrid Resolution on International Privacy  
and Development Guidelines on the  
Protection of Privacy and Transborder  
Flows of Personal Data 
Cybersecurity 
In our industry, hostile attempts to acquire  
personal and financial information are  
constant. HP works to block these attempts  
through robust internal controls and  
external partnerships.  
Our Cybersecurity Organization provides  
and maintains the guidance, governance,  
processes, resources, and vendor  
relationships necessary to identify unwanted  
access, security threats, and cyberattacks,  
and shield our customer and employee  
information. HP s IT partners and vendors  
deliver the technology to protect customer  
and employee information.  
Everyone at HP has a role and responsibility in  
information security, and we are committed  
to working across all business groups and  
global functions to ensure that each person  
is doing their part. Our information security  
standards and incident response processes  
and playbooks support security rigor and  
apply to a range of evolving industry threats.  
Our internal Cybersecurity Policy Suite  
provides a framework for the organization,  
governance, and implementation of  
information security across the company. It  
also informs employees about regulatory  
requirements, emerging threats, and new  
security practices, among other items. 
HP s Chief Security Advisor (CSA)  
collaborates with the company s security  
business unit, R D team, HP Labs, business  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix Integrity and human rights 
units, product teams, global functions, and  
Security Advisory Board to advance HP s  
leadership role in security. The CSA also  
leads efforts to educate HP and clients  
about security, conduct security risk  
assessments, perform analytics to establish  
security baselines,2 and create roadmaps to  
Government relations 
HP advocates for public policies that enable  
our business to grow and our customers to  
access our latest innovative technologies.  
We seek to unleash the potential of  
the Fourth Industrial Revolution in  
ways that will create jobs, spur growth,  
and promote inclusive innovation and  
sustainable impact. We advance policies  
that encourage additive manufacturing with  
3D printing, which is expected to disrupt  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  70 
continually improve those baselines.   
HP participates in cybersecurity organizations,  
boards, and or advisory boards, including  
IEEE, ISA, ISACA, ISC2, ISSA, NIST, SANS,  
and others. We conduct and participate in  
cybersecurity research to continue to uncover  
and identify cybersecurity trends and risks,  
and to drive cybersecurity innovation in our  
products, devices, services, and solutions. 
In 2018, we continued working to understand  
the techniques used by hostile actors, and  
further improved existing security controls  
and measures. During the year, HP s  
3D printing to foster creative industries,  
revolutionize manufacturing, and drive a  
sustainable and inclusive Fourth Industrial  
Revolution can be realized through a  
policy framework that facilitates adoption,  
enhances workforce education, and  
incentivizes public-private partnerships. 
information security management system  
(ISMS) achieved ISO 27001 certification. We  
also continue to bring our client services into  
alignment with ISO 27001, expanding our  
certification scope more broadly in service  
offerings such as Managed Print Services and  
Device as a Service.  
During 2018, HP did not experience  
any cybersecurity events that required  
disclosure. When incidents do occur, the  
Cybersecurity Organization responds swiftly  
and regularly reports related activities to the  
relevant leadership. A cybersecurity event  
requires external disclosure if compelled by  
applicable laws or regulations.  
Learn how HP continually enhances HP  
products, solutions, and services to address  
product security and privacy. 
and redistribute an estimated  4 6 trillion  
of the global economy in the next five to  
10 years.1 The transformative potential of  
Political  engagement 
We conduct all political engagements,  
including contributions to candidates, in a  
transparent, legal, and ethical manner and in  
accordance with HP s Political Contributions  
Policy and code of business conduct,  
Integrity at HP. Our U.S. Public Sector Code of  
Conduct guides ethical business interactions  
with federal, state, and local officials.  
Through corporate contributions and the  
HP Employee Political Action Committee  
(PAC), we support candidates for elected  
Policy priorities  
Our global Government Relations team  
leads our engagement with policymakers,  
regulators, trade associations, and peer  
companies to advance public policies that  
align with HP s interests and values and  
shape a positive climate for technology  
innovation. Our policy priorities include:  
  Intellectual property rights 
  Taxation and economic incentives 
  Data protection and privacy 
  Market access 
  Public procurement 
  Security 
  Social responsibility 
  Sustainability and product compliance 
office using established criteria, such as site  
representation and issue alignment. We  
post detailed lists of HP Employee PAC and  
corporate contributions twice annually. HP  
does not make political contributions outside  
of the United States. We also disclose U.S.  
lobbying expenditures and membership  
in U.S. trade associations that engage in  
lobbying activity.  
In 2018, HP made  300,000 in corporate  
contributions to state and local candidates  
and groups. HP spent nearly  1.9 million  
on U.S. federal lobbying, reported quarterly  
under the Lobbying Disclosure Act. The HP  
Employee PAC made  87,000 in contributions  
to federal and state candidates, party  
committees, and PACs supporting diverse  
candidates. HP did not make any in-kind  
political donations in 2018. 
In 2018, we earned a perfect score and  
tied for first place overall among S P  
500 companies in the CPA-Zicklin Index  
of Corporate Political Disclosure and  
Accountability. 
Executive summary Appendix Products and solutions Operations Integrity and human rights Footprint Sustainable Impact 
Supply chain  responsibility 
72 Approach 
74 Health and safety 
75 Responsible minerals sourcing 
76 Supplier diversity 
77 Environmental impact 
80 Audit results 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  71 
Supply chain responsibility 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
HP relies on one of the IT industry s largest  
supply chains, made up of hundreds of  
production suppliers and thousands of  
nonproduction suppliers.1 An ethical,  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  72 
sustainable, and resilient supply chain  
protects our business and brand,  
strengthens customer relationships, and  
creates opportunities to innovate. 
We insist that all workers receive fair  
treatment, freely chosen employment,  
and safe working conditions. To reduce  
environmental impact, we collaborate with  
suppliers to decrease GHG emissions, water  
use, and waste.  
Labor Health and safety Supplier diversity Environmental impact 
Our supply chain is complex, and we work to address  a broad range of social and environmental topics. 
Improving the lives of the people who make our products and strengthening the communities where they live and work 
Supply chain responsibility 
Responsible minerals sourcing 
The strength of our supply chain  
responsibility program enables us to meet  
and exceed customer expectations, in 2018,  
more than  2.5 billion in new, retained,  
and potential revenue took supply chain  
responsibility into account.2 
For an overview of our management  
approach in this area, including areas such  
as risk assessment, policies and standards,  
continuous improvement, capability building,  
external collaboration, and reporting, see  
Our approach to a sustainable supply chain. 
Driving Sustainable Impact  throughout the supply chain3 
In 2018, the factory participation rate fell  
slightly compared to our baseline. This reflects  
changes in the composition of our supply chain  
in 2018. Shifts in manufacturing led to a  
reduction in suppliers previously engaged in  
our program. We will continue to focus on  
increasing participation deepening  
engagement with suppliers who already have  
strong management systems and coaching  
smaller spend and sub-tier suppliers to  
improve the maturity of their sustainability  
management. Due to activities underway, we  
anticipate this percentage will increase in 2019. 
progress 12,000 
priority Put workers at the center of our  program by offering worker leadership  and empowerment programs, as well  as promoting effective grievance  mechanisms and strong two-way  communication channels 
goal Develop skills and improve wellbeing of  500,000 factory workers by 2025, since  the beginning of 2015 
supplier factory workers participated in  10 programs at 200 supplier sites in three  countries, bringing the total to 255,400  workers trained since the beginning of  2015, 51% of the way to our goal4 
We will continue to collaborate with local  
organizations to strengthen factory workers   
awareness and skills, through programs  
including women s leadership, peer advice,  
and personal protection. This focus has been  
integral to our supply chain responsibility  
program for over a decade.  
goal Double factory participation5 in our  supply chain sustainability programs by  2025, compared to 2015 
priority Enable suppliers to develop and  strengthen their policies, management  systems, and mechanisms to take  ownership for meeting social and  environmental compliance requirements  and elevate performance 
progress  3% 
reduction, compared to 2015 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
Chain disclosures. We also provide tailored  
supply chain information to our customers  
and channel partners to help them achieve  
their supply chain sustainability goals.  
95% of our manufacturing spend. Our  
products are manufactured in countries and  
territories worldwide, but over half of our  
manufacturing suppliers are based in the  
Asia Pacific region.  
In addition to this report, we disclose  
information about our supply chain  
responsibility and human rights performance  
through our annual SEC Conflict Minerals  
Report, Modern Slavery Act Transparency  
Statement, Report on Cobalt, and CDP Supply  
Transparency 
From PCs to printers, HP s unique products  
require a vast network of suppliers spanning  
six continents. Approximately 700 production  
suppliers make the products we sell and  
several thousand non-production suppliers  
support our operations. We disclose the  
names and locations of the production  
suppliers that represent approximately  
External  collaboration 
HP takes a leading role through collaborations  
focused on elevating supply chain best  
practices and tackling shared challenges. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  73 
Key relationships include:  
  CDP Supply Chain program 
  Green Freight Asia 
  Leadership Group for Responsible  
  Responsible Business Alliance 
  Responsible Labor Initiative 
  Responsible Minerals Initiative 
  Clean Electronics Production Network 
  National Minority Supplier Development  
  Social Accountability International 
  U.S. EPA SmartWay  
  WWF Climate Savers 
Recruitment 
Baseline conformance Programs and trainings intended to bring  suppliers up to baseline conformance with HP Supplier Code of Conduct and  related standards. 
Advanced Programs and trainings aimed at  strengthening supplier capabilities in repeat nonconformance areas, and  preparing suppliers for continuous  improvement and long-term success. 
Leader Programs o ered to suppliers that aim for leadership above and beyond HP s requirements, and focus on worker wellbeing. 
Examples of trainings and opportunities provided    Zero waste to landfill training    Women in Factories wellness and leadership      training 
Examples of trainings and opportunities provided    Science-based target trainings (in partnership      with CDP)    GHG and energy management training    Participation in HP EHS summit    HP-3M personal protective equipment training 
Examples of trainings and opportunities provided    EHS awareness training    Foreign migrant worker training    RBA Code of Conduct training 
Capability  building 
In collaboration with NGO partners and other  
external organizations (including some of  
those mentioned above), we provide the  
programs listed below at our supplier sites,  
depending on the maturity level of their  
policies and programs. Our objective is to  
help suppliers continually improve along  
their sustainability journey and advance from  
compliant, to advanced, to leadership levels. 
We continually deepen our understanding of  
the social and economic factors that lead to  
labor concerns, and then focus on areas of  
risk where we can have the most influence.  
We collaborate with organizations and  
government agencies with local expertise  
to promote long-term, scalable solutions.  
Our primary focus areas are combating  
forced labor, protecting workers  rights, and  
process chemicals. 
Combating forced  labor1 
As part of our commitment to addressing  
modern slavery, we start with our own  
operations and suppliers while striving to  
collaborate more broadly in ways that drive  
positive change. Modern slavery, as defined  
in guidance under the UK Modern Slavery  
Act, can manifest itself in different ways,  
including through debt bondage, forced  
labor, and human trafficking.2 
HP is uncompromising in our expectations of  
ethical behavior by our employees, partners,  
and suppliers. In our Modern Slavery Act  
Transparency Statement, we discuss our  
efforts to address modern slavery during the  
fiscal year ended October 31, 2018.  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
Protecting  workers  rights 
To fully address social and environmental  
issues in our supply chain, we aim to  
communicate with workers and management  
to understand their questions, concerns, and  
priorities. We train our procurement teams,  
supplier managers, and other employees to  
be vigilant and report instances of practices  
that violate our standards.  
In 2018, we collaborated to help ensure  
that workers understood and acted on their  
rights. For example:  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  74 
  Through a large-scale program of  
  Improved communication and longer  
coaching, training, and capability building,  
a small but critical sub-tier component  
supplier went from having concerning  
working conditions to reaching a preferred  
audit score in April 2018. 
lead times between HP and one of our  
final assembly suppliers have led to  
better scheduling and less volatility,  
with workers now assigned 8-hour  
instead of 12-hour shifts. Training has  
also been conducted to strengthen  
workers  awareness of the right to  
refuse overtime without repercussions.  
Training was held with 450 migrant  
workers about their rights. The supplier  
also transitioned temporary workers to  
direct hire, to improve visibility and avoid  
discrimination and unfair treatment. 
Working with U.S. truckers  to fight human trafficking 
Truckers Against Trafficking (TAT)  
sees individual truckers as vital  
eyes and ears in the fight against  
human trafficking. TAT helps to  
combat trafficking in the United  
States by educating and mobilizing  
members of the trucking and  
busing industries and coordinating  
with law enforcement agencies.  
We support innovative and  
effective initiatives such as TAT to  
combat forced labor wherever it  
exists. Most of HP s U.S. trucking  
vendors have signed up to the TAT  
initiative, and several are sponsors.  
We are one of the few shippers  
that participate directly and are  
committed to ensuring that all  
carriers moving HP products in the  
United States take the training.  
Additionally, our Supplier Code of Conduct  
requires suppliers to employ robust  
management systems to catalog and  
evaluate process chemicals, eliminate  
or manage hazardous substances,  
demonstrate that analyses of safer  
alternatives were conducted when a  
hazardous chemical is being used, and  
provide workers with essential personal  
protective equipment (PPE) and training.  
Where chemical substitutions are required,  
we help suppliers identify suitable  
alternatives through our alternative  
materials assessment program. See  
Materials innovation. 
Health and safety 
HP aspires to a world where our products  
and operations use materials and chemicals  
that cause no harm. We take a science- 
based approach to assessing the potential  
human health and environmental impacts of  
substances used in making HP products.  
Process chemicals 
Suppliers are required to follow the  
manufacturing process chemical use  
restrictions outlined in the HP General  
Specification for the Environment (GSE).  
We are a founding member of the Clean  
Electronics Production Network (CEPN)  
Green America program, which has a goal  
to move toward zero exposure of workers  
to toxic chemicals in the electronics  
manufacturing process. This collaborative  
effort is initially prioritizing challenges  
related to bonding and cleaning chemicals  
use in first- and second-tier suppliers in  
China and Mexico. 
In 2018, the safe management of chemicals  
was a key topic in an environmental, health  
and safety (EHS) summit hosted by HP in  
China. Representatives from 68 supplier sites  
attended. HP presented on EHS case studies,  
risk assessment, capability-building programs,  
and shared best practices. During the year, we  
also held nine events at supplier sites in China.  
These focused on observed and recurring risks  
including chemicals management, licenses and  
systems, fire safety, and PPE and occupational  
health standards.  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
Responsible minerals  sourcing 
Any connection between the materials used  
in HP products and armed violence or human  
rights abuses is unacceptable. To ensure  
our products are made responsibly, we  
have adopted industry-leading policies and  
monitoring practices and are broadening our  
vigilance beyond conflict minerals to a wider  
range of minerals and geographies. Through  
collaborative efforts, we aim to expand the  
market for responsibly sourced minerals,  
including those originating from conflict- 
affected and high-risk areas.  
Conflict minerals 
Across our complex, global, multi-actor  
supply chain, we have the most influence over  
our direct suppliers. However, in the case of  
trace and precious minerals, we recognize  
that we must work to influence the practices  
of those much deeper in the supply chain. 
While conflict minerals are rarely used in  
large volumes in any one IT product or by  
one company, the 3TG metals produced from  
them are found in relatively small amounts  
in virtually all electronic products. However,  
we are typically 4 10 supply chain stages  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  75 
removed from the smelters that purchase  
and process the ore into metals. For this  
reason, HP works with peers across the IT  
industry to collectively engage the entire  
supply chain in efforts to eradicate minerals  
that may have directly or indirectly supported  
armed groups and to promote responsible  
sourcing of minerals regardless of origin.  
Eliminating conflict-related risks  from our supply chain 
Promoting best practices by smelters is  
the most direct way to address the risk of  
conflict minerals entering our supply chain.  
We expect our suppliers to source 3TG for  
HP products only from smelters that comply  
with the Responsible Minerals Initiative s (RMI)  
Responsible Minerals Assurance Process  
(RMAP), which requires a third-party sourcing  
audit. Presence on the RMI conformant list  
demonstrates a smelter s conflict-free status. 
However, our relatively small use of these  
metals decreases our influence, so we need  
all of industry to demand conflict-free 3TG.  
We will continue to work with our suppliers  
and across the industry to drive demand for  
conflict-free sourcing, regardless of whether  
the minerals originate in the Democratic  
Republic of Congo (DRC) or elsewhere.  
We promote conflict-free minerals in our  
supply chain by:  
HP sets clear expectations of 3TG suppliers  
in our Supply Chain Social and Environmental  
Responsibility Policy (which includes  
our Conflict Minerals Policy), General  
Specification for the Environment, and  
Supplier Code of Conduct. We assess these  
suppliers  responses to the RMI Conflict  
Minerals Reporting Template, which gives  
companies a common format for sharing  
information about 3TG sources with business  
partners and suppliers across the supply  
chain. We request corrective action from  
suppliers where needed and provide them  
training upon request. If any 3TG supplier  
reports sourcing from a smelter that triggers  
one of our potential risk indicators, we  
work with the supplier to establish whether  
unverified material is potentially used in HP  
products. When we identify a risk of this  
occurring, we request the supplier to remove  
the smelter from our supply chain. 
  Requiring our production suppliers of  
  Supporting multi-stakeholder  
  Encouraging smelters that purchase and  
process mineral ores to undergo third- 
party sourcing audits. 
goods containing 3TG ( 3TG suppliers ) to  
require their smelters to undergo third- 
party sourcing audits. 
collaboration to establish secure, conflict- 
free sources of 3TG ores from the DRC. 
If a supplier is non-responsive, we use our  
procurement leverage to engage the supplier  
and improve performance. Should the issue  
persist, we use our sustainability incident  
management process to drive cooperation  
with the non-responsive supplier. 
To identify and disclose the smelters and  
refiners in our supply chain, between January  
and December 2018 HP surveyed suppliers  
which contributed material, components,  
or manufacturing for products containing  
3TG. Each smelter or refiner reported was  
identified in at least one of the RMI Conflict  
Minerals Reporting Templates we received. 
Performance 
In 2018, we received acceptable responses  
to RMI Conflict Minerals Reporting Templates  
from suppliers representing about 98%  
of our 3TG procurement spend, including  
both final assembly and commodity  
suppliers. These responses detailed 311  
3TG facilities, 89% of which were compliant  
or in process to become compliant with an  
independent assessment program, and  
or that we reasonably believe exclusively  
source conflict minerals from recycled or  
scrap sources or from outside of the Covered  
Countries (as of March 2019). 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
   As of March 2019. 
U.S. Securities and Exchange  Commission Conflict Minerals  Report  
In May 2019, we filed our Form SD and  
Conflict Minerals Report with the U.S. SEC  
disclosing our due diligence efforts and  
results. See our SEC Conflict Minerals Report.  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  76 
     Smelters or refiners listed by RMI as currently RMAP  compliant (including certification or accreditation by similar  independent assessment programs cross-recognized by  RMAP such as the Responsible Jewellery Council s (RJC)  Chain-of-Custody Certification Program, or the London  Bullion Market Association s (LBMA) Responsible Gold  Programme) or in the process of becoming RMAP compliant. 
 Unknown  31 28 35 
  Believed to source  recycled scrap or from  outside the Covered  Countries 
  Compliant or in process   260 260 257 
Status of all supplier-reported  3TG facilities  
2018 2016 2017 
Other regions  and minerals  
Learning from our experience combating  
conflict minerals in the DRC and surrounding  
countries, we are expanding our efforts.  
This aligns with growing awareness of  
minerals sourcing issues beyond the DRC  
and surrounding countries covered by  
the U.S. Dodd Frank Act. The EU Conflict  
Minerals Regulation, which covers EU  
imports of 3TG minerals from all regions  
of the world, requires all large EU 3TG  
metal importers and smelters to become  
 responsible importers  consistent with the  
  Number of total 3TG facilities in HP Conflict Minerals Report  3TG facility list that were either RMAP compliant or in  process to become compliant, and or that we reasonably  believe exclusively source conflict minerals from recycled or  scrap sources or from outside of the Covered Countries (as  of March 2019).  
Gold 149 123 83% 
Total 311 276 89% 
Tin 80 73 91% 
Tungsten 42 40 95% 
Type of  facility Total Progress  toward DRC  Conflict-Free  Percentage 
Tantalum 40 40 100% 
Progress toward DRC  Conflict-Free, 2018 
OECD Due Diligence Guidance. Although  
HP s operations are not within the scope of  
the EU regulation, we are aligning our policy  
and approach to the extent practicable  
and preparing to support our customers   
requirements consistent with the regulation.  
We support RMI s work to help refiners and  
smelters identify conflict-affected and high- 
risk areas (CAHRAs), including outside of DRC  
and Covered Countries. We also supported  
RMI s gap assessment work with the OECD,  
which led to revised protocols for smelters  
and refiners that responsibly source 3TG  
from CAHRAs worldwide. 
We have expanded minerals due diligence  
and reporting to also include cobalt, which  
has been linked to human rights risks.  
We ask battery suppliers to confirm they  
have policies addressing cobalt, to report  
to HP the cobalt refiners they use, and to  
encourage these refiners to complete an RMI  
audit. See our Report on Cobalt.  
Multi-stakeholder  initiatives  
Sourcing minerals responsibly requires  
global coordinated efforts across sectors  
and industries. We collaborate widely with  
businesses, NGOs, government agencies,  
and our production suppliers to advance the  
use of responsibly sourced minerals.  
Through RMI, we help develop and share  
trainings, templates, and white papers to  
build the capabilities of the IT industry and  
beyond. We also support broader policy  
efforts through participation in RMI and its  
Due Diligence Practices Team and Smelter  
Engagement Team. 
Additionally, we collaborate through external  
forums, including European Partnership for  
Responsible Minerals, Kemet Partnership  
for Social and Economic Sustainability, and  
Public-Private Alliance for Responsible  
Minerals Trade. 
Supplier  diversity 
Diversity and inclusion is part of everything  
we do, and our commitment extends beyond  
our own employees to our engagement with  
suppliers. Through purchasing decisions and  
business relationships, we foster greater  
opportunity, equality, and representation  
throughout our supply chain and in the  
communities where we live, work, and  
do business. Diverse perspectives and  
experiences drive innovation, fortify our  
business, and strengthen local economies. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
supplier diversity (continued) 
In 2018, we continued to develop our Global  
Supplier Diversity program in the United  
States and South Africa. We also work with  
the National Minority Supplier Development  
Council and Women s Business Enterprise  
National Council.  
We encourage small businesses and  
companies owned by women, minorities,  
veterans, service-disabled veterans, LGBTQ   
individuals and aboriginal or indigenous  
individuals to compete for our business. 
To improve the diversity of our suppliers   
workforces, we run initiatives such as those  
with our main advertising agencies and U.S.  
law firm partners. See Diversity and inclusion   
for details. 
In 2018, we spent  423 million with small  
companies in the United States and  219 million  
with minority- and women-owned businesses.  
See additional data. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  77 
Environmental impact 
Our production and nonproduction suppliers  
are essential partners as we work to  
drive low-carbon and resource-efficient  
transformation throughout the value chain. 
To understand and manage our impacts, we  
calculate supply chain GHG emissions and  
water consumption in two ways:  
  In this section of the report, we include  
  The data included in our carbon and  
data reported by our first-tier production  
suppliers, product transportation  
suppliers, and nonproduction suppliers.  
This data reflects the volume of HP s  
business with each organization. Through  
engagement with suppliers, we can better  
understand and influence improvements  
in performance year overyear.  
water footprints are based on product  
life cycle assessment-based estimates.  
This analysis is intended to provide as  
complete an understanding as possible of  
impacts across the multiple levels of our  
supply chain, from materials extraction  
through manufacturing and product  
use, as well as retail and storage. These  
calculations use a combination of HP- 
specific and industry methods and data. 
Greenhouse gas  emissions 
Although GHG emissions intensity rose  
between 2015 and 2017 when calculated  
as a three-year rolling average, yearly GHG  
emissions intensity values (not calculated  
as a rolling average) decreased by 7%  
during that timeframe. To help reach our  
goal, we encourage our first-tier production  
and product transportation suppliers to  
improve energy efficiency, use renewable  
energy, and set science-based targets. This  
goal is part of our suite of GHG emissions  
reduction goals that are components of our  
Science Based Targets initiative-validated  
science-based target. WWF has publicly  
supported this goal,3 confirming the rigor of  
our goals-setting process. Since 2010, HP  
has decreased first-tier production supplier  
and product transportation-related GHG  
emissions intensity by 15%. 
ghg emissions intensity  reduction goal Reduce first-tier production supplier  and product transportation-related  GHG emissions intensity by 10% by  2025, compared to 20151 
progress  6% 
increase in GHG emissions intensity2 
Progress on this goal is the result of new and  
ongoing energy efficiency projects, energy  
management programs, and renewable  
energy use motivated by engagement with  
HP. Combined, these efforts have saved our  
suppliers  98 million in electricity costs alone. 
Production suppliers 
Through our Sustainability Scorecard, we set  
requirements for our production suppliers.  
During the year, the Sustainability Scorecard  
applied to nearly 60% of our production  
suppliers, by spend. We periodically raise  
our expectations to motivate ongoing  
improvement. In 2018, we updated our  
supplier environmental management  
criteria to include science-based GHG  
emissions reduction targets and third-party  
verification of GHG emissions, as well as  
transparent reporting of key environmental  
information, including GHG emissions,  
energy consumption, and renewable energy  
use. In 2019, we are adding more suppliers  
progress   Suppliers avoided 1.16  million tonnes 
ghg emissions reduction goal Help suppliers cut 2 million tonnes  of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e)  emissions between 2010 and 20254 
of CO2e emissions 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
   2017 is the most recent year data is available.  
See additional data and HP s 2018 carbon footprint. 
to our scorecard process to extend our  
engagement further into our supply chain. 
During the year, with the help of CDP, we  
conducted a webinar to educate suppliers on  
climate science and science-based targets  
and our expectations in this area. With several  
other technology companies, we also held a  
day of training to help suppliers understand  
environmental changes to the Responsible  
Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct,  
including those related to GHG emissions. 
In 2018, we completed a three-year pilot of  
the Strategic Energy Management Program,  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  78 
 Production supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions    Product transportation   Nonproduction supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions  
2016 2017 2014 2018 2015 
Supplier GHG emissions performance 
tonnes CO2e 
water, and more than  1 million. 
in collaboration with Natural Resources  
Defense Council (NRDC), the China National  
Institute of Standardization, local agencies,  
and suppliers in Suzhou. Through this  
initiative, we collaborated with suppliers  
to enhance their operations, technology,  
continuous improvement processes,  
and overall energy management, and  
to establish best practices and national  
guidelines for facility energy management  
across China s broader IT sector. Two HP  
suppliers in the program reported combined  
annual savings of greater than 7,000 tonnes  
of CO2e emissions, 500,000 cubic meters of  
attributable to HP, 8% more than in 2016.  
This reflects business growth, and increased  
emissions from two of our most significant  
suppliers due to expanded boundaries of  
GHG emissions inventory and conservative  
accounting in the first year for high GHG  
emissions potential substances in newly  
installed equipment. Year-over-year data is  
also affected by generally improved supplier  
data management and reporting processes.  
We engaged 98% of our first-tier production  
suppliers, by spend, to help reduce their  
environmental impact. Overall, 94% reported  
having GHG emissions reduction related  
goals. We also encourage suppliers to use  
renewable energy. By spend, 77% reported  
doing so in 2017, up from 54% in 2016, with  
39% reporting renewable energy use goals.  
Our Energy Efficiency Program (EEP) in  
China and Southeast Asia, implemented in  
collaboration with NGOs such as BSR, the  
World Resources Institute, and WWF, helps  
suppliers to build capabilities, identify ways  
to improve energy efficiency, and explore  
the use of renewable energy. Since 2010,  
participants in these programs have saved  
a cumulative  98 million in electricity costs  
alone, including  7 million in 2018. 
Performance 
In 2017, the most recent year that data  
is available, the suppliers that make HP  
products generated 2.8 million tonnes  
of Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions  
from the prior year, although HP s revenue  
increased by about 12% during that period.  
This decrease in GHG emissions intensity  
Product transportation 
To improve efficiency, cut costs, and reduce  
negative environmental impacts, we  
work to optimize our logistics network by  
consolidating shipments, identifying new  
routes, and shipping directly to customers or  
local distribution centers.  
We require our product transportation  
suppliers to use the Global Logistics  
Emissions Framework, which we helped  
develop in 2016 with the Global Logistics  
Emissions Council, to standardize emission  
calculations. To drive progress across  
the industry and beyond, we are working  
with the Clean Cargo Working Group,  
Green Freight Asia, the International Air  
Transport Association, the United Nations  
Climate   Clean Air Coalition, and the U.S.  
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)  
SmartWay program.  
We continue to use SmartWay partners for  
100% of our products shipped by truck in  
the United States and Canada. The program  
improves road transportation efficiency and  
reduces GHG emissions.  
Performance 
Product transportation resulted in 1.3 million  
tonnes of CO2e emissions in 2018, up 4%  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
was partly due to an ongoing shift from  
air to ocean freight. In 2018, we avoided  
30,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions by moving  
Nonproduction  suppliers  
We source a wide range of goods and  
services not related directly to product  
manufacturing, such as staffing,  
telecommunications, and travel. We  
collaborate with nonproduction suppliers,  
based on size and sector, to provide  
training, improve reporting, and reduce GHG  
emissions.  
Performance 
In 2017, the most recent year data is  
available, our nonproduction suppliers  
reported 280,000 tonnes of Scope 1 and  
Scope 2 CO2e emissions attributable to  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  79 
shipments from air to ocean between  
Asia and the Americas, Europe, and other  
countries within Asia. Reducing packaging  
size and weight also decreases emissions.  
See Packaging.  
HP. During that year, the percentage of  
HP nonproduction strategic suppliers that  
produced environmental reports increased  
to 75% from 65% in 2016. We believe this  
improvement in disclosure is partly due to our  
engagement with nonproduction suppliers  
through the CDP Supply Chain program. 
Many of our suppliers operate in regions  
where water stress is a growing threat. We  
work with production suppliers to improve  
water management in their operations.  
To identify supplier sites in water-stressed  
areas, we use water risk assessment  
tools such as World Business Council  
for Sustainable Development s Global  
Water Tool and the World Resources  
Institute s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas tool.  
We also identify sites that manufacture  
water-intense product types and use  
this information to assess overall water  
stress risks and opportunities. We ask our  
suppliers to report water risk, use, and  
management information through our  
CDP Supply Chain membership. This drives  
suppliers  awareness of water security  
issues and allows us to assess suppliers   
current water management strategies  
in the context of local environments and  
communities. We work with suppliers  
to improve water reporting and, when  
appropriate, we also work with suppliers  
to enhance water management practices,  
through use of best practice frameworks.  
To further drive improvements, in 2018 we  
added water stewardship criteria to our  
supplier Sustainability Scorecard. Suppliers  
are scored for transparently reporting  
quantitative water use as well as for having  
Supply chain transparency 
In 2008, HP was the first major IT company to publish aggregated supply  
chain GHG emissions data. Through CDP Supply Chain, we engage with our  
suppliers and promote disclosure of climate and water risks, governance, and  
performance. Through our Sustainability Scorecard, we require suppliers to provide  
environmental data through CDP (including GHG emissions and goals, total and  
renewable energy use, and water withdrawal), to make CDP responses publicly  
available, and to publish Global Reporting Initiative-based sustainability reports. In  
these ways, we improve suppliers  awareness of environmental impacts and their  
ability to track and improve performance.  
The Corporate Information Transparency Index, developed by the Institute of Public  
and Environmental Affairs (IPE) and NRDC, evaluates the environmental practices  
of global brands  supply chains in China. In 2018, HP ranked  12 of 42 global IT  
companies and  48 overall, of 312 brands assessed. On the IPE Supply Chain  
Climate Action Index, HP ranked  8 of 113 brands. 
To determine whether our suppliers met local air, water pollution, and waste laws,  
in 2018 we cross-checked supplier sites representing 95% of our spend against  
IPE s public database of environmental violations and collaborated with first-tier  
manufacturing suppliers in China to determine whether sub-tier suppliers complied  
with local environmental laws. This review of over 500 sub-tier suppliers identified  
56 with reported violations. We continue working with the relevant first-tier  
suppliers and IPE to address and resolve these issues. 
Pollutant release and transfer registers (PRTR) involve companies submitting to  
a public database inventories of substances released. In 2018, HP collaborated  
with IPE to engage four final assembly sites in China, representing 69% of our final  
assembly supplier spend, to submit through IPE s PRTR system. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
a public company-wide water policy or  
governance structure for water at the board  
of directors or top executive level.  
Performance 
In 2017, the most recent year data is  
available, production suppliers withdrew  
29 million cubic meters of water associated  
with HP, 6% less than in 2016. This decrease  
reflects multiple suppliers with improved  
water efficiency. Stronger supplier water  
accounting practices also contributed to  
year-over-year variations in data. By the end  
of 2017, 92% of our suppliers, by spend, had  
set water management goals.  
See HP s 2018 water footprint. 
We work with production suppliers to improve  
waste measurement and reporting, reduce  
waste volumes, and drive progress toward a  
circular economy. During 2018, HP participated  
in the RBA environmental sustainability  
workgroup to revise the organization s supplier  
environmental survey. With this revision, HP  
will be able to engage suppliers on waste  
management and prevention in greater detail,  
including landfill diversion. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  80 
Performance 
During 2017, the most recent year data is  
available, our suppliers generated 111,000  
tonnes of nonhazardous waste associated  
with HP, an 8% decrease from 2016, and  
46,000 tonnes of hazardous waste, an 11%  
decrease compared to the prior year. These  
decreases are due to lower waste intensity  
among many suppliers. By the end of 2017,  
59% of our production suppliers, by spend,  
had set waste-related goals. 
Building on a successful zero waste to  
landfill project in Brazil, we launched a  
Audit   results 
Our supplier audit process is an essential  
component of our risk assessment  
framework and a key mechanism for  
identifying opportunities for sustained  
similar pilot project in 2017 at a site of a  
major supplier in China, with the objective  
of diverting more than 95% of waste from  
landfill through reduction, reuse, and  
recycling. This supplier is scheduled to  
receive third-party zero waste certification  
in 2019. We plan to expand this program to  
additional suppliers in China. 
Sustainability Scorecards are one of the key ways we incentivize suppliers and drive improved  
performance. This tool provides suppliers a score that encompasses audit performance (60%  
of total score), environmental reporting (13%), conflict minerals disclosure (6%), and other  
social and environmental topics (21%). Suppliers discuss their scorecard with HP as part of  
regular business performance evaluations that determine ongoing business. In 2018, the  
average score increased by more than 12 percentage points compared to 2016, despite the  
fact that we periodically expand scorecard criteria and increase rigor to motivate ongoing  
improvement. These improvements demonstrate the impact of embedding social and  
environmental metrics in the procurement process and engaging HP and supplier executives.  
improvement with our suppliers. Supplier  
audits measure conformance with all  
provisions of the HP Supplier Code of  
Conduct in the areas of labor, health  
and safety, environmental, ethics, and  
management systems.  
In 2019, we will work with our final assembly  
suppliers to confirm they are auditing  
companies in their own supply chains that  
represent approximately 80% of their  
spend, based on the RBA Code of Conduct.  
We will review summary findings of those  
audits, which will further strengthen our  
understanding of performance deeper in  
Average sustainability scorecard results 
2017 2016 2018 
Average Sustainability Scorecard results 
our supplier base. See Our approach to a  
sustainable supply chain for detail about the  
audit process.  
In addition to the audit process, we engage  
with suppliers through coaching, specialized  
training, and ongoing data collection and  
conversations that help suppliers develop  
robust management systems to address  
root causes. See capability building. We  
summarize supplier performance across  
multiple dimensions (including audits) using  
our Sustainability Scorecard (see below). 
Preferred   85%  Acceptable 65 85%  Concern   65%  
  Commodity  suppliers 
  Final assembly  suppliers 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
   Initial audits included 12 production supplier audits as  well as five nonproduction supplier audits. The latter  focused on the most significant risks in industries such as  labor agencies, facilities management, and promotional  products. Follow-up audits were all of production  suppliers. Full re-audits included 53 production supplier  audits as well as two nonproduction supplier audits.  Onboarding assessments included five production  suppliers as well as three nonproduction suppliers.  Nonproduction supplier assessments covered a broad  range of areas including management systems, ethics,  human rights, and environmental, health, and safety.  Trucking assessments addressed risks of forced labor  among workers transporting shipping containers between  the Port of Long Beach, California, United States, and  distribution centers in Long Beach and Los Angeles. This  table does not include audits of 41 reuse and recycling  vendor facilities in 20 countries conducted during 2018.  See Product repair, reuse, and recycling for detail. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  81 
Initial audits  (preliminary risk assessments) 17  
Follow-up audits  (addressing nonconformances identified  in any corrective action plans) 
Full re-audits  (comprehensive re-assessments) 55 
Other assessments  (focused on specific risks)  
Sustainability audits and other  assessments, 2018  
Health and safety assessments 3  
Onboarding assessments 8  
Vulnerable worker group (student and  foreign worker) assessments 12  
KPI validation assessments 9  
Nonproduction supplier assessments 7 
Trucking assessments 4 
% of full audits 
Performance  
In 2018, we completed 117 audits and  
43 other assessments of production,  
nonproduction, and product transportation  
suppliers. During the year, 86% of production  
supplier audits were third-party certified  
RBA VAP audits.  
We see a wide range of maturity levels in  
our audits, which are scored on a scale of  
0-200. In the RBA Factory LEAD Certification  
Program, suppliers with scores from 160 180  
are eligible for a Silver certification, and scores  
above 180 for a Gold certification.  
  160    100 160     100    Average score 
Distribution of scores of initial  audits and full re-audits 
2016 2017 2018 
Average score 
From 2016 to 2018, the percentage of  
production supplier initial audits and full re- 
audits that scored above 160 increased from  
43% to 48%. The average score during that  
period rose from 125 to 142. Twelve of those  
audits were of final assembly supplier sites.  
Of these, 42% scored over 160, 42% scored  
between 100 160, and 16% scored under  
100. The other 53 audits were of commodity  
supplier sites. In 2018, 49% of commodity  
suppliers scored over 160, 32% scored  
between 100 160, and 19% under 100.  
We periodically increase our expectations  
of suppliers, so suppliers must continually  
  Data is from initial audits and full re-audits of production  suppliers conducted in 2018. Due to our two-year audit  cycle and changes to HP s supplier base, data typically  does not represent the same supplier sites as the  previous year. 
15% Environmental 
38% Health and safety  
Distribution of major  nonconformances by  section of HP Supplier   Code of Conduct, 2018  
11% Management systems  
percentage of total  
issues related to charging of recruitment  
fees, two related to passport and personal  
document withholding, and two related  
to fire exits. We required the issues to be  
serious type of supplier nonconformance  
and require immediate action. In 2018, we  
identified eight immediate priority findings,  
equivalent to 0.12 findings on average  
for each initial audit and full re-audit of  
production suppliers conducted.2 Four  
improve to maintain a consistent audit score.  
For example, in 2018 we adopted version 6.0  
of the RBA Code of Conduct, which includes  
requirements related to worker voice and  
training, pregnant and nursing women,  
process chemicals, and water management.  
Detailed analysis  of audit results 
A major nonconformance is a significant  
failure in the management system that  
affects a company s ability to ensure that  
conditions conform to the HP Supplier Code  
of Conduct or General Specification for the  
Environment. A minor nonconformance is  
not a systemic problem, but typically an  
isolated finding. The data in this section  
focuses on major nonconformances.  
Immediate  priority findings 
Immediate priority findings1 are the most  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
immediately addressed and are working with  
the suppliers to complete remediation to the  
workers and implement corrective actions to  
adjust their management systems. 
For audits conducted in 2018, suppliers were  
in full conformance (no nonconformances  
identified) for the following provisions:  
protection of identity and nonretaliation,  
freedom of association, no improper  
advantage, and intellectual property.  
Sixty-five initial audits and full re-audits  
of production suppliers conducted in 2018  
identified 443 major nonconformances,  
equivalent to 6.8 per audit on average. 
Six provisions (see table on right) out  
of 45 total represented 60% of all  
nonconformances identified. We focus on  
these and other areas that have the greatest  
potential for improvement.  
HP requires suppliers to provide a detailed  
corrective action plan addressing all  
identified nonconformances within 30  
days of receipt of the site audit report  
(except immediate priority findings, which  
are addressed expeditiously), and have  
processes in place to monitor progress and  
subsequent closure of nonconformances.  
For details, see the RBA VAP Operations  
Manual and Our approach to a sustainable  
supply chain.  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  82 
   Data is from initial audits and full re-audits of production suppliers conducted in 2016 and 2018. Due to our two-year audit cycle and changes to HP s supplier base, data typically does not  represent the same supplier sites as the previous cycle. 
    Percentage of sites with no major nonconformances identified. 
Issue Rate of  conformance,  2016   
Working hours 37% 34% Excessive working hours remains the single largest labor challenge in our supply chain, especially around times of  peak production and labor shortages. Workers often voluntarily work long hours to earn more money and suppliers  may lack effective management systems in this area. Among suppliers in our KPI program (about 50 at the end of  2018 representing approximately 74,600 workers), 94% met our requirements related to working hours in 2018,  up from 92% in 2017. HP is supporting suppliers to improve their forecasting ability, track shifts and working hours  more accurately, and hire workers directly instead of by contract. Suppliers have also implemented IT systems to  better manage shifts, and some have dedicated lines for student and juvenile workers to facilitate conformance  with overtime or night shift requirements. We provide training to student workers and their managers about our  requirements and their rights. 
Occupational  injury and illness 62% 71% Most nonconfomances relate to lack of documentation (availability and access to medical records, injury logs,  doctor visits, etc.), and recent certifications required (valid certificates for occupational health must be made  available for review to fully correct nonconfomance). During 2018, we continued to work directly with suppliers  that had nonconformances in this area, to help them fully understand our requirements and resolve the issues. We  also collaborated with 3M to deliver personal protective equipment and training. Suppliers are required to train all  employees on a regular basis and report incidents to HP.  
Emergency  preparedness 42% 51% Nonconformances in this area involve items such as blocked exit doors, missing or poorly lit exit signs, lack of fire exit  instructions, and missing or defective emergency equipment. Most of these can be remedied with straightforward  corrective actions. However, sometimes a change takes more time  for instance, replacing all fire exit doors. We  supplement our audits with specific health and safety assessments that help us evaluate and improve understanding  of our policies and standards.  
Occupational  safety 55% 55% Major nonconformances related primarily to presence of current safety permits and first aid response reporting.  Suppliers are required to have a tracking mechanism and keep documentation of remediation and compensation  provided to workers involved in an incident. A supplier with a nonconformance must also prove that training has been  or will be conducted within 180 days.  
Wages and  benefits 69% 55% In countries without a set minimum wage, the industry prevailing wage applies. The most common issue in wages and  benefits is suppliers not paying appropriate social insurance. More broadly, corrective actions in nonconformances  related to wages and benefits include documentation of pay stubs, communication to workers, and records of  employer contributions to worker insurance schemes. In 2018, we continued to work directly with suppliers that had  nonconformances related to social insurance to help them fully understand our requirements and resolve the issues. 
Hazardous  substances 65% 71% Suppliers must properly label and store all hazardous substances in their facilities. Corrective actions may include  development of inventory management systems, a list of approved chemicals, use of auditor-verified vendors, and  education on legal restrictions related to material use. During 2018, we continued to work directly with suppliers that  had nonconformances in this area to help them fully understand our requirements and resolve the issues. We also  addressed issues such as process chemicals management through HP and industry capability-building programs,  including an environment, health, and safety summit we hosted in China, as well as our collaboration with the Clean  Electronics Production Network. See Process chemicals. 
Issues with lowest rates of conformance of sites audited, 2016 and 2018  
Rate of  conformance,  2018   HP s approach 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  83 
Rates of conformance of sites audited, 2016 and 2018   
HP Supplier Code of Conduct section provision Rate of conformance  of sites audited, 2016      Rate of conformance  of sites audited, 2018      
Labor 84% 83% 
Health and safety 72% 76% 
Environmental 85% 88% 
Freely chosen employment management systems 83% 80% 
Risk of forced labor 95% 82% 
Young worker protection management systems 97%   92% 
Risk of child labor 100% 98% 
Working hours 37% 34% 
Wages and benefits 69% 55% 
Humane treatment 98% 98% 
Nondiscrimination management systems 77% 97% 
Risk of discriminatory practices 94% 97% 
Freedom of association 87% 100% 
Occupational safety 55% 55% 
Emergency preparedness 42% 51% 
Occupational injury and illness 62% 71% 
Industrial hygiene 74% 80% 
Physically demanding work 88% 89% 
Machine safeguarding 99% 92% 
Dormitory and canteen 65% 82% 
Health and safety communication 94% 89% 
Environmental permits and reporting 86% 83% 
Pollution prevention and resource reduction 98% 89% 
Hazardous substances 65% 71% 
Wastewater and solid waste 92% 97% 
Air emissions 91% 89% 
Storm water management 69% 91% 
Energy consumption and GHG emissions 91% 97% 
   Data is from initial audits and full re-audits of production suppliers conducted in 2016 and 2018. Due to our two-year audit  cycle and changes to HP s supplier base, data typically does not represent the same supplier sites as the previous cycle. 
    Percentage of sites with no major nonconformances identified. 2016 data refers to the RBA Code of Conduct Audit Protocol 5.0.  2018 data refers to the RBA Code of Conduct Audit Protocol 6.0. In several provisions, such as Risk of forced labor, Health and safety  communication, Environmental permits and reporting, Pollution prevention and resource reduction, changes to the code contributed  to decreased levels of conformance. 
HP Supplier Code of Conduct section provision Rate of conformance  of sites audited, 2016      Rate of conformance  of sites audited, 2018      
Ethics 94% 99% 
Management systems 88% 94% 
Business integrity 92% 98% 
No improper advantage 97% 100% 
Disclosure of information 95% 95% 
Intellectual property 98% 100% 
Fair business, advertising, and competition 89% 98% 
Protection of identity and nonretaliation 94% 100% 
Responsible sourcing of minerals 88% 98% 
Privacy 94% 98% 
Company commitment 95% 98% 
Management accountability and responsibility 86% 95% 
Legal and customer requirements 89% 97% 
Risk assessment and risk management 77% 95% 
Performance objectives with implementation plan and measures                           83% 94% 
Training 94% 95% 
Communication 92% 97% 
Worker feedback and participation 94% 97% 
Audits and assessments 83% 94% 
Corrective action process 95% 95% 
Documentation and records 95% 98% 
Supplier responsibility 71% 72% 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
    With the exception of train-the-trainer programs, HP only accounts for workers directly reached by our capability-building programs. Number of workers  reached each year depends on the programs executed  some programs address issues broadly across suppliers and workers  other programs focus more  narrowly on individual supplier sites or specific vulnerable worker groups.  
     Based on production-line workers at final assembly and select commodity sites participating in the HP KPI program. We continue to expand the list of suppliers  in the KPI program based on business risk, country risk, and identified nonconformances. 
    See page 81 for detail.  
    These totals are the number of workers as of the date of the site visit according to production supplier initial audit and full re-audit reports. HP s UK Modern  Slavery Act (MSA) Transparency Statement for 2017 reported that we had identified 199,432 workers based on audits conducted at many of our suppliers  sites.  HP learned, after finalizing its UK MSA, that the reported data overstated the number of workers by inadvertently including audit reports from 2016 in addition  to 2017. In 2017, there were 162,300 workers at the sites for which we are reporting audit performance information in this report. 
Supply chain responsibility  
    Data in this table for 2018 is specific to production suppliers, except the following included in Sustainability audits and other assessments: five initial audits, two full  re-audits, three onboarding assessments, and seven supplier assessments of nonproduction suppliers  and four assessments of product transportation suppliers. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  84 
Workers at sites audited   [total] 96,400 162,300 244,700 
Rates of conformance of sites audited, 2016 and 2018 (see page 83) 
Sustainability audits and other assessments [total] 
Workers  rights 
Suppliers publishing sustainability reports using the GRI framework [% of production supplier spend] 86% 82% 88% 
Capability building 
Suppliers in China with student workers representing 20% or less of total employees    98% 100% 99% 
Immediate priority audit findings (immediate action required) related to occupational safety,  emergency preparedness, or industrial hygiene  2 0 2 
Initial audits 58 47 17 
Follow-up audits 67 39 45 
Full re-audits 30 30 55 
Assessments 29 34 43 
Suppliers  employees working fewer than 60 hours per week on average    89% 92% 94% 
Number of capability-building programs 14 15 10 
Immediate priority audit findings (immediate action required) related to the ILO Declaration on  Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work: freedom of association  forced, bonded, or indentured  labor  child labor  or discrimination  
Suppliers  employees receiving at least one day of rest each seven-day workweek    96% 98% 98% 
Sustainability Scorecard average score   Commodity suppliers 78% 85% 87% 
Sustainability Scorecard average score   Final assembly suppliers 72% 84% 88% 
Workers reached through capability-building programs    45,700 119,900 12,000 
2016 2017 2018 
    Suppliers are categorized as minority-owned or women-owned, not both. These categories  include all sizes of businesses. 
     These categories include all sizes of businesses. 
HP s spend with U.S. diverse suppliers  [  millions] 
    Data is for the 12 months ending September 30 of the year noted. Figures for 2016 are for  purchases in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Europe, and Asia, from U.S.-based  businesses, and include one month of spending from before the separation of Hewlett- Packard Company on November 1, 2015. Figures for 2017 and 2018 are for purchases in the  United States and Puerto Rico from U.S.-based businesses. 
HP s spend with U.S. diverse suppliers  [  million]  
Veteran-owned businesses, service disabled  veteran-owned businesses, HUBZone  businesses, and others    
Small businesses   1,065  647  423 
Women-owned businesses     159  98  79 
Minority-owned businesses     190  132  140 
2016 2017 2018 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
Environmental impact  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  85 
Production suppliers with water-related  goals [% of spend] 74% 80% 80% 92% 
First-tier production supplier and product  transportation-related GHG emissions  intensity ,    [tonnes CO2e   million of HP  net revenue] 
Production supplier renewable energy use  [% of total energy use] 15% 22% 
Production suppliers that reported using  renewable energy   [% of spend] 10% 47% 54% 77% 
Production supplier GHG emissions     [tonnes CO2e] 
Production suppliers with GHG emissions  reduction-related goals  [% of spend] 
Product transportation GHG emissions   
Production supplier hazardous waste  generation  ,   [tonnes] 45,000 48,000 51,000 46,000 
[tonnes CO2e]   1,260,000 1,280,000 1,200,000 1,250,000 1,300,000  
Production suppliers with waste-related  goals  [% of spend] 59% 57% 62% 59% 
Production supplier water withdrawal for  use  ,      [cubic meters] 40,000,000 44,000,000 31,000,000 29,000,000 
Production supplier nonhazardous waste  generation  ,   [tonnes] 123,000 121,000 121,000 111,000 
Nonproduction supplier Scope 1 and  Scope 2 emissions  ,    [tonnes CO2e] 240,000 270,000 280,000 
Production supplier energy use     [MWh] 6,400,000 5,500,000 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions    2,900,000 3,100,000 2,600,000 2,800,000 
Scope 3 emissions  ,      14,600,000 9,800,000 11,500,000 7,800,000 
Road (includes rail) 330,000 330,000 350,000 350,000 410,000 
Ocean 230,000 200,000 150,000 160,000 180,000 
Air 700,000 750,000 700,000 740,000 710,000 
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 
95% 93% 94% 94% 
71.9 75.9 78.8 80.4 
    We believe that variation in this data reflects both changes in actual performance and inconsistency in reporting practices. 
      Suppliers may not report all Scope 3 categories, although the number of categories reported by many suppliers has  increased over the last few years. 
    The figures for product transportation GHG emissions are based on data reported by product transportation suppliers  that HP contracted to deliver products (for years prior to 2016, before the split of Hewlett-Packard Company, calculations  are adjusted to reflect emissions attributable to HP s current business units). They may differ from the product life cycle  assessment-based estimates presented on page 61 which are based on a different calculation methodology, use a  combination of HP-specific and industry data, and include additional upstream and downstream transportation related to the  company s products, as well as retail and storage. 
     Total energy includes purchased energy (electricity, etc.) and generated energy (fuel use, etc.). Energy use data is calculated  based on suppliers  reported energy use and their dollar volume of HP s business compared to their total revenue. Data  reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected for 2017 represented 93% of HP  production spend. 
    In some cases, data from prior years are updated to reflect improved data, for example revised supplier information. 
     This metric reports the amount of water withdrawn by suppliers, not the amount consumed by our multi-tier supply chain  as reported in our water footprint on page 62. Because water withdrawn can also be returned, this footprint is inherently  larger. Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. Withdrawal is estimated based on  suppliers  reported water withdrawal and their dollar volume of HP business compared to their total revenue. The majority  of these companies report on a calendar-year basis. The year 2017 is the most recent for which data is available. Data  reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected for 2017 represented 91% of  HP production spend, compared to 94% the prior year. Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on  November 1, 2015, calculation for all years uses production spend associated with the business units that are now a part of  HP Inc. 
    Emissions are estimated based on suppliers  emissions and their dollar volume of HP business compared to their total  revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar-year basis. The year 2017 is the most recent for which data  is available. Data reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of strategic nonproduction suppliers. Data collected for 2017  represented 48% of HP nonproduction spend. Accounting for the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1,  2015, the calculation uses nonproduction spend associated with the business units that are now part of HP Inc. In cases  where spend for 2015 cannot be disaggregated, 2016 spend is used as an estimate. 
    Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier production and product transportation suppliers  reported GHG emissions  attributable to HP divided by HP s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity.  Intensity is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease the impact of variance year over year and highlight  longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. Taking into account the separation of  Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years uses HP revenue and spend associated with the  business units that are now a part of HP Inc. The year 2017 is the most recent for which data is available. 
     Emissions are calculated based on suppliers  reported emissions and their dollar volume of HP s business compared to  their total revenue. Data reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected for  2017 represented 95% of HP production spend. The World Resources Institute defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions  in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol. This data differs from the product life cycle assessment-based estimates for materials  extraction through manufacturing presented on page 61, which are based on a different calculation methodology and  use a combination of HP-specific and industry data. Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on  November 1, 2015, calculation for all years uses production spend associated with the business units that are now a part of  HP Inc. The majority of these companies report on a calendar-year basis. The year 2017 is the most recent for which data is  available. 
   Waste data is estimated based on suppliers  waste data and their dollar volume of HP business compared to their total  revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar-year basis. The year 2017 is the most recent for which data  is available. Data reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected for 2017  represented 66% of HP production spend for nonhazardous waste and 66% for hazardous waste, compared to 65% and  55% the prior year. Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all  years uses production spend associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. 
Executive summary Appendix Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Footprint Sustainable Impact 
Operations 
87 Our employees 
92 Our facilities 
97 Community giving and volunteerism 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  86 
Operations Products and solutions 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
Our employees 
Every day, HP s approximately 55,0001  
Diversity   and inclusion 
Innovation at HP springs from people  
bringing their whole selves to work,  
collaborating and contributing their varied  
perspectives, knowledge, and experiences.  
Diverse teams create transformative  
solutions that better serve our customers  
and advance how the world works and lives.  
To find and keep the very best people, we  
embrace and celebrate difference, and take a  
stand for equity and belonging.  
Diversity is a fundamental part of who we  
are and everything we do. Our commitment  
extends beyond our own employees to our  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  87 
employees succeed so they can do their best  
work, every single day. 
employees  shape our future and bring our  
vision to life. They power our innovation,  
contributing unique perspectives and a  
growth mindset to create breakthrough  
technologies and transformative solutions.  
We are committed to fostering a diverse and  
inclusive workplace that attracts and retains  
exceptional talent. Through ongoing talent  
development, comprehensive compensation  
and benefits, and a focus on health and  
safety and employee wellbeing, we help our  
Policy. We also support the Human Rights  
Environment Policy, and Open Door  
relationships with suppliers, partners, and  
A strong policy framework supports our efforts  
and includes our Global Nondiscrimination  
Policy, Global Harassment-Free Work  
   Board of Directors data is as of January 31, 2019. Other data is as of October 31, 2018. 
   Full-time employees only, director level and above. 
communities worldwide. We aim to remove  
bias and barriers, and connect people to  
the power of technology by addressing  
accessibility and aging challenges in our  
products and services. Respecting human  
rights is a core value at HP, and we are  
uncompromising about the rights, freedom,  
and equity to which everyone is entitled.  
We are proud of our progress and the  
recognition we have received.  
27 under represented minorities  
55 minorities  
27 under represented minorities  
Board of Directors 
55 minorities  
minorities 
27 under represented minorities  
underrepresented  minorities 
55 minorities  
compared to 22.7% in 2015.3,4  
Our commitment  starts at the top 
Campaign s Business Coalition for the  
Equality Act related to LGBTQ  workplace  
rights, and the United Nations Human Rights  
Office Standards of Conduct for Business. 
HP s Board of Directors is the most diverse  
of any U.S. technology company. We are  
also among the top technology companies  
for women in executive positions. Women  
represent 31.3% of the company s full-time  
vice president positions, up from 18.3%  
in 2015,2 and 30.3% of full-time directors,  
See employee demographics data.  
Our Global Diversity Advisory Board (GDAB) is  
composed of leaders from across our regions,  
HP demographics  
to 30.7% in 2018,   from 21.7% in 2015 
Women in  leadership     9.0% 
TECH ROLES 
22 women in engineering and IT  
women in Legal, Finance, HR, and Marketing  
GLOBAL FUNCTIONS 
Technical roles 
women in IT and  engineering 
functions, and businesses. It helps influence  
and drive our strategy and hold our leaders  
accountable to action. In 2017, the GDAB  
engaged with stakeholders across business  
groups and regions to establish strategic  
priorities and build teams at the business and  
local levels to accelerate progress.  
Diversity and inclusion is a key part of  
leadership discussions, and is a standard  
item on leadership quarterly business  
reviews. We are committed to increasing  
representation of women overall, as  
well as in leadership and technical roles  
globally, and of minorities in the United  
States. We are also expanding our efforts  
related to representation of employees with  
disabilities, and in 2016 HP committed to  
hiring 150 veterans or military spouses over  
the course of five years. Through 2018, we  
achieved 77% of that amount. 
women in legal, finance,  HR, marketing, and  communications (on average) 
TECH ROLES 
Global functions 
22 women in engineering and IT  
women in Legal, Finance, HR, and Marketing  
GLOBAL FUNCTIONS 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
In 2017, our CEO took a pledge as part of  
the CEO Action for Diversity   Inclusion (the  
largest CEO-driven business commitment  
to advance diversity and inclusion in the  
workplace) on behalf of HP. 
Embedding  diversity and  inclusion across HP  
Our Belong, Innovate, and Grow (BIG)  
strategy embeds diversity and inclusion  
across all parts of our businesses and  
functions, and into talent acquisition and  
development, culture, mentoring, training,  
and events. This year, about 350 employees  
attended events run by the Belong at HP  
development and sponsorship program. In  
2017, we launched business-level diversity  
oversight across the company.  
As of April 2019, we have more than 100  
Business Impact Networks (BINs) in 26  
countries, open to all employees and  
representing the following constituencies:  
Black African American, Disabilities,  
Hispanic Latino, LGBTQ , Multicultural, Pan  
Asian, Veterans, Women, and Early Career.  
About 13,000 BIN members participated in  
events in 2018. 
In addition to leading many community  
outreach programs, BINs promote diversity  
in pipeline development, local hiring, talent  
programs, and mentoring. They leverage  
our global diversity strategy to execute  
campaigns such as International Women s  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  88 
I feel HP values diversity 
I can be myself at work 
I feel a sense of belonging at work 
  Data refers to the percentage of HP 2017 and 2018 Voice  Insight Action (VIA) employee survey respondents who  strongly agreed or agreed with each statement. 
Week and ALLIES HP, a workshop for  
LGBTQ  allies that launched as part of our  
HP Pride Month initiatives. 
Overcoming unconscious bias  
We want HP to be the employer of choice  
among talented women and underrepresented  
groups. We continued expanding the  
 2017    2018  
Employee survey results   Diversity and inclusion 
Reinvent Mindsets video series, which shines  
a light on unconscious bias through the lens  
of women and underrepresented groups.  
In November 2018, we broadened the  
campaign to include veterans. 
About 740 employees completed our  
unconscious bias training program in 2018,  
including 38 VPs across six countries. This  
year, we advanced our unconscious bias  
training materials to move from awareness  
to action, focusing on disrupting bias  
across all levels of the organization, and we  
continued our efforts to reach all recruiters  
and leaders within HP. For example, before  
opening a job requisition, all hiring managers  
were required to watch a short video on  
diversity and inclusion. To complement our  
classroom session, we plan to launch a web  
version of the video to provide employees  
worldwide easy access.  
Raising standards and practices  across the marketing industry  
We encourage our suppliers and partners  
to prioritize diversity and inclusion within  
their own operations. In 2016, we challenged  
our top five U.S.-based marketing agencies  
to significantly increase the number of  
women and U.S. minorities in top creative  
and strategic planning roles on HP account  
teams. During the year, all five agencies  
reported progress. 
Moving forward, we will continue to challenge  
our marketing agency partners to identify  
underrepresented groups in order to set  
specific goals, plans, and measurement that  
help increase diverse creative talent across  
HP account and senior leadership roles.  
See the HP Agency Diversity Scorecard,  
Business Powered by Diversity. 
Promoting diversity with our  legal partners 
Our legal team is also focused on improving  
diversity among our U.S. law firm partners  
and withholds up to 10% of all invoicing of  
those partners who fail to meet or exceed  
diverse minimal staffing on work for us.  
   Senior roles are defined as: creative directors and above  (creative department)  chief strategy officer, heads of  account planning, group planning directors (planning  department)  senior account directors and above (account  management)  group executive producers and above  (production department)  department heads and above (all  other departments). 
Marketing agencies: HP account  teams diversity progress 
Overall HP account senior roles  
Non account resources 
Overall HP account team 
Underrepresented minorities 24% 36% 
Women 45% 58% 
Underrepresented minorities 33% 36% 
Women 51% 55% 
Women 61% 62% 
Underrepresented minorities 19% 28% 
percentage of total 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
Law firms were asked to staff at least one  
underrepresented minority or one woman  
partner and one racially ethnically diverse  
attorney, each performing at least 10% of  
the billable hours on HP business. Firms are  
required to track and share data quarterly.  
Eighty-eight percent of participating firms  
met the diversity requirements in 2018, and  
women represented 44% of team members  
up from 23% at the beginning of 2017.  
The number of underrepresented minority  
partners increased to 25% in 2018, up  
from 21% at the beginning of 2017, and the  
number of hours billed by diverse attorneys  
increased each quarter. 
In our communities 
We continue to engage with several leading  
industry organizations and conferences  
that promote women, minority, veteran  
and LGBTQ  representation and causes  
in technology, including Professional  
Business Women of California, Grace  
Hopper Celebration (United States and  
India), the European Women in Technology  
Conference, Out   Equal, and others. Our  
people often provide thought leadership  
by delivering keynotes, leading workshops,  
and participating on panels. 
Our Women in Technology website features  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  89 
employee stories that illustrate how our  
culture supports and inspires women in  
technical roles throughout their careers  
and lives. To inspire more girls and minority  
students to consider science, technology,  
engineering, and mathematics (STEM)  
careers, we also grew our participation in the  
Hour of Code initiative, and we maintained  
our partnerships with organizations such as  
the AnitaB.org, Black Women in Computing,  
Breakline, and the YWCA.  
In 2017, we launched the HBCU (Historically  
Black Colleges and Universities) Business  
Challenge, a business school competition,  
with the National HBCU Business Deans  
Roundtable. Eighty-five schools were  
invited to participate, providing students the  
opportunity to develop solutions to real HP  
business problems while gaining hands-on  
industry experience, and a chance to win  
prizes including premium technology. In its  
inaugural year, we congratulated winning  
teams from Delaware State University and  
Xavier University of Louisiana, and in 2018,  
from the University of the Virgin Islands. This  
program also served as a means to help build  
our pipeline. Since 2017, we ve brought on six  
summer interns from the HBCU challenge,  
two of whom were offered and accepted full- 
time positions at HP. 
Employee  engagement 
HP s culture is fueled by our people.  
We support our employees to develop  
lasting and fulfilling careers and to make  
meaningful contributions to their teams, the  
company, and their communities.  
During the year, we continued to drive  
engagement in three focus areas: 
We regularly collect feedback to better  
understand and improve the employee  
experience and identify opportunities to  
continually strengthen our culture. In 2018,  
94% of employees participated in our annual  
Voice Insight Action (VIA) survey. Overall,  
employee engagement was at 73%, up from  
67% in 2017 and 60% in 2016, reflecting  
improvements in all regions. 
   Data refers to the percentage of HP 2016, 2017, and 2018 VIA employee survey respondents who strongly agreed or agreed with  each statement. 
  Developing our people: Bolstering  
  Building our future: Driving innovation,  
  Improving the way we work: Enhancing  
We are quick to invest in new ideas that will drive  future success 
I receive appropriate recognition (beyond my pay and  benefits) for my contributions and accomplishments 
My performance has a significant impact on my total  compensation 
My immediate manager encourages me to  develop innovative solutions that will improve the  organization s performance 
tools and processes to increase employee  
productivity and effectiveness. 
learning and development programs that  
maximize career growth opportunities. 
agility, and employee alignment with HP s  
strategy and direction. 
Greatest improvements in 2018 Voice Insight Action survey  
   Data refers to the percentage of HP 2017 and 2018 VIA  employee survey respondents who strongly agreed or  agreed with each statement. 
HP is socially and environmentally responsible 
I see HP values being demonstrated throughout my business unit global function every day 
Percent favorable Improvement in  percentage points  vs. 2017 2016 2017 2018 
69% 73% 81%  8 
53% 54% 61%  7 
53% 51% 62%  11 
37% 44% 56%  12 
Employee survey results   Sustainable Impact 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
Talent  development  
At HP, our ongoing success depends on  
enabling our diverse workforce of skilled  
employees and maintaining a strong  
leadership pipeline. We encourage a mindset  
of continuous learning and help employees  
to develop their careers. Employees have  
access to a wide range of development  
opportunities, including face-to-face and  
virtual, social, and collaborative learning,  
self-directed content, mentoring, coaching,  
and support for external academic programs.  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  90 
Growth mindset organization 
HP is a company of high-performing people, who are well prepared, constantly  
learning, and want the business to excel. Through a growth mindset, employees  
work on continuous improvement, innovation, and maintaining a workplace that  
drives progress and growth. We make significant investments in the development of  
employees, leaders, and top talent, with a specific focus on: 
  Delivering programs that support career advancement for employees across all regions 
  Building a high-performance culture through leadership development at all levels 
  Providing employees with cutting-edge and highly collaborative learning environments  
  Developing a strong pipeline of innovative and inclusive leaders 
  Developing an organization that delivers on strategic priorities, inspires team  
performance, and enables employees to innovate  
Our corporate culture fosters innovation by  
creating conditions that support risk-taking  
and failure. We learn from mistakes to drive  
breakthroughs and we focus as much on  
how employees work together as what they  
accomplish. In our 2018 VIA survey, 78% of  
employees stated that their team shares  
ideas and learns from failure.  
We advance employees  skills through  
frequent, consistent, and engaging  
conversations between employees and  
managers: 79% of employees stated that  
their manager is focused on developing  
employees  capabilities and supporting  
ongoing performance improvement. These  
interactions are reflected in employees   
annual development plans, and result in  
ongoing development experiences, stretch  
projects, and advancement to new roles.  
With support from human resources,  
leaders provide comprehensive  
performance summaries annually and  
allocate differentiated rewards based on  
performance and available funds. 
In 2018, 97.5% of employees took part  
in learning and development activities.  
Employees achieved 1.91 million recorded  
learning sessions, which totaled 1.66 million  
hours (up 20% compared to 2017), equivalent  
to an average of 30 hours per employee.  
During the year, managers provided  
performance input to 99% of eligible  
employees. Seventy-eight percent of  
employees stated that they received valuable  
feedback throughout the year that enabled  
them to improve their performance. In  
addition, 81% of employees felt encouraged  
by their manager to develop innovative  
solutions that will improve HP s performance. 
Compensation   and benefits 
HP offers a comprehensive Total Rewards  
package that is both performance based and  
market competitive. Total Rewards include  
salaries, bonuses, incentive programs, and  
a range of benefits. These are designed  
to meet our employees  diverse needs  
while enhancing their wellbeing and that  
of their families. Valuing and rewarding  
employees drives higher engagement and  
better performance and helps us attract  
and retain top talent. Compensation and  
benefits are reviewed annually for market  
competitiveness. 
HP sponsors a global wellness program  
designed to enhance physical, financial, and  
emotional wellbeing for all of our employees  
around the world. Other benefit programs  
vary by country to reflect local market  
practice and employee needs. Depending on  
location, these may include: 
  Insurance protections (e.g., life and  
  Other benefits 
  Retirement and savings plans 
  Healthcare benefits  
  Time-off programs (vacation, holidays,  
  Discount programs  
  Flexible work arrangements  
  Stock purchase plan  
disability)  
parental leaves, etc.)  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
Executive compensation 
The HR and Compensation Committee  
discharges the HP Board of Directors  
responsibilities related to the compensation  
of our executives and directors and provides  
general oversight of our compensation  
structure, including our equity compensation  
plans and benefits programs. See page 31 of  
the HP 2019 Proxy Statement for detail.  
In accordance with U.S. Securities and  
Exchange Commission rules, we recently  
reported our CEO pay ratio for the first time.  
Our CEO s annual total compensation for  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  91 
HP is committed  to pay equity 
Treating HP employees fairly and  
equitably is core to who we are.  
It also benefits our business, by  
helping HP attract and retain  
brilliant people in a fiercely  
competitive market for talent. We  
believe people should be paid for  
what they do and how they do it,  
regardless of their gender, race,  
or other personal characteristics.  
Learn more about our approach  
and performance in 2018. 
fiscal 2018 was  19,215,534. Our median  
employee s annual total compensation was  
 79,719, resulting in a CEO pay ratio of 241:1.  
For more detail, see page 62 of the HP 2019  
Proxy Statement. 
Health and  safety 
We strive to keep our employees safe and  
healthy so they can do their best work.  
We monitor injury trends regionally and  
worldwide, and regularly highlight national  
and international health advisories to the  
relevant teams. Our environmental, health,  
and safety (EHS) leadership team uses our  
global injury and illness reporting system  
to assess trends as a part of quarterly  
reviews. Supervisors of affected employees  
are required to complete injury and illness  
investigations for all reportable incidents  
and work with EHS points of contact to  
assess serious or complex cases.  
Worldwide, we maintained below-average  
accident and injury rates in 2018, with  
a lost workday case rate of 0.09 and a  
recordable incidence rate of 0.23.5 These  
compared to 2017 average rates of 0.2  
and 0.6, respectively, in the U.S. Computer  
and Peripheral Equipment Manufacturing  
industry (NAICS Code 33411).  
Our manufacturing facilities continue  
to represent our most significant health  
and safety risks, due to higher potential  
exposure to chemicals and machinery- 
related hazards. Managing and reducing  
risks at these plants remains a focus, and  
injury rates continue to be low.  
See more information about our  
environmental, health, and safety  
management system. 
The physical health, financial wellbeing,  
and life balance of our people is vital to  
HP s success. Our Well Beyond employee  
wellbeing program is designed to serve the  
needs of our evolving workforce and culture.  
Year-round employee engagement  
emphasizes ongoing actions that can  
help individuals build healthy behaviors  
into day-to-day life. Employees can track  
progress, challenge peers and spouses  
domestic partners, and personalize the  
program by setting their own goals.  
Depending on location, U.S. employees and  
spouses domestic partners can each receive  
incentives of up to  550 a year for activities  
such as completing a wellness assessment  
or making a tobacco-free pledge.  
As of October 2018, 72% of eligible employees  
in the United States, and 50% worldwide, had  
joined the Well Beyond program.  
Highlights from 2018 included: 
  Financial wellness: More than 2,000  
  Life balance: We offered meQuilibrium, a  
  Physical health: We recorded 25 billion  
employee steps through our Well Beyond  
platform worldwide, equivalent to more  
than 12 million miles. 
employees took part in Financial Wellness  
Month at our U.S. sites. Local seminars  
delivered information on topics such as  
401(k) savings, emergency funds, debt  
reduction, investments, and budgeting. 
U.S. program that helps employees build  
general resiliency skills, including our  
monthly  Calm-Cast.  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
Our facilities 
At our 177 sites in 59 countries around the  
world, we are reducing greenhouse gas (GHG)  
emissions, energy and water consumption,  
and waste generation. While GHG emissions  
associated with HP s operations represent  
just 1% of our carbon footprint, it is the  
area where we have the greatest control.  
Modeling sustainable operations also helps  
us to illustrate the change we wish to see in  
our industry and beyond. 
Environmental,  health, and safety  management 
HP owns and leases facilities around the  
world. Our Environmental, Health, and Safety  
(EHS) Policy and EHS management system  
help limit our environmental impact, improve  
worker safety, meet internal standards,  
and comply with all applicable laws and  
regulations. We investigate all allegations that  
our facilities failed to comply with applicable  
laws and take corrective action when needed. 
Every year, we perform environmental risk  
assessment on all operational sites. We  
conduct internal audits annually at complex  
locations, and the global EHS team audits  
high-risk sites at least once every three  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  92 
years. During 2018, we audited all 16 HP  
manufacturing sites. We conduct audits  
using our internal EHS management system  
standards. Management reviews the findings  
and we resolve any deficiencies identified.  
We pursue environmental management  
certifications at HP owned and leased facilities  
worldwide when feasible. As of the end of 2018,  
18 facilities (including all HP manufacturing  
sites) were certified to ISO 14001, with 15 as  
part of our global ISO 14001 certificate. During  
the year, we transitioned completely to the  
latest version of the ISO 14001 standard.  
As appropriate, we also achieve green  
building certifications at HP owned and  
leased facilities. Thirteen sites have  
achieved LEED certification (one more is in  
process), two locations have achieved SITES  
certification, one site has achieved TRUE  
certification, and one has achieved Green  
Mark certification.1 All new build-outs target  
the LEED v4 Gold Standard. In support of  
these objectives, we have developed the HP  
Green and Smart Construction Playbook for  
project managers. This provides guidance on  
an integrated design process that covers key  
principles ranging from energy use, indoor  
air quality, water consumption, and waste  
recycling, to smart building technology and  
the user experience. 
  As of May 2019, the Houston, Texas, LEED certification  is in process. 
To drive improvement in health and safety,  
our EHS management system aligns with the  
American National Standards Institute ANSI  
Z10 standard and the International Labour  
Organization ILO-OSH 2001 guidelines. 
 Green Mark for building    LEED for building  
 SITES for landscaping      TRUE for zero waste 
About our operational data  
All environmental data reported in this section refers to HP operations through  
October 31, 2018. At that time, we owned or leased 177 sites in 59 countries.  
Following the acquisition of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. s printer business on  
November 1, 2017, we recalculated energy use, water consumption, and Scope 1  
and Scope 2 GHG emissions data from operations back to the baseline of 2015, per  
guidance in the GHG Protocol. This process also included an update of the intensity  
factors used to extrapolate energy use and water consumption data for sites where  
direct tracked data was not available. The new intensity factors, along with recently  
confirmed square footage data, will more accurately reflect HP s footprint (see  
HP Carbon Accounting Manual and HP Water Accounting Manual for details). HP  
directly tracked data from invoices and other documents representing 91% of total  
electricity use, 81% of total natural gas use, 90% of total water consumption, 68%  
of total nonhazardous waste, and 100% of total hazardous waste. 
HP locations with green  building certifications  
All HP facilities have assigned technical EHS  
personnel, and our global EHS team provides  
guidance and oversight. We regularly talk  
to our employees about relevant policies,  
processes, and regulatory compliance. In  
2018, more than 2,600 employees took  
part in 38 instructor-led courses and nearly  
13,000 enrolled in web-based EHS training. 
Promoting a culture  of environmental  responsibility  
Recognizing the vital contribution employees  
make to improving our environmental  
performance, in 2018 we again conducted  
the following activities: 
  On Earth Day and World Environment  
Day, HP employees held events at 50  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  93 
  More than 2,000 HP employees from  
  Our team in Guadalajara, Mexico, developed  
  More than 600 HP volunteers worldwide at  
sites worldwide, focused on decreasing  
single-use plastics. This included a  
 plastic scavenger hunt  on our internal  
Yammer social site, during which  
employees proposed ways to reduce  
single-use plastics in their own facilities.  
We are implementing many of the  
suggestions at HP sites. 
30 sites took part in the Northwest  
Earth Institute (NWEI) EcoChallenge a  
competition that invites people to take  
up a three-week personal sustainability  
challenge. HP sites in India and Puerto Rico  
earned the top two spots for their efforts,  
out of nearly 850 teams worldwide from  
HP and other organizations. 
a model to quantify the environmental  
benefits of employee actions taken at the  
site. Efforts during the year reduced GHG  
emissions by more than 700 tonnes of  
CO2e, decreased water consumption by  
12 sites participated in shoreline cleanup  
events to support World Environment Day  
and the HP Foundation s 40 Days of Doing  
Good campaign. They collected nearly  
2 tonnes of trash, including discarded  
plastic, hazardous waste, cigarette ends,  
tin cans, and even bikes. We plan to  
continue this initiative annually. 
more than 1,100 cubic meters, and saved  
nearly  4,000. We are considering using  
this model at other HP sites. 
Greenhouse gas  emissions 
Most of our GHG emissions from operations  
are related to the energy used to power our  
facilities. To save money, drive progress toward  
our goals, and reduce our climate impacts, we: 
Following the acquisition of Samsung  
Electronics Co., Ltd. s printer business on  
November 1, 2017, we recalculated our  
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions data  
from operations back to the baseline of  
2015, per guidance in the GHG Protocol (see  
About our operational data). Our global  
  Aggressively reduce energy consumption  
  Increase on-site generation of renewable  
  Procure off-site renewable power,  
through optimization and efficiency projects 
including renewable energy credits (RECs)  
and power purchase agreements (PPAs) 
greenhouse gas emissions  reduction goal Reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG  emissions from global operations by  60% by 2025, compared to 2015 
progress in 2018  HP s global operations produced  229,600 tonnes of Scope 1 and  Scope 2 CO2e emissions, 
less than our 2015 baseline 
2018, a 41% decrease compared to 2015,  
making progress toward our science- 
based goal of a 60% reduction by 2025.  
We updated this goal after achieving our  
25% Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions  
reduction goal in 2017, also compared to  
2015. GHG emissions intensity equalled 3.9  
tonnes of CO2e per   million of net revenue in  
2018, a 19% reduction from 2017. The main  
drivers for GHG emissions reduction included  
the implementation of energy conservation  
projects, real estate consolidation, and the  
  Historical emissions-intensity values were calculated using  HP s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting  and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. 
operations produced 229,600 tonnes of  
Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions during  
Scope 1 and Scope 2  GHG emissions from operations 
 Americas    Europe, Middle East, and Africa    Asia Pacific and Japan    GHG emissions intensity (tonnes CO2e   million  of net revenue)  
2015 2016 2017 2018 
tonnes CO2e 
tonnes CO2e   million of net revenue  
purchase of renewable energy and energy  
attribute certificates (RECs IRECs). 
Learn more about how we reduce GHG  
emissions across our value chain in Supply  
chain responsibility: Environmental impact  
and Products and solutions.  
See our full carbon footprint for 2015-2018,  
HP carbon accounting manual, and CDP  
climate submissions. 
Energy efficiency 
Energy use is a significant operating expense  
for HP and the main driver of our climate  
impact from operations. Our operations  
consumed 758,898 MWh of energy in 2018,  
6% less than in 2017. Global electricity use  
decreased by 8% compared to 2017, due to  
the implementation of energy conservation  
projects and real estate consolidation. Energy  
intensity equalled 13.0 MWh per   million of  
net revenue in 2018, 16% less than in 2017. 
During 2018, our main tactics to reduce  
energy use included a multi-site boiler  
optimization project, chiller optimization,  
retro-commissioning, conversion to LED  
lighting, and lighting control upgrades.  
Our energy team is collaborating with site  
operation teams that are replacing end-of- 
life equipment, to confirm that new high- 
efficiency equipment is being installed. All  
new construction will comply with the HP  
Green and Smart Construction Playbook and  
the LEED v4 Gold Standard. 
In 2018, we implemented 29 projects at  
   Includes purchased electricity and electricity generated  on-site. 
    Historical energy-intensity values were calculated using  HP s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting  and direct and indirect energy use. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
12 locations, projected to save 8,500 MWh  
annually. We retro-commissioned our Kiryat  
Gat, Israel, site, saving nearly 2,000 MWh with a  
1.6-year payback. At our San Diego, California,  
site, we completed a lab fume hood variable  
air volume exhaust conversion project that  
included sensors to automatically close the  
hood sash if researchers are not present.  
For 2019, we have already identified and are  
implementing projects with a further 2,100 MWh  
of potential savings at 14 other sites, with  
more projects to follow. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  94 
 Stationary combustion (natural gas and diesel)   Electricity     Energy intensity (MWh   million of net revenue)   
Energy use from operations 
2015 2016 2018 
MWh   million of net revenue   
Renewable energy  
By shifting toward renewable, carbon neutral  
energy, we can reduce GHG emissions  
from operations. In 2018, we procured and  
generated 275,944 MWh of renewable  
electricity globally, including four new on- 
site solar PPAs. Renewables accounted for  
47% of our global electricity consumption.  
This decrease from 50% achieved in 2017  
was due to re-baselining (see About our  
operational data) and real estate reduction  
at sites that used 100% renewable  
electricity. Sources of renewable electricity in  
2018 included RECs and IRECs (77.1%), direct  
purchases (21.7%), and renewable energy  
generated on-site and on-site PPAs (1.2%).  
Through these purchases, we once again  
achieved our objective to use 100% renewable  
electricity in the United States and helped to  
advance the global market for renewables. 
renewable electricity goal Use 60% renewable electricity in our  operations by 2025 and achieve 100%  by 2035 
progress in 2018 HP s global operations procured and  generated 275,944 MWh of renewable  electricity and attributes, equivalent to 47% 
of our global electricity consumption 
on Green Power Partnership Top 30 Tech    Telecom list (as of February 2019)  
HP aims to have an impact on the deployment  
of new renewable electricity where feasible.  
Through a combination of on-site generation,  
retail supply options, and project-specific  
supplier options, we continually search for  
cost-effective opportunities to source new  
renewable power that supplies the energy  
markets in which our sites consume the  
electricity. After achieving our 40% renewable  
electricity goal in 2017, HP has established  
a new goal of achieving 60% renewable  
electricity in our global operations by 2025  
and 100% by 2035. 
We are committed to using 100% renewable  
electricity to power our operations, and in  
2016 joined RE100 led by The Climate Group  
to support these efforts. In 2015, we signed  
the Corporate Renewable Energy Buyers   
Principles. In 2018, HP became one of the  
largest green power users among technology  
and telecommunications partners within the  
U.S. EPA s Green Power Partner Program.  
In early 2019, we were among the first  
companies to sign the Renewable Thermal  
Energy Buyers  Statement. 
than in 2017. Commuting generated 200,000  
tonnes of CO2e emissions, flat from the  
prior year. Our company fleet accounted  
for 32,200 tonnes of CO2e emissions, an  
Business travel,  commuting, and  auto fleet  
In 2018, employee business travel generated  
70,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions, 2% more  
increase of 2% compared to 2017.  
To support HP s GHG emissions reduction  
goal from operations, we plan to reduce GHG  
emissions from HP owned or leased auto fleet  
vehicles by 10% by 2025, compared to 2015.  
Through 2018, we achieved a 2% decrease.  
To reduce emissions, we provide low impact  
travel choices for our employees through  
collaboration with our travel providers,  
planning tools, and initiatives such as the Zipcar  
vehicle share program at our headquarters in  
Palo Alto, California, United States.  
HP is one of 10 founding members of EV100,  
a Climate Group initiative launched in 2017  
to accelerate technological development of  
electric vehicles (EVs) worldwide. In support  
of this effort, we have committed to install EV  
infrastructure at all feasible sites worldwide by  
2040. In 2018, we offered EV infrastructure at  
19% of the 88 target sites, including Geneva,  
Switzerland  Barcelona, Spain  Houston, Texas   
and Palo Alto, California. Wherever feasible,  
we require new building constructions and  
leases to include EV infrastructure. In 2019,  
we plan to add EVs to HP s own fleet. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
Water consumption associated with our  
operations makes up 2% of our total  
footprint. This is about evenly split between  
direct consumption as described in this  
section (mainly for use in buildings, cooling,  
landscaping, and production of high-purity  
water for manufacturing) and indirect  
consumption associated with generation of  
the electricity we use in our facilities. 
We work to reduce consumption and use the  
World Resource Institute s Aqueduct Water  
Risk Atlas tool to assess the risk of sites  
and prioritize water-stressed locations. In  
2018, we consumed 3,406,000 cubic meters  
of water overall, a 5% increase compared  
to 2017, due primarily to business growth.  
Potable water use decreased 6% compared  
to 2015, the baseline year of our goal, due  
to efficiency projects that reduce indoor  
water fixture consumption, process water  
consumption, and irrigation water usage,  
completed at sites including Palo Alto,  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  95 
water consumption goal Reduce potable water consumption  in global operations by 15% by 2025,  compared to 2015 
progress in 2018 Potable water consumption equaled  2,997,000 cubic meters globally, 
less than in 2015 
   HP reports all water withdrawn from municipal sources for   
     Historical consumption-intensity values were calculated  using HP s annual revenue as characterized in financial  reporting  and water consumption. 
California  Boise, Idaho  Rio Rancho, New  
Mexico  Corvallis, Oregon  Singapore  and  
Barcelona, Spain. We also installed smart  
water metering and leak detection devices  
across 13 sites in our Europe, Middle East,  
and Africa region. Water consumption  
intensity per   million of net revenue  
decreased by 6% between 2017 and 2018.  
HP recycled or reused 415,000 cubic meters  
of water3 globally during 2018, including  
407,000 cubic meters of NEWater and 8,000  
 Americas    Europe, Middle East, and Africa    Asia Pacific and Japan    Water consumption intensity  (cubic meters   million of net revenue  ) 
use in its operations as consumed. 
Water consumption  
2016 2017 2015 
cubic meters  
municipal water 
cubic meters   million of net revenue 
     NEWater is ultra-purified wastewater used in  manufacturing operations in Singapore. 
     This category includes groundwater. 
     Direct use of surface water is insignificant and not  included in data reported. Rain water is about 0.1% of  total so is not visible on the graph. 
cubic meters of sewage treatment plant  
water, for landscaping and indoor plumbing  
fixtures. This was equivalent to 12.2% of  
total water consumption. The company  
also captured and used 2,000 cubic meters  
of rain water for cooling towers during the  
year, and plans to implement rain water  
capture systems during 2019 in Barcelona  
for irrigation water use. 
To reduce and recycle water used at  
our facilities, we employ smart building  
practices, sustainable landscaping,  
infrastructure upgrades, and greywater  
reuse. In 2018, we convened a session in  
Municipal water  
11.9%      Wastewater from      another organization    
Water consumption  by source, 2018  
percentage of total 
1.7% Well water    
Singapore with participants from across  
HP, external industry water experts,  
and municipalities to develop creative  
approaches to addressing water challenges  
at the company. As a result, HP added  
water efficiency to new RFP requirements  
and educated employees about water  
conservation. We plan to install water  
submeters at the Singapore campus in 2019. 
HP plans to host similar sessions throughout  
2019 at sites with the highest water use  
and those identified as at risk through a  
World Resources Institute assessment. We  
also improved water efficiency at our Palo  
Alto, California  Boise, Idaho  Rio Rancho,  
New Mexico  and Corvallis, Oregon, sites,  
decreasing domestic water use from fixtures  
by approximately 30% at those locations.  
In Palo Alto, we deployed a smart water  
management service that we expect to  
deliver significant savings. We are pursuing  
similar projects at other high use sites, and  
plan to install water meters in Beijing, China   
Singapore  and Boise and Corvallis.  
In 2017, our Boise facility became the  
first corporate campus worldwide to be  
certified using the USGBC Sustainable  
SITES Initiative v2 rating system, the most  
comprehensive program for designing,  
developing, and maintaining sustainable  
landscapes. Building on that success, in 2018  
we introduced sustainable landscaping at  
our Corvallis campus, which became the first  
USGBC Sustainable SITES certified campus  
in the state of Oregon. We replaced non- 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
water (continued) 
indigenous grasses with native varieties  
that demand less water and attract local  
pollinators. At maturity in 2020, the project  
is expected to save 12,500 cubic meters of  
water annually and reduce water usage from  
irrigation by 25% and landscaping costs by  
30%. In 2019, we plan to launch a similar  
project at our Barcelona campus.  
See detailed data for 2015 2018, the HP  
water submissions.  
Wastewater 
Wastewater is not a significant  
environmental aspect of HP s operations.  
Our imaging and printing product  
manufacturing facilities generate  
process effluents that are pre-treated,  
strictly monitored, and discharged under  
government-issued permits to municipal  
wastewater plants for further treatment.  
We implement procedures to prevent  
unauthorized discharges of chemicals to  
our facility wastewater systems and ensure  
that these sites do not discharge wastewater  
directly to surface water or to groundwater. 
Although our facilities do not generate large  
amounts of waste, we employ a global policy  
of  reduce, reuse, and recycle  that supports  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  96 
water accounting manual, and our CDP  
our company-wide shift toward a circular  
economy. HP generated 32,000 tonnes  
of nonhazardous waste in 2018, up 8%  
compared to 2017, due primarily to increased  
manufacturing. We achieved a 90.9%  
landfill diversion rate globally, and only use  
disposal as a last resort. We reuse electronic  
equipment when possible or recycle it  
responsibly through the same programs we  
offer customers. See Product repair, reuse,  
and recycling. 
  HP sites report nonhazardous waste volumes and  disposition based on information provided by our waste  disposal vendors. For sites unable to directly track  nonhazardous waste, we estimate volumes and disposition  using intensity factors based on similar operations. 
4.0% Electronic  equipment  
9.0% Landfill  
13.3% Other 
3.2% Incineration  
Nonhazardous  waste composition, 2018   
percentage of total  
10.6% Packaging materials 
23.2% Paper 
33.0% Pallets 
TRUE Zero Waste certification is a whole  
systems approach that aims to change how  
materials flow through society. In 2017,  
our Palo Alto headquarters became the  
first technology campus in the state and  
the second globally to achieve Gold TRUE  
certification. We are pursuing certification at  
additional campuses worldwide. 
The main hazardous waste we generate  
is liquid from ink manufacturing facilities.  
These manufacturing sites prioritize  
waste management options with low  
environmental impacts and only use  
disposal as a last resort. Although ink  
manufacturing is a source of hazardous  
waste, HP ink cartridges used by customers  
and in our offices can be recycled and are  
considered nonhazardous in many of our  
major markets.  
We generated 6,910 tonnes of hazardous  
waste in 2018, a 28% increase compared to  
the prior year.  
See detailed waste data for 2015 2018. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
we live, work, and do business, through  
corporate contributions, the work of the  
HP Foundation,1 and employee giving and  
Community giving and volunteerism 
By leveraging our scope and scale,  
together with strategic local partnerships,  
we aim to connect our communities to  
greater economic and social opportunity  
through technology and protect our  
shared environment. We create positive  
local impact in the communities where  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  97 
volunteerism. See HP s Global Charitable  
Contributions Policy. By deploying our  
technology to help solve global challenges,  
we create shared value for HP, our  
customers, and society at large. See Global  
education programs.  
community giving goal Contribute  100 million in HP Foundation  and employee community giving2 by  2025 (cumulative since the beginning  of 2016) 
progress in 2018 Reached  23.21 million 
in HP Foundation and employee  community giving 
Technology-enabled  education and  skills-building 
Corporate  giving 
 7.12 million  in 2018 
In addition, we take a shared value approach to business, deploying our  technology to help solve global challenges and drive value for HP, our  customers, and society at large. 
how we support our communities 
HP  Foundation  giving 
 4.34 million  in 2018 
focus focus areass 
Environmental  stewardship,  resilience, and  disaster recovery 
Employee  giving 
 2.07 million  in 2018 
Inclusion and  empowerment for  underrepresented  and marginalized  people 
 Employee    volunteerism 
140,000 hours  contributed by  6,400 employees  in 2018 
HP Foundation  programs 
HP LIFE: Learning  and employment  opportunities for  aspiring entrepreneurs  
To bridge the  digital divide  and build skills  
for the future, the HP Foundation provides  
core business and IT skills training free of  
charge for start-ups, students, and small  
businesses through HP LIFE (Learning  
Initiative for Entrepreneurs). The program  
offers global access to 30 free online courses  
in seven languages, with a focus on providing  
highly accessible and usable content. New  
courses added to the portfolio during 2018  
included a module on 3D printing. 
hp life goal Enroll 1 million HP LIFE users between  2016 and 2025  
progress in 2018 Enrolled 166,000 
since 2016 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  98 
HP LIFE in Tunisia 
In Tunisia, HP LIFE is supporting  
female learners and small  
business owners. Although women  
represent only about 30% of the  
formal economy in Tunisia, more  
than half of HP LIFE users in that  
country are female and female  
entrepreneurs founded 56% of the  
94 start-up businesses enabled  
through the program between  
October 2016 and September 2018.  
The UN and government-backed  
Mashrou3i program ( my own  
business  in Arabic) is a joint  
program by HP Foundation, UNIDO,  
USAID, and AICS, designed to  
foster youth entrepreneurship in  
Tunisia and support the creation  
and growth of enterprises  
using HP LIFE. The program  
has generated 1,400 jobs and  
supported more than 230 start- 
up businesses since its launch in  
2013. Mashrou3i was extended  
in 2017 with the goal of creating  
more than 6,000 jobs for young  
people in Tunisia by 2021. Since  
2016, more than 22,000 learners  
have enrolled and completed  
nearly 238,000 courses. 
See HP LIFE success stories.  
We have enrolled nearly 750,000 new HP  
LIFE users from 2012 through 2018, including  
approximately 57,000 during the most recent  
year. The greatest uptake occurred in Brazil,  
Egypt, India, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia,  
and the United States.  
The United Nations Industrial Development  
Organization (UNIDO), HP, and the HP  
Foundation signed a memorandum of  
understanding in 2017 renewing our  
partnership to further foster entrepreneurship  
and employment opportunities in developing  
economies, including expanding our work into  
Africa. This was followed by the launch of HP  
LIFE in Nigeria, where more than 5,000 new  
users joined the program in 2018. 
In 2018, HP announced a new commitment  
to reach 100,000 learners across Africa  
over the next three years through HP LIFE.  
HP Matter to a Million 
HP s five-year Matter to a Million  
program with Kiva, which concluded  
in 2018, has enabled 1.1 million  
people to improve their lives. In  
2018, HP employees made more  
than 25,000 loans totaling  639,000  
to small-scale entrepreneurs in 39  
countries, using  25 loan credits  
from the HP Foundation.   
HP is committed to enabling better  learning outcomes for 100 million  people by 2025, since the beginning  of 2015, through application of our  technology, training, R D, and financial  contributions. We invest in programs and  provide technology solutions that meet  learners where they are and take them  where they want to go. See how our  products and partnerships are enabling  better learning outcomes. 
As part of this commitment, HP opened  
a new tech-enabled HP LIFE Center in  
Johannesburg, South Africa.  
BeChangeMaker  (BCM): Empowering  social entrepreneurs 
HP LIFE hosts an annual BCM program, in  
partnership with WorldSkills International,  
which inspires young people aged 18 to 30  
to tackle social issues and increases their  
awareness of social entrepreneurship as  
a career option. In 2017, more than 160  
teams entered from 31 countries. A group  
of HP employees served as team mentors  
while other HP employees joined the judging  
panel. Teams used HP LIFE courses and  
webinars to generate social venture ideas,  
create a viable business model, and pitch  
their concept to the judges. The winning  
teams targeted science education, food  
scarcity, and living conditions, and are all  
enrolled in incubators to further their ideas. 
Imagine Grants 
In November 2018, the HP Foundation  
launched the Imagine Grants initiative to  
support its mission of bringing technology- 
related learning experiences to underserved  
and underrepresented communities. Local  
leaders and HP country managers have  
discretion to identify suitable local charitable  
organizations to receive a cash grant. HP  
locations have a budget of approximately  
 25 per full-time employee, and charities  
are vetted centrally to ensure they align with  
the HP Foundation mission. 
Disaster recovery  and resilience  
HP, our employees, and the HP Foundation  
together provide financial support for  
communities affected by natural disasters  
and emergencies. We work with expert  
partners, including the American Red Cross,  
the International Federation of Red Cross and  
Red Crescent Societies, Save the Children  
and the Information Technology Disaster  
Resource Center (ITDRC) to speed recovery  
and reconnect vital networks.  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
HP Connection Spot:  Mobile disaster relief  
The HP Connection Spot provides  
emergency connectivity to people in the  
contiguous United States who are unable  
to communicate due to a natural disaster.  
The custom-built trailer is equipped with  
HP laptops, chromebooks, printers, and an  
Internet hot spot. Staffed by HP volunteers,  
the HP Connection Spot is also available for  
first responders and nonprofit personnel  
involved in disaster relief efforts. 
The Connection Spot visited Bucksport,  
South Carolina, and Chattahoochee and  
Panama City Beach, Florida, in October 2018,  
to assist with efforts related to Hurricane  
Florence and Hurricane Michael. Ten HP  
employees staffed it during its 19-day  
deployment. The team offered practical  
help to victims and service people, such as  
printing maps and documents, and acted as  
a focal point for communities.  
Employee  volunteerism  
HP taps into the talents, passions, and  
entrepreneurial spirit of employees to  
make a difference in our communities.  
Volunteerism in 2018 was 62% higher than  
in 2017 which had increased a similar  
amount compared to 2016. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  99 
In 2018, 6,400 employees contributed about  
140,000 hours to local volunteer efforts in  
48 countries, with a value of  4.3 million.3  
HP employees are granted four hours paid  
volunteer time per month. In addition, HP s  
Time Off Community Support Grant allows  
employees to apply for a week of paid  
volunteer time to support more intensive  
engagements and travel service projects.  
During our 40 Days of Doing Good campaign,  
HP employees volunteered more than 7,000  
hours at nearly 150 events. Among the  
many activities were coding workshops for  
disadvantaged youth, coaching for veterans  
transitioning to new careers, sessions to  
encourage young girls to pursue STEM  
careers, and time dedicated to shoreline and  
park cleanups, audio book recording, and  
health and nutrition awareness. 
The HP Foundation complemented these  
efforts with grants totalling  412,000  
to support the work of 64 education and  
technology-related learning charities  
employee volunteering goal Contribute 1.5 million employee  volunteering hours by 2025 (cumulative  since the beginning  of 2016) 
progress in 2018 Reached 284,000 
employee volunteering hours 
nominated by our employees. In addition  
to their time, employees also donated  
 2.07 million in cash to qualifying  
organizations during 2018 through our  
HP Inspires Giving program. The HP  
Foundation contributed  1.89 million in  
matching funds. 
See Data for detailed figures. 
Hour of Code 
HP employees volunteer to teach  
coding in schools and community  
organizations around the world,  
with a goal to reach underserved  
student communities, particularly  
ethnic minorities and young  
women. These Hour of Code  
sessions focus on introducing  
students to valuable skills,  
increasing interest in computing  
and technology, and building the  
future pipeline of diverse talent  
for HP. In 2018, more than 1,500  
HP volunteers from 41 company  
sites participated in Hour of  
Code in almost 300 schools and  
communities worldwide, reaching  
over 25,000 students. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
Our employees 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  100 
Women employees [% of total] U.S. new hires, by race   [% of total] 
U.S. employees, by race   [% of total] Women 32.4% 
Women managers  [% of total] Asian 12.1% 
 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 38.1% Black 5.2% 
White 65.1% Men 65.8% 
All minorities 26.3%     Includes all management categories (supervisors,  managers, directors, and executives). 
 Americas 31.0% Native American 0.9% 
 Asia Pacific and Japan 23.2% Hawaiian Pacific Islander 0.1% 
 Americas 34.1% White 59.5% 
 Worldwide 36.1% Hispanic 10.6% 
 Asia Pacific and Japan 36.9% All minorities 32.4% 
 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 28.9% Two or more races 3.5% 
 Worldwide 27.9% Global new hires, by gender    [% of total] 
Hispanic 8.3% 
Asian 11.7% 
Native American 0.5% 
Two or more races 1.8% 
Hawaiian Pacific Islander 0.1% 
    Sum of  White  and  All minorities  does not equal 100%  because not all employees disclose their self-identity.  
     Sum of  Women  and  Men  does not equal 100%  because not all employees disclose their self-identity. 
   This table does not include 222 employees who did not disclose  their self-identity. Further, the data was not available for 1,743  employees of a certain majority-owned, consolidated subsidiary. 
   This table does not include 222 employees who did not disclose their self-identity. Further, the data was not available for 1,743  employees of a certain majority-owned, consolidated subsidiary. 
Asia Pacific and Japan 14,301 8,366 22,667 
Employees (regular full  time and part time) by  region and gender, 2018  Men Women Total 
Employees (regular full time and part time)  by employment type and gender, 2018  Women % Men % Total 
Americas 12,844 6,651 19,495 
Europe, Middle East, and  Africa 6,908 4,351 11,259 
Total 34,053 19,368 53,421 
Total 19,368 34,053 53,421 
Directors 314 30.3% 720 69.5% 1,034 
Executives 98 31.3% 214 68.4% 312 
Managers 1,241 27.1% 3,333 72.8% 4,574 
Executives 0 0% 0 0% 0 
Directors 3 100% 0 0% 3 
Managers 10 90.9% 1 9.1% 11 
Professionals 327 84.3% 61 15.7% 388 
Subtotal 374 66 440 
Other 34 89.5% 4 10.5% 38 
Subtotal 18,994 33,987 52,981 
Professionals 12,586 34.9% 23,263 64.6% 35,849 
Other 4,755 42.3% 6,457 57.4% 11,212 
World workforce by age group,  2018 % of total 
30 and under 19.7% 
31 50 62.7% 
51 and over 17.6% 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
   Lost workday case rate is the number of work-related injuries that result in time away from work per 100 employees and  contractors that HP manages working a full year. Rates are calculated using Occupational Safety and Health Administration  (OSHA) definitions for recordability around the world and using OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are based on  employees working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average in 2017 for the Computer and Peripheral  Equipment Manufacturing industry (NAICS  3341) was 0.2. Americas includes Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia,  Costa Rica, Mexico, Peru, Puerto Rico, and the United States. Asia Pacific and Japan includes Australia, China, Hong Kong, India,  Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. Europe, Middle  East, and Africa includes Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,  Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the Russian Federation, and the United  Kingdom. Data for 2016 are fiscal year. Data for 2017 and 2018 are calendar year.  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  101 
Leading causes of lost workdays [% of total] Leading causes of recordable incidents (with and without lost time) [% of total]  
Lost workday case rate  Recordable incidence rate   
Other 4% 4% 15% Other 8% 12% 15% 
Struck by against cut by 22% 22% 25% Automobile accidents 13% 7% 13% 
Ergonomics materials handling 11% 21% 14% Ergonomics materials handling 11% 12% 17% 
Overexertion not materials handling 3% 11% 2% Ergonomics office environment 6% 3% 2% 
Automobile accidents 26% 10% 20% Slips, trips, and falls 27% 33% 27% 
Slips, trips, and falls 34% 32% 24% Struck by against cut by 35% 33% 26% 
Global 0.16 0.08 0.09 Global 0.22 0.17 0.23 
Americas 0.12 0.11 0.16 Americas 0.23 0.30 0.33 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.36 0.13 0.12 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.43 0.18 0.52 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0.06 0.03 0.02 Asia Pacific and Japan 0.07 0.06 0.03 
2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 
    Recordable incidence rate is the number of all work-related lost-time and no-lost-time cases requiring more than first aid  per 100 employees and contractors that HP manages working a full year. Rates are calculated using OSHA definitions for  recordability around the world and using OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are based on employees working an  average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average in 2017 for the Computer and Peripheral Equipment Manufacturing  industry (NAICS  3341) was 0.6. Americas includes Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Mexico, Peru, Puerto  Rico, and the United States. Asia Pacific and Japan includes Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New  Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes Austria,  Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Poland,  Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the Russian Federation, and the United Kingdom. Data for 2016 are fiscal year.  Data for 2017 and 2018 are calendar year. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
Our facilities (also see GHG emissions data)  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  102 
Direct energy use in operations (corresponds to   Scope 1 emissions)    [MWh] 162,620 155,682 165,138 164,075 
Energy intensity   [MWh   million of net revenue] 16.7 15.3 15.5 13.0  
Energy use [MWh] 859,620 739,682 807,122 758,898  
Indirect energy use (corresponds to Scope 2  emissions) [MWh] 697,000 584,000 641,983 594,823  
Water consumption, by region [cubic meters] 3,952,000 3,535,000 3,243,000     3,406,000 
Natural gas 159,273 154,822 162,716 161,653  
Electricity (purchased) 697,000 584,000 638,023 589,217  
Voluntary purchases of renewable energy  7,000 4,000 231,526 255,797 
Voluntary purchases of no low-carbon  energy 0 0 0 0 
Supplier-specific renewable energy 24,000 18,000 78,182 18,416 
District cooling and heating (purchased) 0 0 3,960   5,606  
Renewable (generated on-site) 232 134 960 1,731 
Diesel gas oil LPG      3,116 726 1,462 691 
Americas 2,121,000 1,670,000 1,476,000 1,648,000 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 520,000 297,000 319,000 307,000 
Asia Pacific and Japan 1,311,000 1,568,000 1,448,000 1,451,000 
Americas 472,000 301,000 260,392 229,653 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 131,000 93,000 149,301 132,578 
Asia Pacific and Japan 94,000 190,000 228,330 226,986 
Americas 0 0 0 0 
Americas 128,691 124,601 129,715 122,564 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 24,426 21,596 29,448 31,262 
Asia Pacific and Japan 6,156 8,625 3,553 7,828 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 3,960 5,606 
2015 2016 2017 2018 
Water consumption, by source   [cubic meters] 3,953,000 3,534,000 3,243,000     3,406,000  
Recycled or reused water    [% of total water consumption] 25.5% 17.1% 12.2% 
Nonhazardous waste [tonnes] 28,100 27,800 29,500          32,000  
Reused treated sewage treatment plant water   [cubic meters] 25,000 1,000 15,000 8,000 
Nonhazardous waste landfill diversion rate  [% of total produced] 
Hazardous waste    [tonnes] 5,560 5,410 6,910 
Nonhazardous waste by type [tonnes] 0 0 29,500          32,000  
Asia Pacific and Japan 1,590  1,380 5,540 
Wastewater from another organization     (NEWater)  746,000 725,000 533,000 407,000 
Municipal water 3,205,000 2,751,000 2,627,000 2,938,000 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 2,370 2,280 1,090 
Tanker water     2,000 0 0 0 
Well water 0 58,000 82,000 59,000 
Rain water 0 0 1,000 2,000 
Americas 1,600            1,750 280 
Landfilled 0 0 2,700 2,900 
Incinerated 0 0 2,300 1,000 
Global 90.9% 90.1% 90.9% 90.9% 
Asia Pacific and Japan 97.2% 95.1% 94.6% 94.6% 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 85.5% 85.4% 87.4% 87.4% 
Americas 16,000 15,900 15,800 13,100 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 7,400 8,000 8,500 5,900 
Recycled 0 0 24,500 28,100 
Americas 91.6% 91.2% 91.6% 91.6% 
Asia Pacific and Japan 4,700 3,900 5,200 13,000 
2015 2016 2017 2018 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Operations 
    Historical energy intensity values were calculated using HP s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and direct  and indirect energy use.  
     Fuel consumption from HP s transportation fleet is not included in the Direct energy use in operations figures. 
      Diesel is mostly used at HP for testing generators. In limited cases, diesel is also used for long-term on-site energy  generation. 
     Water consumption  includes municipal water, wastewater from another organization, tanker water, rain water (beginning in  2017), and well water. Direct use of surface water is insignificant and not included in data reported. Water consumption does  not include reused treated sewage treatment plant water.  
     NEWater is ultra-purified wastewater used in manufacturing operations in Singapore. 
    This includes NEWater (ultra-purified wastewater used in manufacturing operations in Singapore) as well as recycled or  reused water reported by sites globally. Grey water is included, rain water is not. 
     Accounting for the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, it was not feasible to include hazardous  waste data specific to HP Inc. for 2015. 
    Renewable energy and renewable energy credits, excluding renewable energy provided by default in the power grid.   
    Following the acquisition of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. s printer business on November 1, 2017, we recalculated energy  use, water consumption, and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions data from operations back to the baseline of 2015, per  guidance in the GHG Protocol. This process also included an update of the intensity factors used to extrapolate energy use  and water consumption data for sites where direct tracked data was not available. The new intensity factors, along with  recently confirmed square footage data, will more accurately reflect HP s footprint (see HP Carbon Accounting Manual and HP  Water Accounting Manual for details). HP directly tracked data from invoices and other documents representing 91% of total  electricity use, 81% of total natural gas use, 90% of total water consumption, 68% of total nonhazardous waste, and 100% of  total hazardous waste.    
     Tanker water is well water that is delivered to the site by tanker truck. 
     For 2015 and 2016, we calculated ozone-depleting substances emissions by tracking sites that reported refrigerant  replacement due to leakage, and applied an intensity factor (based on those actual quantities) for nonreporting sites. For  2017, HP transitioned to a system that tracks all refrigerant work orders company-wide, directly accounting for facilities   refrigerant leakage and use and eliminating the need for extrapolation. 
      This data represents safety or environmental violations from a federal or state agency. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  103 
    This water is used for landscaping and toilets. 
Number of violations of legal obligations  regulations      0 0 0 4 
Ozone depletion potential of estimated  emissions       [kg of CFC-11 equivalent] 
Fines penalties related to the above [ ]  0  0  0  0 
Asia Pacific and Japan 17  0  0 0 
Americas 34 5 0 2 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1 18 10 4 
2015 2016 2017 2018 
52 24 10                   5  
    Total cash is updated from information reported in past years to reflect more complete data. 
     Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment  through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed.  
Community giving and volunteerism 
    Social investments include all grants made to nonprofit organizations from HP, plus the valuation of employee volunteer  hours. Data excludes contributions to the HP Foundation and employee donations but includes HP s matching contributions  and contributions from the HP Foundation to other organizations. 
      Services  includes the valuation of HP employee volunteer hours. Valuation rates are based on CECP standards. 
    HP LIFE users are also included in the overall students and adult learners data above. 2015 HP LIFE data was tracked using a  different system and are not included due to lack of comparability.  
Contributions to Cash Matching Program [  million] 
Employee volunteer hours 54,800 89,500 140,000 
Social investment  [  million]  6.31    7.60    15.76 
Students and adult learners benefiting from  HP s education programs and solutions 4,629,000  4,970,000 5,238,000 6,543,000 
HP education programs and solutions 2015 2016 2017 2018 
HP LIFE users enrolled  n a  53,000 56,000 57,000 
U.S. employee contributions to Cash Matching Program  1.13  1.70  2.07 
HP Foundation contributions to Cash Matching Program  0.99    1.66  1.89 
Products     1.91  0.73  4.97 
Social investment [% of net earnings] 0.3%   0.3% 0.3% 
HP Foundation cash contributions  1.93    2.82    4.34 
Company cash contributions  1.06    0.55    2.15 
Services      1.41  3.50  4.30 
2016 2017 2018 
Executive summary Appendix Operations Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Footprint Sustainable Impact 
Products and  solutions 
105 Sustainable design 
112 Product responsibility 
114 Products and solutions portfolio 
123 Product repair, reuse, and recycling 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  104 
Products and solutions 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
Sustainable design Inclusive design 
Sustainable Impact inspires us to reinvent  
everything we do including how we  
design, deliver, and recover our products  
and solutions. Across our Personal Systems,  
Print, and 3D Printing businesses, we are  
committed to creating our most sustainable  
portfolio. By reducing the amount of  
materials in our products, increasing our use  
of recycled content, designing for energy  
efficiency, and offering convenient and more  
sustainable services, we are enabling our  
customers to achieve more, with less impact.  
When our products reach end of service, our  
repair, reuse, and recycling options help to  
ensure products are properly handled.  
From transforming education and ensuring  
customer privacy and security to advancing  
healthcare, our products enhance the lives  
of millions of people worldwide. We prioritize  
the health and safety of those who help  
bring our products to market, as well as our  
customers and end-users. Through a focus  
on inclusive and universal design, we work  
to ensure that the benefits of our innovative  
technology empower everyone, everywhere. 
As we look ahead, we anticipate a future  
that is more resource constrained,  
interconnected, and transparent than ever  
before. We know that technology is critical  
to address these challenges, and to driving a  
more circular and low-carbon future. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  105 
Design for  Sustainability 
HP product materials, manufacturing,  
transport, and use account for 98% of our  
value chain carbon footprint. Applying  
sustainable design principles across our  
portfolio is key to reducing our footprint,  
while delivering better performance for our  
customers and benefiting the planet, our  
people, and communities worldwide.  
In 1992, we developed our Design  
for Sustainability program (originally  
Design for the Environment) to formally  
consider factors impacting sustainability  
performance throughout the product design  
and development phases. Using a science- 
based approach, we evaluate our products  
to identify and prioritize improvement  
opportunities and set goals. The program,  
which is integrated into HP s product  
development process, encompasses  
management systems, processes, tools,  
and company-wide collaboration to  
support our teams in several key areas.  
Our approach has continually evolved in  
response to technological and scientific  
developments, changes to our supply chain,  
and customer demand. 
Design for Sustainability supports our circular  
economy strategy and is an important driver  
of business value. In 2018, we tracked roughly  
 10 billion in new and potential revenue  
associated with deals in which we met  
customer requirements for registered product  
eco-labels, including ENERGY STAR , EPEAT ,  
Blue Angel, TCO, and others. 
At HP, we believe that creating inclusive technology affirms human dignity, promotes  
independence, and unleashes creativity. Every person s access needs are diverse and  
individual, and can be situational, acquired, temporary, or lifelong. HP teams consider  
accessibility early in product development, conduct user testing with individuals who  
have disabilities, and incorporate feedback from the global disability community.  
For example, we are incorporating easy-to-use voice technology across our web- 
enabled consumer printers and offering the HP Accessibility Assistant our secure  
voice and screen reader accessory in a wide range of office printers.  
HP also participates in industry and government efforts to advance worldwide  
standards and policies that improve the accessibility of information and technology. 
Customer requirements for easy-to-use, accessible products continue to explode,  
especially to support the rapidly aging global population, and HP is committed to  
ensuring that the benefits of our innovative technology empower everyone, everywhere.  
For more information on our accessibility program, please visit the HP Office of Aging  
and Accessibility.  
Product design and development operations  
for our HP LaserJet Enterprise Solutions, HP  
Inkjet Printing Systems, and Personal Systems  
product groups are ISO 14001 certified.  
We conduct internal compliance audits and  
benchmark against industry best practices on  
an ongoing basis. Relevant products undergo  
a range of external certifications. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
HP Design for Sustainability addresses a broad  range of issues across the product life cycle. 
Repair, reuse, and recycle products at end of service 
Rapid innovation is increasing the urgency to move toward circular  
models where products stay in use as long as possible and materials are  
responsibly recycled and repurposed at product end of service. As part  
of designing for end of service, we consider factors such as availability of  
spare parts, ease of disassembly, materials identification, and ability to  
separate materials. Our repair, reuse, and recycling programs help keep  
products in use, and at end of service, support responsible collection and  
processing to recover and reuse as much material as possible. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  106 
Improve energy efficiency to  enable a low-carbon economy 
well as inclusive design principles, and our products enable better  
learning outcomes for millions of people around the world. 
Energy consumption during product use is one of the largest  
contributors to our carbon and water footprints, so continually  
improving product energy efficiency is central to our sustainable  
design strategy. See Energy efficiency. 
Deliver positive social impact 
Through innovative partnerships and materials sourcing, we  
improve livelihoods. Through our supply chain engagements, we  
increase the availability of recycled materials while supporting  
safe workplaces, healthy lifestyles, and skills development. To  
meet our customers  needs, we follow security and privacy as  
HP  Design for   Sustainability 
Advance materials innovation to improve  environmental and human health impacts 
Progress toward a circular economy requires keeping materials in  
use for as long as possible and ensuring they can be easily reused  
or recycled. We continually work to eliminate materials of concern,  
increase materials efficiency, and circulate materials through use of  
recycled content. See Materials innovation.   
Extend product life through  durability and repairability 
We provide free service documentation for most products, supplemented  
with service options and warranties, including through HP Care Pack  
Central. The HP Customer Self Repair Services Media Library provides  
tutorials and instructions, and the HP Parts Store sells PC and printer  
parts. Learn more in Products and solutions portfolio. 
Service-based models deliver better value to customers with reduced  
environmental impact and capital costs. Customers can access the  
latest technology, while HP manages the fleet. An ongoing relationship  
strengthens engagement and provides valuable insights on customer  
behavior and needs. Service-based offerings support the transition to  
a circular economy. Regular maintenance increases product longevity  
and decreases waste. Fewer individual product shipments and  
customer store visits decrease GHG emissions. Value is recaptured at  
end of service through product repair, reuse, and recycling. Learn more  
in Products and solutions portfolio. 
Drive customer and environmental  value with product-as-a-service 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
quantify the environmental characteristics  
and impacts of our products and solutions  
and help bring a science-based perspective  
to our continuous improvement efforts and  
goals. Through these efforts, we identify  
the processes, components, and materials  
with the largest environmental impacts,  
compare them with possible alternatives,  
and target product performance  
improvements that deliver value to our  
customers and our business. Increasingly,  
we are also applying LCA to service-based  
models to understand the benefits. 
We follow LCA standards ISO 14040 14044.  
For PCFs, we use International  
Electrotechnical Commission Technical  
Life cycle  assessment 
HP is an industry leader in life cycle  
assessment (LCA) and product carbon  
footprinting (PCF).1 We use these tools to  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  107 
   EPEAT data for personal systems is for models registered worldwide and for printers is for models registered in the United States. ENERGY STAR data (7.0 or 6.1 for personal systems and 2.0 for printers) is worldwide. China SEPA data applies only to products  registered in China. TCO data is for commercial desktops, notebooks, all-in-ones, and displays shipped in Europe. Blue Angel applies only to products registered in Germany. All data is for models shipped anytime during fiscal year 2018. 
Personal systems 94% 62% 31% 0% 94% 55% 34% NA 
Printers 71% 7% 58% 6% 98% 98% NA 64% 
Products EPEAT identifies high-performance, environmentally preferable products ENERGY STAR   recognizes products with  superior energy efficiency 
Blue Angel recognizes criteria in product  design, energy consumption, chemical  emissions, noise, recyclable design,  and take-back programs EPEAT (all  categories) EPEAT Gold  registered EPEAT Silver  registered EPEAT Bronze  registered 
In 2018, we: 
offering for commercial PCs with traditional  
transactional sales offerings. Learn more.   
Report 62921, a streamlined methodology  
for assessing the carbon footprint of  
computer and display products. We  
continually update our LCA and PCF tools  
to ensure that they provide current and  
accurate information. 
We completed a preliminary LCA in 2019  
comparing HP s Device as a Service (DaaS)  
  Completed an ISO-compliant, peer- 
  Completed or updated 24 LCAs of HP  
reviewed LCA of an HP Pro x2 612 G2  
Tablet, which determined that the most  
significant environmental impacts occur  
in manufacturing, due largely to the  
production of displays and motherboards.  
of HP Original compared to imitation  
toner cartridges.  
desktop, DesignJet, and enterprise  
printers, as well as a peer-reviewed LCA  
Eco-labels across our portfolio 
% models, for products shipped in 2018  
To promote LCA within and beyond the  
industry, HP has a seat on the Board of  
Directors of the American Center for Life  
Cycle Assessment. 
Product  certifications   and disclosures  
Product certifications help drive  
sustainability performance across the  
industry by providing comprehensive  
information that enables customers to make  
more sustainable product choices. We share  
  Conducted 50 PCFs of all new business  
HP desktops, notebooks, tablets,  
workstations, thin clients, all-in-one  
computers, digital signage, and displays  
to better understand performance and  
inform ongoing design improvements.  
China SEPA recognizes energy-saving  and environmentally  preferable models 
TCO recognizes various ergonomic  and environmental features  related to visual displays 
extensive product safety and environmental  
information online and contribute to the  
development of new standards. Between  
2014 and 2018, HP participated in the  
standard development process of IEEE  
1680.1-2018, which is used to register PCs  
and displays to EPEAT . When the registry  
went live in 2019, HP achieved several  
industry firsts. 
  HP Carbon Footprint Calculator 
  Eco-labels  
  ECO Declarations In 2018, HP provided  
  Safety Data Sheets 
  Product compliance declarations and  
  Disassembly instructions 
ECO Declarations for product groups  
representing 93% of revenue  
certifications 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
the energy consumption of our HP inkjet  
portfolio by 20%, on average.4 
Energy efficiency 
The energy consumed by our products  
during use is one of the largest contributors  
to our carbon and water footprints. We use  
multiple metrics to assess progress and  
drive improvement. 
Product energy  efficiency 
Since 2010, the energy consumption of our  
personal systems products dropped by 44%,  
on average, despite the general increase in  
software power demands during that period.  
This included average reductions in energy  
consumption of 47% in desktops, 34%  
in notebooks, and 30% in workstations.2  
Key drivers in 2018 included:  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  108 
During that timeframe, we have also  
reduced energy consumption of our HP  
LaserJet portfolio by 56%, on average,3 and  
  Personal systems: Ongoing design  
  Printing: We continue to improve energy  
improvements, including more efficient  
CPUs and power supplies and a shift  
toward small form factor desktops,  
contributed to continued reductions  
in typical energy consumption of our  
desktops, notebooks, and workstations.  
See Personal systems.  
efficiency in our LaserJet products. See  
Home and office printing. Other factors  
in 2018 included improved LaserJet and  
increase was due primarily to higher PC sales,  
which more than offset improved energy  
efficiency on average. Printer GHG emissions  
related to product energy use decreased by  
17%, despite increased shipments year over  
year (see key drivers in 2018 at left). 
Product use represented 77% of our water  
footprint, due to the considerable amounts  
of cooling water required during electricity  
Product use carbon and  water footprints 
In 2018, 52% of our overall carbon footprint  
resulted from the energy, paper, and ink,  
toner, and resin supplies consumed during  
product use, 51% of which was due to  
electricity consumption.  
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from product  
use equaled 23,400,000 tonnes of CO2e  
in 2018, up 6% compared to 2017.6 This  
inkjet power usage data, shifts in the inkjet  
printer portfolio mix toward more efficient  
models, and shipping more PageWide web  
presses, which have high duplexing rates. 
product use ghg emissions  intensity reduction goal Reduce HP product use GHG emissions  intensity by 30% by 2025, compared   to 20155 
progress through 2018 
decrease achieved 
prior year, due to the same factors that  
increased GHG emissions (see above). 
See product use carbon and water footprint  
generation as well as water use related  
to paper production. Water consumption  
related to product use equaled 195,000,000  
million cubic meters, 7% higher than the  
Materials  innovation 
Following the HP materials strategy, we  
are pushing toward a circular model of  
production and consumption, using materials  
efficiently and responsibly, keeping them in  
use for as long as possible, and recycling and  
reusing products at end of service.  
  Increase materials e iciency   Require sustainable fiber (certified or recycled) for    packaging and paper   Increase recycled or ocean-bound plastics for products    and solutions 
  Restrict chemicals of concern for products, packaging,    and manufacturing processes   Eliminate unnecessary packaging materials and space   Eliminate hard-to-recycle plastic for packaging 
  Generate demand for recycled content   Choose materials with higher recycling rates worldwide   Enable circularity by incorporating safer chemical     alternatives into produtcs, packaging, and paper 
HP is a signatory to the Ellen MacArthur  
Foundation New Plastics Economy Global  
Commitment to eliminate plastic pollution  
at its source. The three key principles of  
its framework eliminate, innovate, and  
circulate underpin our approach to product  
materials use, paper, and packaging. 
Restrict materials  of concern 
We aspire to a world where our products and  
operations use materials and chemicals that  
cause no harm. For more than two decades,  
we have worked to move the electronics  
industry toward safer alternatives to  
chemicals of concern. See key milestones  
in our Green Chemistry Timeline. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
The HP Materials and Chemical Management  
Policy guides how we specify materials and  
chemicals for use in products, packaging,  
and manufacturing processes. This policy  
applies to all HP employees and businesses  
worldwide and extends to our suppliers. Our  
approach includes:  
When exploring safer alternatives to materials  
currently in use, we follow a precautionary  
approach. We follow the National Academies  
of Science publication A Framework to  
Guide Selection of Chemical Alternatives and  
incorporate the GreenScreen  for Safer  
Chemicals methodology.  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  109 
  Proactively identifying and evaluating  
  Prioritizing materials for restriction by  
  Working with and guiding our suppliers  
materials used in our products and  
throughout our supply chain, and publicly  
providing information on the material  
content of typical HP personal systems  
and printers.  
assessing published lists of substances  
of concern, customer preferences, new  
or upcoming legal requirements, and  
sound scientific analysis that reveals  
a potential impact on human health  
or the environment. See HP s General  
Specification for the Environment (GSE). 
on replacing substances of concern  
with environmentally preferable  
alternatives. As of 2018, 98.5% of the  
total mass of HP products consists  
of chemicals and materials that are  
considered safer alternatives.7 
Highlights from 2018 include:  
For more information on our progress  
toward safer alternatives, see our Green  
Chemistry Timeline. 
As part of our full materials disclosure  
program, we require suppliers to report  
an ingredients list and the amount of each  
material used, with provisions to protect  
confidential business information. During  
2018, we collected an inventory of more  
than 90% of substances by product weight  
for EPEAT  2019- registered personal  
systems products.  
HP contributes to standards, legislation,  
and improved approaches to materials use  
in the IT sector. We participate in Green  
America s Clean Electronics Production  
Network (CEPN), and during 2018 worked  
with CEPN to streamline and refine our  
alternative materials assessment guide,  
which we are donating to the industry. We  
are also involved in several projects under  
Clean Production Action, including the  
Business-NGO Working Group (BizNGO) and  
the Chemical Footprint Project (CFP). 
  75% of HP personal systems product  
  100% of HP desktop PC external power  
  Beryllium has been restricted for all HP  
series are low halogen8  
supplies are low halogen9  
personal systems products that will ship  
in 2019 and beyond 
See how HP Multi Jet Fusion technology  and processes support a cleaner, safer  workplace in 3D printing.  
Increase materials  efficiency 
We work to continually reduce the volume of  
materials in new products to lower impacts  
associated with raw materials extraction  
and manufacturing. In 2018, we used  
approximately 1 million tonnes10 of materials  
   Personal systems and printer values are based on individual product data. Estimates for printer volumes do not include  graphic arts, industrial, web press printers, scanners, or ink or toner cartridges. Product data for personal systems is based on  calendar year for 2014 2015 and 2018, and fiscal year for 2016 2017. Product data for printers is based on calendar year for  2014 2015 and fiscal year for 2016 2018. Net revenue data is based on HP s fiscal year. In some cases, segments do not add  up to total due to rounding. 
    This total was updated to correct a calculation error stated in the HP 2017 Sustainable Impact Report.  
in our products and packaging, of which  
    This value is stated as 0.0 due to rounding. 
Metal  4.5 3.6 3.0 2.6 2.8 14.7 15.4 17.6 17.0 14.8 
Batteries 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   
Total 9.4 7.7 7.7 6.3    6.6 44.8 48.4 53.9 51.3 45.2 
Plastic 1.9 1.5 1.6 1.4 1.5 28.0 30.9 33.8 31.6 28.0 
Wires cables 0.8 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.4 
PCAs 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 1.7 1.7 2.0 2.3 2.0 
LCDs 1.4 1.2 1.8 1.3 1.4 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   
Estimated materials use intensity for  HP high-volume personal systems and printers  
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 
Personal systems Printers 
(tonnes   millions of net revenue) 
390,000 tonnes (39%) were renewable.  
Materials use intensity (tonnes   millions  
of net revenue) rose by 5% for personal  
systems, compared to 2017, due partly to  
an increase in the average size of displays.  
Despite that change, materials use intensity  
in 2018 was 14% lower than in 2016, due to  
a shift toward thinner and lighter notebooks  
as well as a move toward ultra small form  
factors for desktops and workstations.  
Materials use intensity in printers fell by  
12% between 2017 and 2018. The main  
factor was a continued shift toward smaller  
LaserJet and inkjet printers. See examples  
in Home and office printing solutions. See  
materials use intensity data.  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
Increase recycled content  
We are both a supplier and user of recovered  
materials, incorporating increasing amounts  
of recycled and recyclable content into  
new HP products. This helps to accelerate  
the development of recovered materials  
markets around the world, which supports  
progress toward a circular economy.  
Since 2016, we have also helped to reduce  
ocean-bound plastic while benefiting local  
communities through our sourcing initiative  
in Haiti.  
   Total does not equal sum of segments due to rounding. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  110 
Total 18,160  21,250 
Product group 2017 2018 
Personal systems 8,080 8,360 
Printers 1,260 4,790 
HP ink cartridges 5,901 5,354 
HP toner cartridges 2,921 2,746 
postconsumer recycled  content plastic goal Use 30% postconsumer recycled content  plastic across HP s personal systems and  print product portfolio by 2025.11 
progress through 2018 7% 
Recycled plastic used  in HP products 
Through 2018, we manufactured over  
13,150 tonnes total in 2018.  
Through our closed-loop recycling program  
for hardware, customers can return used  
electronic products to any one of about  
1,000 Best Buy stores in the United States.  
Customers who return printers receive a 15%  
discount off a new HP inkjet printer. Best Buy  
recyclers process returned hardware and  
recover postconsumer recycled plastic resin  
for HP to use in new HP ENVY Photo 6200,  
7100, and 7800 Printers.  
Ink and toner cartridges 
We use a variety of plastics recycled from  
the HP Planet Partners recycling program to  
manufacture new HP ink and toner cartridges.  
See how HP ink cartridges get recycled. 
4.2 billion HP ink and toner cartridges  
using more than a cumulative 107,000  
tonnes of recycled plastic. This has kept  
830 million HP cartridges and an estimated  
101 million apparel hangers and 4.37 billion  
postconsumer plastic bottles out of  
landfills, instead upcycling these materials  
for continued use. More than 80% of our  
Original HP ink cartridges contain 45 70%  
postconsumer recycled content, and 100%  
of Original HP toner cartridges12 contain  
We continue to use recycled content plastic  
(RCP) in our personal systems and printers   
5 45% post-consumer or postindustrial  
recycled content.  
In 2018, we worked to further expand and  
refine our RCP supply chain to support  
increased RCP use in HP products in 2019  
and beyond.  
Learn how we gain more value from  
materials through our product repair, reuse,  
and recycling programs.   
Through 2018, the program:  
We help customers print more sustainably  
by responsibly sourcing the paper we sell,  
facilitating more efficient paper use, and  
collaborating across the paper industry to  
encourage best practices. In our operations,  
we apply these principles through our  
Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy,  
the first forestry policy published by an  
IT company. We require our suppliers and  
licensees to follow this policy for the paper  
and packaging they provide.  
To achieve our zero deforestation goal, all  
HP brand paper and paper-based packaging  
must be derived from recycled and certified  
sources. We continue to give preference to  
Forest Stewardship Council  (FSC )-certified  
  Supported increased printer sales at  
  Reduced supply chain costs  
  Recovered 694 tonnes of recycled plastic  
resin from recycled electronics for use in  
our printers (in addition to 2,276 tonnes  
recovered from other strategic recycling  
partners)  
participating Best Buy stores  
certified fiber in HP brand paper continued  
to exceed 55%, by weight. 
Paper-based product packaging represents  
39% of HP fiber tonnage. In 2018, we: 
fiber where available. Programme for the  
Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC)  
certification or relevant national certification  
schemes can also be used if they comply  
with our paper policy. We work with WWF  
Global Forest   Trade Network (GFTN)    
North America, FSC, and our suppliers to  
determine the source of virgin fiber and to  
increase the amount of certified fiber. HP  
reports progress annually to the WWF GFTN  
and CDP forests program.  
The paper used by our customers in HP  
products represents about 21% of our  
carbon footprint and 35% of our water  
footprint. We help customers print more  
responsibly by designing printers and  
software to optimize paper use, defaulting  
many print fleets to double-sided printing,  
reducing paper waste through HP Managed  
Print Services, and improving the recyclability  
of paper by developing solutions for paper  
de-inking. See Zero deforestation. 
HP brand paper represents 61% of HP fiber  
tonnage. Since 2016, we have met our zero  
deforestation goal for HP brand paper, as it  
is derived entirely from certified and recycled  
sources.13 In 2018, the amount of FSC -  
  Expanded our program to include sub-tier  
  Held about 15 meetings and training  
packaging suppliers.  
sessions with sub-tier suppliers, contract  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  111 
We analyze our supply chain to understand  
areas of specific risk (due to weak  
regulation or biodiversity risks) and create  
specific strategies as needed. To further  
support our goal related to packaging,  
we are working with WWF to develop a  
conformance assurance program. This will  
complement fiber certification and enhance  
due diligence by identifying high-level  
country risks including deforestation, forest  
loss, corruption, and illegal harvesting or  
trading of timber. 
  Completed assessment of the status for  
  Identified corrective actions to address by  
manufacturers, and original design  
manufacturers, to support suppliers in  
meeting our requirements.  
100% of HP s first-tier packaging suppliers  
and 55% of contract manufacturers and  
original design manufacturers who source  
packaging from sub-tier suppliers.  
the end of 2019. 
zero deforestation goal Achieve zero deforestation associated  with HP brand paper and paper-based  product packaging by 202014 
progress through 2018 100% 
achieved for HP brand paper in 2016 and  maintained that performance through  2018. Reached 65% for paper-based  product packaging  
   Does not include packaging for commercial and  industrial graphics printing solutions, or documentation  for any products. 
Our environmental packaging strategy  
focuses on elimination, innovation, and  
circulation, to enhance customer experience  
while driving progress toward the circular  
economy. We are making progress toward  
our goal to produce 100% of paper-based  
product packaging from certified and  
recycled sources by 2020 (see Paper for  
progress). We offer packaging take-back  
services, and regularly update our Recycle  
your HP packaging guide to help consumers  
avoid landfill.  
To reduce our use of plastic, foam, and  
hard-to-recycle materials, we implemented  
molded fiber cushions on about 500,000  
tonnes HP paper impacts, 2017 
5,000,000 Paper use in HP printers  
152,900   Paper-based packaging   use for HP products  236,800 HP printer and copier paper sold 
HP paper impacts, 2018 
Omen Notebooks and more than 600,000  
desktop personal systems during 2018,  
and plan to extend this approach to the  
majority of our commercial desktops and  
notebooks. This eliminates most of the  
plastic foam from the package, and during  
the year avoided 115 tonnes of plastic while  
increasing recycled fiber use by nearly  
240 tonnes. We expect to make similar  
improvements to printer and displays  
packaging in the coming years.  
By using ultra lightweight Semi-Chem  
paper for cartons, we saved more than  
1,200 tonnes of corrugated notebook and  
desktop packaging in 2018. We also focus on  
documentation included in the box. During  
the year, we eliminated up to 65% of printed  
HP brand paper and packaging  fiber sourcing, 2018 
72% Certifed fiber 14% Recycled fiber 
2% Non-certified fiber 
12% Limited knowledge of source 
documents in HP Chromebooks by removing  
and streamlining regulatory guides and  
warranty cards where not legally required.  
During the year, we developed innovations  
to reduce our use of virgin plastic bags.  
We replaced the traditional bag on the  
Envy 7800 printer with thin shrink film,  
avoiding 79 tonnes of plastic bags. HP  
also introduced an innovative double layer  
plastic bag for the Envy 5055 printer. The  
solution bonds two bags (virgin plastic  
on the inside and RCP on the outside) to  
increase RCP use while maintaining the  
smooth surface of the virgin material that  
touches the product, to avoid scratching.  
Our efforts extend beyond the package.  
During the year, HP used 88,000 pallets  
made from over 3,500 tonnes of straw  
that would otherwise have been burned as  
agricultural waste. Further, sourcing recycled  
pallets in North America enabled HP to avoid  
571,000 new pallets in 2018. 
During 2019, we plan to further increase  
our emphasis on recyclability and recycled  
content, reduce use of plastic foam  
cushioning and smaller plastic packaging  
components, and increase use of certified  
fiber-based packaging. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  112 
 9.3 million saved CO2 
INNOVATION 
SUSTAINABILITY 
RELIABILITY 
15,500 tonnes of recycled content material used 
30 innovative projects  reducing environmental  impact 
6,500 tonnes CO2e avoided 
Packaging innovation in 2018 
INNOVATION 
SUSTAINABILITY 
RELIABILITY 
2,000 tonnes of material reduced 
Product responsibility 
We are committed to the safety, security,  
and privacy of our customers when they use  
HP products. The company maintains high  
standards in these areas, and continues to  
innovate across our portfolio. 
Product safety  
HP products are designed to operate safely.  
All HP branded electrical products undergo  
evaluations and testing to ensure that they  
meet our safety standards and the external  
standard IEC 62368-1. We work to identify  
opportunities for ongoing improvement in  
this area. We share extensive product safety  
information online to support our customers   
informed purchasing decisions.  
Safety Data Sheets are available for HP  
formulated products, including inks, toners,  
and 3D powders and bonding agents,  
and provide information such as physical,  
chemical, and toxicological properties,  
regulatory details, and recommendations to  
ensure safe handling. Many HP products also  
qualify for eco-labels and other certifications  
that cover health and safety as well as  
environmental aspects.  
Regardless of where they are sold,  
all HP branded products conform to  
international electrical safety and  
electromagnetic compatibility standards.  
View Declarations of Conformity for  
European Union requirements. Contact  
HP s product compliance customer support  
at techregshelp hp.com regarding  
declarations for other countries.  
In 2018, focus areas included:  
  Materials of concern: We take a science- 
  Battery safety: Our cross-functional  
team works to assess and continually  
improve rechargeable battery safety. 
based approach to evaluating and  
restricting chemicals and materials in HP s  
products and supply chain. See Materials  
innovation.  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
Product security  and privacy 
Cybersecurity is an increasing concern of  
our customers worldwide. We continually  
enhance HP products, solutions, and  
services to offer industry-leading resiliency  
capabilities that anticipate an ever-evolving  
attack and threat landscape. 
We follow security and privacy by design  
principles for all our products, from design  
through customer use, refurbishment, and  
recycling. We build protection, detection,  
and recovery into the device, not just  
the software, providing customers with  
separate, auditable mechanisms for  
managing security risks. To protect against  
the malware of the future, PCs and printers  
must have hardware-level security that  
integrates seamlessly with the customers   
broader IT network security infrastructure.  
This is the foundation of our strategy.  
HP s Security Management Review  
Committee oversees our portfolio-wide  
approach to security and provides the  
resources needed to support HP s continued  
leadership. An external Security Advisory  
Board, consisting of three members with  
broad background in offensive and defensive  
security, advises us of the ever-changing  
threat landscape, augmenting our own work  
and research through HP Labs. All three  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  113 
members have first-hand expertise in the  
world of hacking and the latest developments  
in security technology and strategies. 
We continually conduct threat analysis on  
emerging attack vectors, which in turn helps  
guide product security development efforts.  
We employ cybersecurity specialists and  
conduct cybersecurity architecture reviews,  
penetration testing, code reviews, and  
automated code scanning using industry- 
leading tools. When issues arise, we take  
appropriate actions to remediate reported  
security vulnerabilities. 
In 2018, we adopted the industry best  
practice Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure   
approach, which describes how we work  
with partners, industry, and the security  
community to address vulnerabilities. When  
notified about a suspected vulnerability, we  
investigate thoroughly and, if confirmed,  
work with the submitter on remediation and  
a coordinated public release of information. 
The HP supply chain security group works to  
ensure that our products can resist attacks  
throughout the supply chain life cycle, from  
component sourcing and manufacturing  
to transportation, service, and take-back.  
Our HP Product Cybersecurity Standard  
for Suppliers, enforced through periodic  
audits, contractually holds all suppliers  
to requirements that mitigate the risks of  
counterfeits, malware, and tampering. 
against destructive attacks. To ensure critical  
security features cannot be accidentally or  
maliciously disabled, HP Sure Run4 delivers  
across many notebook PCs, AiO desktops,  
and displays. 
The HP Endpoint Security Controller (ESC)  
is our foundation and has been certified by  
a third-party lab. It establishes a Hardware  
Root of Trust and is physically isolated from  
the machine s CPU and operating system  
(OS), providing resiliency to the device BIOS,  
OS, and critical OS applications. HP also  
uses an industry standards-based discrete  
Trusted Platform Module, certified to  
Common Criteria EAL4 . 
HP Sure Start2 automatically recovers  
Our commercial PCs with HP Sure Start   
meet and exceed the National Institute of  
Standards and Technology s (NIST) Platform  
Firmware Resiliency Guidelines. 
Personal systems 
HP produces the world s most secure  
and manageable PCs and workstations.1  
firmware to a known good state, and HP Sure  
Recover3 provides automatic, fast recovery  
cryptographically verified persistence. 
HP Sure Click5 provides hardware-based  
isolation for malware delivered through  
websites or common attachments.  
Harnessing Deep Learning technology, HP  
Sure Sense6 delivers real-time prevention  
against never-before-seen malware.  
To address visual hacking of onscreen  
confidential data, HP Sure View7 is offered  
enhanced security through real-time threat  
isolation technology, protecting against  
malware introduced through email, browsers,  
and files, and extends the insights and reports  
provided by HP TechPulse analytics. 
HP offers manageability solutions for both  
enterprises and small businesses. 
Learn more. 
To help HP Device as a Service (DaaS)  
customers better protect against, understand,  
and respond to threats, we offer HP DaaS  
Proactive Security.8 This service delivers  
HP s printers and multifunction printers offer  
the industry s strongest security features,9  
and our FutureSmart printers meet and  
exceed the NIST Platform Firmware  
Resiliency Guidelines. 
HP FutureSmart printers automatically self- 
heal and recover from attacks, following four  
unique and automated steps: 
  Whitelisting authenticates that the  
  Run-time intrusion detection continually  
  HP Sure Start validates the BIOS and,  
if compromised, self-heals with a safe  
 golden copy.  
firmware is authentic and has not been  
tampered with before running it. 
monitors memory activity to detect and  
stop attacks, and then recover the device  
to a secure state. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
SIEM, which complement our existing  
certified integrations with Splunk, ArcSight,  
and SIEMonster tools. 
HP Print Security Services combined with  
innovative device, data, and document  
security helps customers protect their  
fleets, address compliance requirements,  
and proactively identify gaps in defenses. Our  
Credentialed Security Experts and trained print  
specialists work with customers to assess their  
printing environment, develop and implement  
a plan, and provide ongoing management. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  114 
Our bug bounty program for printing devices,  
launched in 2018, offers rewards for bug  
bounty researchers who expose flaws in our  
print technology. This initiative integrates  
and leverages highly trained, geographically  
diverse ethical hackers with deep, hard- 
to-find technical skills and unleashes them  
to find obscure, previously unidentified  
vulnerabilities in our devices before they are  
released to market. 
HP JetAdvantage Security Manager is the  
industry s only comprehensive  policy- 
based printer security compliance tool that  
assesses and remediates HP printer fleets.  
For security administrators in 2018, HP  
strengthened our position as the easiest  
print fleet to secure and manage with new  
integrations including Microsoft System  
Center Configuration Manager  and McAfee  
  HP Connection Inspector analyzes  
outgoing network connections to stop  
suspicious traffic, and if necessary,  
recover the device to a secure state. 
Products and solutions portfolio 
HP aims to deliver technology that  
improves lives and enables our customers  
and consumers to achieve more, safely, and  
with less environmental impact. Through  
our portfolio of products and services, we  
create shared value for planet, people, and  
the communities where we live, work, and  
do business. 
  From laptops and workstations to gaming  
  Our commercial and industrial graphics  
  HP 3D printing technology is driving  
  As the global leader in home and office  
printing solutions, we continue to redefine  
the marketplace, delivering sustainable  
next generation solutions and service- 
based models to meet the needs of our  
customers globally.  
printing solutions are driving the analog- 
to-digital revolution, transforming our  
customers  supply chains and better  
matching supply with demand across the  
2D printing and publishing industries, as  
well as other commercial and industrial  
sectors such as packaging and labeling.  
transformation across sectors, changing  
how whole industries design, make, and  
distribute products for a more sustainable  
Fourth Industrial Revolution. 
customers the security, durability, and  
energy and materials efficiency they  
expect and depend on.  
and VR devices, we design our personal  
systems products and services to provide  
Investing in R D 
HP is reinventing the future through  
transformative technologies that will  
disrupt industries and economies  
around the world.  
In 2018, HP spent  1.4 billion on ongoing  
product development and creating  
the transformative and disruptive  
technologies of the future. We invest in  
areas where we can make the greatest  
impact, and we integrate sustainability  
into our research agenda. Read more at  
hpmegatrends.com.  
The vast majority of our R D spending is  
focused on inventions and development  
for products that will be released in the  
next one to two years. The remaining  
amount is roughly split in two areas. The  
first part is dedicated to new business  
creation (including 3D printing and  
microfluidics). The rest is spread across  
HP Labs and the business units for  
developing technologies that will mature  
over the following three to seven years.  
At HP Labs, we focus on new  
technologies that will either result in  
new business creation, fundamental  
breakthroughs in science, or new  
product categories. Key areas of  
research include:  
As of October 31, 2018, HP s worldwide  
patent portfolio included over 26,000  
See Personal systems, Home and office  
printing solutions, Commercial and  
industrial graphics printing solutions, and  
3D printing for examples of innovation in  
each of our product groups. 
  Artificial Intelligence and emerging  
  Print adjacencies and microfluidics  
  Security 
  3D printing 
  Digital manufacturing 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
Personal systems 
From our commercial and consumer  
desktop and notebook personal computers  
to workstations, thin clients, displays,  
and other products, HP Personal Systems  
continues to deliver the breakthrough  
innovations in productivity, security,  
durability, upgradeability, and environmental  
performance that our commercial and  
home users demand. Through growth in  
key industry verticals, including education  
and healthcare, and through emerging  
product categories, such as blended and  
virtual reality and gaming, we are expanding  
opportunities for end users to create,  
innovate, and inspire. 
Sustainable standards  and certifications 
HP is fully committed to product development  
in line with a range of exacting, third-party  
eco-label requirements. We share our leading  
practices across the industry, including  
contributing to standards development. From  
2014 2018, HP helped revise IEEE 1680.1, the  
standard used for EPEAT  in PCs and displays.  
World s first Gold and Silver  EPEAT 2019 personal systems  products  
In February 2019, HP achieved an important  
milestone by becoming the world s first  
manufacturer to register EPEAT 2019 Gold  
and Silver Desktops, Notebooks, All in ones,  
Workstations, and Thin Clients. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  115 
Driven by HP s Design for Sustainability  
program and the pursuit of EPEAT 2019  
Gold, HP s engineers designed several  
improvements into the HP EliteBook x360  
1030 G3, HP Elite x2 1030 G3 Tablet and  
HP EliteDesk 800 G4 65W Desktop Mini  
PC. These improvements include using  
high-efficiency external power supplies  
and replacing specific chemicals of concern  
with safer alternatives. HP looked beyond  
the products to reduce the environmental  
footprint of our own operations and those  
of our suppliers, actions that also achieved  
optional EPEAT criteria. For example, HP  
worked with our top display panel and  
integrated circuit suppliers to reduce their  
GHG emissions. HP also achieved 95%  
renewable electricity use for seven key HP  
Personal Systems sites. 
See the complete and growing list of HP  
products registered under the updated  
EPEAT 2019 eco-label criteria at the gold and  
silver tiers. 
Leading on TCO certification  
We also became the first company with TCO- 
certified products across all our platforms,  
and we supported the development of the  
new TCO-certified for business notebooks  
and business desktops. Launched in  
December 2018, we were one of only four  
companies with products certified for this  
eighth-generation standard. See Product  
certifications and disclosures. 
Energy efficiency 
The ongoing transition to smaller personal  
systems products continues to reduce  
energy use and associated GHG emissions.  
Since 2010, the energy consumption of HP  
personal systems products dropped by  
44%, on average.1 Between 2011 and 2018,  
we reduced the annual energy consumption  
of HP EliteBook 840 or equivalent by 26%  
and HP EliteDesk 800 small form factor  
desktops by 42%. In 2018, 10 Elite Displays  
made the ENERGY STAR  most efficient  
list, and we successfully completed the  
transition to ENERGY STAR 7.1. This standard  
tightens the requirements for all notebooks,  
yet we were able to maintain ENERGY STAR  
certification for the majority of our portfolio.  
During the year, 100% of HP business  
desktops used high-efficiency (ECOVA 80 )  
internal power supplies.  
Desktops n a 49% 47% 
Notebooks n a 32% 34% 
Workstations n a 36% 34% 
Overall n a 25% 34% 43% 44% 
Reduction in energy  consumption of HP personal  systems products 
% decrease since 2010 
2010 2015 2016 2017 2018 
Dematerialization  and recycled content 
We have continued working to shift our  
portfolio toward more materials-efficient  
products. For example, we reduced the  
weight of our HP 800 G5 notebooks compared  
with the prior G4 series and moved from a  
magnesium aluminum plastic chassis to a  
primarily aluminum chassis to facilitate  
materials recycling and reuse, and to lower the  
product carbon footprint. Although materials  
use intensity in personal systems increased by  
5% in 2018 compared to the prior year, it has  
decreased 14% versus 2016. 
We are also working to increase the use of  
postconsumer recycled (PCR) plastic in our  
personal systems portfolio. As one example,  
our HP 400 G5 G6 ProBook series, launched  
in November 2018, has more than 10% PCR  
plastic compared with no recycled plastic  
content in the prior generation. HP Elite  
displays, which meet criteria for TCO Edge  
certification, contain around 85% PCR plastic  
content.2 During 2018, more than 15% of the  
Durability and  repairability 
We design our products to be highly  
durable and easy to repair, and we extend  
the life of our personal systems through  
total plastic that HP shipped in its personal  
systems products was postconsumer  
recycled content, equivalent to 8,360 tonnes.  
Our business PCs and displays include 24%  
recycled plastic content, on average.3  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
Following our HP EliteOne 1000 G1 in 2017  
our most serviceable AiO4 our HP EliteOne  
refurbishment programs. This benefits  
customers while capturing more value  
from natural resources and reducing  
environmental footprint. We test the quality  
and durability of our Pro and Elite business  
notebooks, Elite business desktops and  
all-in-ones, and select thin clients using  
the rigorous MIL-STD-810G standard. For  
further details, see our technical white  
paper, Testing the business ruggedness and  
reliability of HP Business PCs.  
Several HP products have received high  
scores from the iFixit product repair site,  
including the following:  
Device as a Service 
Our expanding personal systems Device  
as a Service (DaaS) offering provides  
customers the latest HP technology while  
improving cost predictability and enhancing  
productivity. Business customers can upgrade  
their products to the latest and most efficient  
1000 G2 Base Desktop PC is our first desktop  
with an upgradeable PC base and display.  
This enables customers to upgrade and  
reconfigure flexibly by keeping their display  
from the G1 series. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  116 
  In 2018, we launched the HP Elite x2 1013  
  In early 2018, the EliteBook 800 G5  
G3, an EPEAT  Gold tablet with an iFixit  
repairability rating of 9 out of 10.  
Business Notebook series received a 10  
out of 10 iFixit repairability score. 
models, while avoiding the up-front costs  
of purchasing. In 2019, we completed a  
preliminary LCA comparing HP s DaaS  
offering for commercial PCs with traditional  
transactional sales offerings. Learn more. 
Life cycle management 
When HP products reach end of use, we offer  
a range of options for enterprise customers  
and consumers to properly return, renew,  
refurbish, or recycle products and materials.  
Through these activities, we are helping  
to grow the supply chain and market for  
recycled materials and make progress  
toward a circular economy business model. 
HP s Recover and Renew Services are a key  
element of life cycle management, providing  
comprehensive solutions to securely  
recover, repurpose, or recycle our business  
customers  HP or non-HP devices when they  
reach end of use. 
  HP Device Recovery Services: Securely  
  HP Recycling Services: Enabling a smooth  
transition to new devices while adhering  
retiring, collecting, and responsibly  
processing end-of-use devices enables  
recovery and reuse of as much material as  
possible, giving the device a new purpose,  
extending its lifespan, and reducing  
negative environmental impact. Customers  
receive residual value, a certificate of  
data sanitization, a report detailing the  
environmental benefits, and peace of mind  
that relevant requirements and regulations  
governing disposal have been met. 
HP education products support our goal  to deliver better learning outcomes for  students, schools, and communities  worldwide. Our HP Education Edition  devices are built for the classroom,  endure rigorous durability testing, and  meet strict battery life requirements. See  Global education programs.  
Building on the industry s most complete  
portfolio of innovative printing solutions, HP  
is capitalizing on digital trends that will make  
print even more sustainable, accessible,  
relevant, and personal. From home and  
office to commercial and industrial graphics  
printing, HP is creating the products,  
services, and solutions that will define the  
Through our closed-loop recycling program  
for hardware, customers can return used  
electronic products to any one of about  
1,000 Best Buy stores in the United States.  
Learn more. 
See additional examples of Eco Solutions  
personal systems products. 
  HP Sanitization Services: Ensuring  
to customer policies for device end-of- 
use management and supporting social  
initiatives and environmental directives.  
confidential data is secured and erased,  
or the storage media is destroyed, before  
removing or recycling customers  old devices.  
focus on consumer printing. In addition, our  
Print business is concentrating its current  
circular economy efforts on increasing the  
use of recycled content, in line with our goal  
to use 30% postconsumer recycled content  
plastic across HP s personal systems  
and print product portfolio by 2025.6 We  
are also accelerating the transition to  
more sustainable fiber-based packaging,  
already deployed in several of our products  
including HP Tango printers.  
print experiences of tomorrow. Sustainable  
Impact is at the heart of our innovation,  
creating new possibilities for our customers  
and supporting the drive toward greater  
energy efficiency, lower carbon footprint,  
and reduced waste. 
Vision for a forest positive future 
In March 2019, HP announced its bold vision  
for print sustainability pledging to make  
printing with HP forest positive, carbon  
neutral, and part of a circular economy.  
Our Forest Positive Framework5 will initially  
Home and office  printing solutions 
As the global leader in home and office  
printing, we continue to redefine the  
marketplace, delivering next generation  
solutions and service-based models that  
meet and anticipate customers  needs.  
For the home and office user, HP offers a  
powerful range of home and office printing  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
increased the recycled content plastic in  
some HP ENVY photo printer models to  
products and solutions. Across our portfolio,  
we continue to deliver innovations to improve  
performance while reducing use of plastic,  
other materials, and energy. We responsibly  
source the paper we sell and design printing  
and software to optimize paper use, including  
through duplexing technologies. 
We are making significant investments  
to increase recycled plastic resin in our  
products and used 4,790 tonnes in our home  
and office printer fleet in 2018, about 3.8  
times the amount the prior year. Between  
2017 and 2018, we reduced materials  
use intensity in our printers by 12%. See  
Materials innovation. 
HP is a leader in eco-label-certified home  
and office printing products. See product  
certifications and disclosures.  
Product innovation 
HP ENVY photo printers: The world s first  in-class printers made with closed-loop  recycled plastic 
HP ENVY 6200, 7100, and 7800 are the  
world s first in-class printers made from  
recycled printers and other electronics    
more than 10% by weight.7 In 2018, we  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  117 
In 2018, we completed or updated 22  
life cycle assessments of HP desktop  
and enterprise printers. These help us to  
understand the environmental impacts of  
our products and solutions and inform our  
sustainable design decisions. 
20 30% by weight. We also increased the  
amount of recycled plastic in HP Envy 6255  
Photo Printer sold at Best Buy to more than  
30% by weight.  
HP Tango: A smart, more sustainable  home printer 
In 2018, we launched the HP Tango, an  
interconnected and interoperable voice  
activated printer. Designed with recyclability  
in mind, we have minimized the number  
of materials and made it easy to separate  
dissimilar substances. High-priority parts are  
simple to disassemble and repair. The printer  
is made with more than 30% closed-loop  
recycled plastic by weight using plastic from  
recycled printers and other electronics, and  
its Original HP cartridges include 48 73%  
recycled plastic. HP Tango is ENERGY STAR   
and EPEAT  Gold certified. HP Tango uses  
recycled molded pulp packaging cushions  
and high recycled-content corrugated  
cartons, reducing plastic foam use by an  
estimated 22 tonnes in 2018 2019. This  
demonstrates our ongoing shift toward  
more sustainable fiber-based packaging in  
HP personal systems and print products. 
HP A3 PageWide: Best-in-class energy  performance  
HP A3 PageWide printers and multifunction  
printers use up to 70% less energy8 than  
comparable laser printers and reduce  
carbon footprint by up to 45%.9 By using  
HP Original PageWide cartridges, they also  
use up to 77% less materials from supplies  
and packaging per printed page.10 Many  
A3 PageWide products are EPEAT Gold  
registered and all contain at least 6% and up  
to 10% recycled plastic content. In 2018, HP  
introduced additional A3 printers, bringing  
these benefits to a broader set of customers.  
We design our products to be sensitive to our  
customers  working environments. To satisfy  
demanding particle requirements that our  
customers might have, we commissioned  
additional, independent cleanroom testing  
based on the ISO 14644-14:2016 standard.  
The testing was designed to determine  
whether the printer contributes to particle  
contamination in environments with rigorous  
cleanliness standards. HP A3 PageWide  
printers meet at least the standard for ISO  
Class 7.0 cleanrooms, when operated with  
Original HP cartridges. 
See additional examples of Eco Solutions  
printing products. 
Product-as-a-service  
Our product-as-a-service printing solutions  
provide customers with the up-to-date  
technology they need, when they need it. At  
the same time, this business model helps  
keep products, components, and materials  
operating at a high level for as long as possible. 
HP Managed Print Services (MPS) helps  
clients manage and optimize their printer  
fleets and digital workflows, by combining  
hardware, supplies, software, and consulting  
and management services. By servicing and  
maintaining printer fleets, and refurbishing  
and redeploying units as feasible, we  
Innovation in product delivery also improves  
environmental performance. HP Instant Ink  
helps home users and microbusinesses in  
18 countries remain productive by ensuring  
they never run out of ink.12 The service  
keep printing equipment in use for longer.  
Preparation for remarketing includes testing  
and secure data cleansing, while non- 
functional equipment is recycled responsibly  
in accordance with HP policies.  
HP print cartridges  
HP designs its products and services to help  
customers reduce materials use. Our focus  
on larger supplies yield, our continuous ink  
supply system (CISS), and HP Instant Ink all  
decrease the amount of printer cartridge  
material used per page printed and help  
customers be productive with a lower  
environmental footprint.   
HP s groundbreaking closed-loop recycling  
program uses plastic from recycled Original HP  
cartridges (plus recycled bottles and hangers  
for ink cartridges) to create new Original HP  
cartridges.11 See Closing the loop on plastics.  
of ink purchase and disposal by 84%,  
reducing energy use by 86%, and lowering  
water usage by 89%.14  
anticipates when ink is running low and  
sends replenishments and new recycling  
envelopes straight to our customers  doors.  
In addition to the benefit of convenience, our  
customers also save money up to 50% on  
ink13 while decreasing the carbon footprint  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
cartridges can be recycled responsibly  
through the HP Planet Partners program  
and are backed by HP s rigorous and  
Original HP toner cartridges: A more  responsible choice than imitation cartridges  
Original HP toner cartridges provide  
environmental advantages over imitation  
cartridges.15 They meet relevant EPEAT   
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  118 
lower GHG emissions.18 In addition, HP  
and Blue Angel guidelines on air emissions,  
and help protect indoor air quality as part of  
a certified printing system, requiring fewer  
reprints16 and service calls,17 and producing  
Circular economy  leadership 
HP has been recognized by the  
Sustainable Purchasing Leadership  
Council for an initiative to facilitate  
circular economy principles in EU  
public sector procurement.  
HP developed easy-to-use key  
procurement criteria that create a  
level playing field for all legal printer  
cartridges and that are verifiable  
using international standards and  
eco-labels. The recommended  
criteria cover compliance   
environmental, health, and safety   
and quality and reliability. 
    https:  echa.europa.eu substance-information - substanceinfo 100.002.592, https:  www.eea.europa.eu signals  signals-2013 articles indoor-air-quality, https:  www.epa.gov indoor-air-quality-iaq introduction-indoor-air-quality 
    Dec 2017 WKI Blue Angel Indoor Air Quality compliance study, commissioned by HP. The study tested New Build Compatible  toner cartridge brands sold as substitutes for HP LaserJet Pro MFP M425dn with cartridge 280A. The tests were carried out  in compliance with Blue Angel labeling of office equipment in accordance with RAL-UZ-205P. For details, see http:  h20195. www2.hp.com v2 getpdf.aspx 4AA7-1981ENW.pdf. 
transparent sustainability program, whereas  
manufacturers of imitation cartridges don t  
offer convenient recycling programs.  
Three independent studies we commissioned  
were published in December 2017 (the first  
bullet) and 2018 (the other two bullets): 
  One study outlined indoor air quality  
  The second study found that imitation  
Imitation cartridges emit  
HP cartridges produce results below indoor air quality limits  
advantages of Original HP toner  
cartridges compared to imitation  
cartridges (see graphic).19  
cartridges had a larger environmental  
Imitation cartridges failed relevant indoor air quality (IAQ) tests and may  contribute to poor indoor air quality  and potential negative effects   
up to 53% over allowed limits  of styrene 
Styrene Particles Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 
  The third study concluded that up to  
97% of all imitation cartridges will go  
to municipal waste rather than being  
recycled, due to a lack of manufacturer  
recycling and remanufacturing processes.21 
impact than Original HP toner cartridges  
in all study areas over their lifetime,  
including 40% more energy usage, 54%  
more fossil fuels consumed, and a 55%  
larger carbon footprint.20  
up to 60% over allowed limits  of particles 
up to 130% over allowed limits  of VOCs 
Commercial and  industrial graphics  printing solutions 
For commercial and industrial customers,  
HP s printing technology is designed for  
sustainability, quality, workplace safety,  
and cost. The shift from analog to digital  
production in the printing, publishing,  
packaging, and labeling sectors presents  
opportunities to reduce waste due to the  
elimination of printing plates, make-readies,  
and intensive cleaning cycles associated  
with analog printing. Additionally, more  
agile and on-demand printing, with cost- 
efficient short runs, also reduces inventory  
waste, which enables companies to engage  
with consumers in new and exciting ways,  
including through customized and quicker-to- 
market printed products. Throughout the last  
two decades, HP has continually extended  
the benefits of this transformation into new  
industries and applications (see graphic on  
next page). 
We offer one of the most complete portfolios  
of commercial and industrial print and  
imaging technologies, supported by the  
industry s best security, workflow, mobility,  
and fleet management solutions. Our  
service-based offerings and comprehensive  
repair, reuse, recycling, and end-of-service  
solutions enable customers to deliver more  
sustainable results and drive progress  
toward a circular economy.  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
...and creating benefits across the printing value chain 
Design for Sustainability  
Water-based inks 
Water-based inks offer a range of benefits,  
particularly when designed with  
sustainability in mind. Positive features  
include low odor, easy handling and cleanup,  
use of prioritized, lower hazard materials,  
and, for specific inks, suitability for sensitive  
applications such as food packaging, signage  
in restaurants or schools, and children s  
books. Developing new inks with lower  
hazard components provides a better  
solution for printer operators, end customers,  
and the environment. We continue to invest   
in water-based technologies to extend the  
range of printing applications, including in  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  119 
  Employee operator safety   Less waste and air emissions Printing service providers 
Driving the analog-to-digital shift in commercial printing and  the transformation to water-based inks 
Latex (signage) 
Food contact materials (packaging, product identification) Textiles 
  Safety   Sustainable printing and packaging 
  Safe uses: HP expertise   Sustainability and regulatory support, e.g, eco-labels    Supply chain safety and transparency 
areas that have traditionally required more  
hazardous materials. In April 2019, we  
announced our HP Stitch textile printer series,  
our water-based digital textiles solution. 
In 2017 and 2018, we introduced PageWide  
true water-based inks for corrugated  
packaging applications, in compliance with  
leading food safety standards. In addition  
to primary and secondary food packaging,  
these inks are also used for other types of  
product packaging, including cosmetics and  
personal care, infant care, and toys. 
During 2018, we also launched the  
new generation of HP Latex inks, which  
extends the benefits of water-based  
inks to rigid applications. This market,  
traditionally dominated by UV ink, now has  
a better alternative not reliant on reactive  
chemistries. 
Clean colorant technology 
For more than 20 years and as part of HP s  
long-standing Design for Sustainability  
program, HP has gone beyond legal  
requirements to define and apply our own  
strict safety criteria to ink formulations.  
One priority area is ongoing research and  
development on colorants. This is an increasing  
focus among eco-labels and brands, due to  
associated health and safety considerations.  
Safety compliance in sensitive applications 
As a leader in printing solutions and inks, we  
enable customers that use our PageWide  
Industrial and Indigo Presses and Specialty  
Printing Systems products to deliver robust  
safety compliance and transparency  
in sensitive applications such as food  
packaging, signage, and decoration. Across  
our graphics printing solutions business, we  
provide HP customers with summaries of  
regulatory compliance and environmental  
attributes. These cover dimensions such  
as chemical inventory status, regulated  
materials, emissions, human and ecological  
health, transportation, waste, de-inkability,  
suitability for special applications (such as  
food packaging), and recyclability.  
EH S leadership for print  service providers and brands 
Our printing presses offer significant  
benefits to print service providers and their  
workers. Based on a recent internal study,  
HP s digital water-based presses showed  
significant reductions in waste, water use,  
and air emissions when compared to analog  
printing presses (including flexographic,  
lithographic, and rotogravure technologies).  
Our low emission, water-based ink  
chemistries decrease the chance for worker  
exposure to potentially harmful substances.  
Automated color calibrations, minimal  
mechanical interaction, and minimal  
cleaning can also contribute to improved  
worker health and safety.  
In 2018, we tested the HP T1100 Web Press  
to EPA Method 25A for total volatile organic  
compound (VOC) air emissions. The test  
confirmed low VOC emissions from our water- 
based inks and demonstrated compliance  
with California Best Available Control  
Technology requirements. 
Compostable, recyclable  printing solutions 
Most inks are not biodegradable or  
compostable, but this is increasingly  
important in order to meet growing demand  
for compostable packaging. As part of HP s  
testing and certification program, HP Indigo  
ElectroInk underwent chemical analysis and  
plant toxicity tests and has been independently  
certified as compostable in conformance  
with the EN 13432 standard. In 2018,  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
Papiertechnische Stiftung (PTS) of Germany  
verified that corrugated packaging printed with  
our PageWide true water-based inks is easily  
recyclable using standard industry technology. 
Product certifications and  brand guidance 
To demonstrate strong health, safety, and  
environmental performance, we design our  
presses and inks to qualify for a range of eco- 
labels. UL ECOLOGO , which covers a broad  
range of dimensions, relates to water-based  
inks. GREENGUARD GOLD relates to Latex inks  
and specific applications such as wallpaper.  
Oeko-Tex certifies strong performance in  
textiles printing. Relevant HP products qualify  
for each of these certifications. 
HP product stewards work directly with  
our commercial customers in sectors such  
as apparel, food, and consumer products,  
to understand and meet the demands  
of their industries and help improve the  
sustainability performance of their brands.  
For example, our new textiles ink has been  
tested to and proven compliant with the Nike  
Restricted Substances List for health and  
environment and our food contact materials  
comply with the Nestl  guidelines. 
3D printing 
HP s 3D printing (also known as  additive  
manufacturing ) technology has the  
potential to transform how entire industries  
design, make, distribute, use, repair, and  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  120 
our printers also offer potential for recycling  
of printed parts as the technology scales.  
Supporting progress toward closed- 
loop systems, we are working with  
in which people can turn ideas into finished  
products in a more efficient, economical, and  
environmentally responsible way.  
In 2018, HP launched the Multi Jet Fusion 3D  
500 300 series, its newest generation of 3D  
printers. These integrate material mixing and  
loading, printing, and reclaiming material  
in one machine, which makes it ideal for  
small medium-sized product development  
teams, design firms, and universities. These  
products complement the company s  
industrial-scale printers, which are used for  
prototyping and final part production. 
HP is also collaborating with production  
service partners to provide customers with  
3D printed stainless steel parts, using the HP  
Metal Jet printer. The technology, announced  
in 2018, provides up to 50 times more  
productivity22 at a significantly lower cost23  
reuse products. This transformation will  
drive progress toward a more sustainable  
and inclusive Fourth Industrial Revolution,  
Materials innovation 
HP Jet Fusion 3D printers enable industry- 
leading surplus material reusability of up to  
80%.24 The thermoplastic materials used in  
than other 3D printing methods. The Metal  
Jet Production Service will begin fulfilling  
production-grade orders in 2019. 
early customers to develop and prove  
the capability to economically recover  
and recycle scrap 3D printed parts from  
customers into materials for injection  
molding. This complements our HP Planet  
Partners program which offers free recycling  
of 3D print cartridges.25 
One of our newest 3D printing materials  
(PA11), launched in 2018, is a 100% bio- 
based content polymer derived from non- 
GMO castor bean oil. A 2017 ISO14040 44- 
compliant LCA demonstrated that parts  
made with PA11 had a 28% lower carbon  
footprint compared with other polymers. 
Reducing GHG  emissions and waste 
Compared to traditional manufacturing,  
3D printing can drive lower GHG emissions  
and waste throughout the product life  
cycle. HP commissioned an independent,  
ISO-compliant, peer-reviewed life cycle  
assessment in 2017 that compared the  
Healthcare innovation 
Production volumes for items such as medical devices and prosthetics are low,  
making them expensive to manufacture in traditional ways. 3D printing makes it  
economically viable to create highly personalized parts in small quantities. 
iOrthotics, based in Australia, was the first orthotics manufacturer to completely  
transition from polypropylene milling to 3D printing. This faster method for making  
customized orthotic devices that are significantly stronger reduces waste per unit by  
about 90% compared to the previous process. 
impacts of manufacturing a plastic auto part  
using HP Jet Fusion 3D printing compared to  
injection molding. The study found that Jet  
Fusion reduces GHG emissions and resource  
consumption per unit at volumes up to 1,500  
parts for one type of plastic and up to 5,200  
parts for another. This is due to avoiding the  
need to produce molds as well as the ability  
to create more materials-efficient designs,  
such as honeycomb structures, which can  
only be realized with additive manufacturing.  
These parts also demonstrate the potential  
value of reducing GHG emissions over a car s  
lifetime through light weighting. 
More comfortable  workplace 
In a recent HP assessment, our Multi Jet  
Fusion technology performed in the top level  
in eight of nine health and environmental  
dimensions and better overall than specific  
3D printing systems in the other 3D printing  
technologies assessed.26 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
transformative potential of 3D printing. 
HP Multi Jet Fusion technology supports a  
more comfortable workplace through an  
enclosed printing system and automatic  
materials management.27 
HP is a leader in air emissions testing and  
exposure assessments for 3D printing  
systems, which we design to meet stringent  
indoor and outdoor air quality standards. 
For example: 
Inclusive and  sustainable Fourth  Industrial Revolution 
A distributed manufacturing model will  
enable economically viable production at  
a smaller scale, lowering barriers to entry  
and encouraging new business growth. 3D  
printing also enables other innovations and  
applications such as critical infrastructure  
repair. See our white paper on the  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  121 
  HP Jet Fusion printers complete third- 
  All materials considered for use in the  
  Individual VOC emissions levels measured  
party air emissions testing  results have  
shown that VOCs, aldehydes, and coarse,  
fine, and ultrafine particles were well  
below occupational exposure limits (OELs). 
printing process are pre-screened to  
identify formulation components that  
may be substances of concern regarding  
airborne exposure.   
during printing are typically one to two  
orders of magnitude lower than the  
relevant OELs. 
Investments in educational and job-skilling  
programs will be essential to prepare for  
the radical shift in job requirements in this  
new digital industrial economy. In 2018, HP  
launched the HP-NTU Digital Manufacturing  
Corporate Lab in Singapore in partnership  
Global education  programs 
Access to a quality education is a fundamental  
human right. This belief is at the core of our  
global education programs and solutions,  
which emphasize access for all and deliver  
educational opportunities to girls, women,  
and some of the world s most vulnerable and  
marginalized communities. Whether learning  
takes place in school, on campus, outside  
of the classroom, or at work, technology is  
essential to providing equitable access to  
education and preparing people with critical  
skills needed for the future. 
with Nanyang Technological University,  
Singapore (NTU Singapore), and the National  
Research Foundation (NRF) in Singapore. The  
Lab aims to drive innovation, technology,  
skills, and economic development critical for  
the advancement of the Fourth Industrial  
Revolution. In 2018, HP LIFE also launched  
a 3D printing course module, to help  
empower entrepreneurs to build businesses  
and pursue careers related to this new  
technology.  
HP is creating conditions for better learning  
outcomes for all people, to advance  
inclusion, foster equity and equality, and  
accelerate economic opportunity. Our  
programs and initiatives are either funded by  
our business groups or the HP Foundation. 
Campus of the Future 
HP s Campus of the Future framework  
creates vibrant, secure environments  
for teaching, learning, research, and  
collaboration. As part of this initiative,  
announced in 2018, HP is working with  
more than 20 elite colleges and universities,  
providing cutting-edge technologies  
alongside financial and technical support.  
These collaborations are exploring the  
types and uses of 3D printing (additive  
manufacturing), virtual reality (VR), and  
augmented reality (AR) to identify those  
technologies with the greatest potential for  
teaching, learning, and research. Innovations  
our goal Enable better learning outcomes  for 100 million people by 2025,  since the beginning of 2015 
progress through 2018  21 million  
students and adult learners have benefited  from HP s education programs and  solutions that advance quality learning and  digital literacy, and enable better learning  outcomes since the beginning of 2015 
For more information, see Learning in Three  
Dimensions: Report on the EDUCAUSE HP  
Campus of the Future Project. 
during the year included:  
  Yale University: HP technology powered  
  Harvard University: Using AR headsets  
  Case Western University: Professors used  
  Rice University: Through OpenStax, a  
AR VR technologies to augment traditional  
anatomy teaching. Students who used 3D  
simulations learned the course material in  
60% of the time compared with students  
who used cadavers.   
nonprofit educational initiative based at  
the university, we have announced plans to  
create an open source textbook on additive  
manufacturing to help prepare workers for  
the Fourth Industrial Revolution.  
provided by HP, faculty reinvented how  
they teach students about magnetic fields  
and electricity, creating an immersive  
experience that enables students to  
see segments of the electromagnetic  
spectrum outside the visible range. 
the university-wide Yale Blended  
Reality program, helping to transform  
a diverse range of disciplines, from  
comparative literature to physics.  
Professors and students leveraged new  
capabilities afforded by HP technology  
to remove barriers to learning, open  
creative possibilities, improve student  
engagement, and reduce costs. See the  
Blended Reality report. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
Classroom of the Future 
An estimated 65% of students in today s  
primary schools will work in jobs that don t  
yet exist. We are reinventing the classroom  
in ways that engage students and empower  
educators to prepare for the future.  
This includes driving innovative, experiential  
learning with HP Learning Studios at more  
than 100 schools in 2018 across North  
America, Europe, the Middle East, Australia,  
and New Zealand. We are also working with  
schools on AR and VR, opening the door  
to immersive, project-based learning that  
enables students to use essential tools of  
the future. 
We also offer tools and technologies that  
boost teachers  vital contributions. Every  
Windows 10-based HP Education Edition PC  
ships pre-loaded with HP Classroom Manager.  
Through one console, teachers can cultivate a  
collaborative learning environment, monitor  
student activities, and evaluate progress in  
real time. With co-molded industrial rubber,  
pick-proof keys, and other rugged features,  
these PCs are built to last in the classroom  
and tested in a laboratory environment that  
simulates a school setting. 
HP shipped more than 5 million PCs to  
schools in 2018, reaching a cumulative total  
of about 20 million.  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  122 
HP School Cloud 
HP School Cloud is a hybrid cloud appliance  
enabling students and teachers in rural,  
poor, and marginalized communities to  
access free, high-quality open source  
educational resources even without an  
Internet connection. Featuring the HP Open  
Learning Platform and in partnership with  
OpenStax, HP School Cloud provides access  
to millions of e-textbooks and thousands of  
lessons on reading, science, mathematics,  
and more. Resources are intended to align  
with international curricular and instructional  
standards from UNESCO, OECD, and others. HP  
aims to reach 1 million learners by 2025.  
HP also collaborates with Learning  
Equality to create affordable and accessible  
educational solutions for schools that  
combine hardware and a learning  
management system based on free and  
open source applications.  
HP National Education  Technology Assessment  (NETA) 
Through NETA, HP Education helps  
ensure that schools teach the skills that  
employers need. Using a combination  
of macroeconomic analysis, hyper-local  
insights, and predictive analytics, HP  
supports governments and policymakers  
around the world to create education  
technology programs that generate  
meaningful outcomes. 
Technology-enabled  education for refugees  and displaced  populations 
For people who have been uprooted and  
their educations and careers put on hold,  
learning provides vital continuity and  
opportunity. Working with the United Nations  
High Commissioner for Refugees and other  
partners, we have established three new  
HP Learning Studios in the Middle East  
focused on enabling refugee youths to learn  
in-demand skills to enhance employment  
opportunities. We are planning to create  
three more HP Learning Studios in the region  
by 2020. See Local impact.  
HP LIFE (Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs),  
a program of the HP Foundation, provides  
free, anytime access to quality skills training  
to start or grow a business. HP LIFE offers 30  
online courses in seven languages and has  
reached nearly 750,000 people since 2012.  
See Community giving and volunteerism. 
HP World on Wheels  mobile learning labs 
In India, HP is bringing self-contained,  
Internet-enabled, solar-powered mobile  
learning labs to rural areas of the country.  
HP World on Wheels (WOW) supports digital  
literacy, education, entrepreneurship, and  
citizen services, aiming to provide access to  
more than 15 million people across 6,400  
Indian villages by 2022. Each 20-seat WOW  
vehicle is equipped with HP computing and  
printing equipment, as well as software  
and e-learning tools. Since the rollout of 12  
WOW vehicles in rural India during 2017, we  
have provided access to WOW resources to  
an estimated 2 million people across more  
than 900 villages.28 HP WOW complements  
Discover more about HP technologies to  advance learning. 
other HP initiatives including HP LIFE  
and HP Future Classroom to apply our  
technology to overcome power, space,  
infrastructure, and equipment challenges in  
rural communities. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
Product repair, reuse, and recycling 
When HP products reach end of service, our  
robust product repair, reuse, and recycling  
programs help to ensure that products and  
materials are repurposed, to keep materials  
at their highest value state for the longest  
possible time. These efforts are part of our  
wider ambitions to transform the business  
toward an ever more materials-efficient  
circular model.  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  123 
product recycling goal Recycle 1.2 million tonnes of hardware  and supplies by 2025, since the  beginning of 2016 
progress through 2018  Recycled 395,200 tonnes 
Closing the loop on plastics 
Through our industry-leading closed-loop plastic recycling  
program, HP is able to create new products from old ones.  
Through 2018, we manufactured over 4.2 billion HP ink and  
toner cartridges using more than a cumulative 107,000 tonnes  
of recycled plastic. This has kept 830 million HP cartridges  
and an estimated 101 million apparel hangers and 4.37 billion  
postconsumer plastic bottles out of landfill instead upcycling  
these materials for continued use. More than 80% of our Original  
HP ink cartridges contain 45 70% postconsumer recycled  
content, and 100% of Original HP toner cartridges1 contain  
5  45% postconsumer or post-industrial recycled content.  
In 2016, we expanded our closed-loop recycling program to  
include hardware. During 2017, we launched the HP ENVY 6200,  
7100, and 7800 Photo Printers, the world s first in-class printers  
made from recycled printers and other electronics more than  
10% by weight.2 In 2018, we increased the recycled content  
plastic in some HP ENVY photo printer models to 20 30% by  
weight. Launched in 2018, the HP Tango printer is made with  
more than 30% closed-loop recycled plastic by weight using  
plastic from recycled printers and other electronics, and its  
Original HP cartridges include 48 73% recycled plastic.  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
    The recycling rate is based on the weight of hardware products returned for recycling compared to the weight of our product sales from seven years ago (the estimated average lifespan of our products). It is impractical for HP to report the recycling rate by  product category, as materials are not typically sorted at collection points. This rate also does not include packaging recycling due to limited data available from recyclers. 
     On November 1, 2017, HP Inc. announced the completion of its acquisition of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. s printer business. 
Customer take-back programs 
HP provides take-back programs in 74 countries and territories worldwide3 through a global network of reuse and recycling vendors. These offerings vary by location. 
Program Description Progress in 2018 
    Descriptions of offerings in this table are as of report publication. Performance data is as of October 31, 2018. Availability of offerings varies by location. View full list of reuse and recycling programs by country. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  124 
Print cartridges, supplies, batteries, and packaging 
Repair,  remarketing,  and reuse 
Available in 64  countries and  territories 
Ink and toner   cartridge  recycling 
Available in 64  countries and  territories 
We also offer responsible processing for batteries and recycling for large-format media supplies, 3D printing supplies, and packaging.  
HP provides free and convenient ways to recycle used HP ink and toner cartridges and  Samsung toner cartridges.    
Our remanufacturing programs help to extend hardware lifespan, reducing environmental  impacts from disposal. 
We provide customers guidance about how to repair their own HP product.  See Durability and repairability. 
HP Recover and Renew Services provide customers data sanitization, remarketing, and  recycling for used personal systems products.  
HP recycles hardware that cannot be economically repaired or reused.  
We belong to compliance systems to comply with producer responsibility requirements of  the WEEE Directive and end-of-life legal obligations in countries across our Americas, Asia  Pacific and Japan, and Europe, Middle East, and Africa regions. 
Consumers, home office, and commercial users have various recycling options for used  equipment, including HP recycling vendors that provide take-back and recycling services or  free drop-off for our products in many countries. 
In the United States, customers can drop off hardware at Best Buy stores through our  closed-loop recycling program as well as Staples locations. U.S. customers can also use the  HP Consumer Buyback Program to exchange equipment for money or purchase credits.  
Home and commercial customers can return HP ink and toner cartridges for free to almost  18,000 authorized sites worldwide. Free pickup and mail-back options are available in most  countries.  
HP global take-back programs for customers  
Our Hardware Reuse Standard outlines our  requirements for vendors and subvendors who  provide reuse, refurbishment, or remarketing  services on behalf of HP.  
HP Recycling Services offers custom recycling  programs for commercial and enterprise  customers. 
Watch our video showing the recycling process. 
Recycling vendors must comply with the  Hardware Recycling Standard.  
HP s groundbreaking closed-loop recycling  program uses plastic from recycled Original HP  cartridges plus recycled bottles and hangers to  create new Original HP cartridges. 
See how we recycle ink cartridges. 
Recycling vendors must comply with the   HP Printing Supplies Recycling Policy. 
4.34 million units of hardware repaired  (20,900 tonnes) 1.25 million units of hardware  remarketed reused  (6,400 tonnes) 
117,100 tonnes of hardware recycled 17% overall recycling rate of relevant  HP hardware sales worldwide   92% of total volume of products and  materials taken back in 2018  that were reused or recycled  by HP, or by a third party 
15,300 tonnes of HP LaserJet toner  cartridges recycled 82% of materials recovered  used in other products,  and 0% went to landfill 
2,970  tonnes of plastic recovered for  use in other HP products 
1,400 tonnes of HP ink cartridges  recycled 75% of materials recovered  used in other products,  and 0% went to landfill 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
Product reuse  and recycling  vendors 
We work with a global network of vendors to  
provide product reuse and recycling services  
to customers around the world.  
During 2017, to promote transparency and  
drive social and environmental standards  
in the electronics industry supply chain, we  
published a detailed list of our global recycling  
vendor sites, an IT industry first. This reflects  
our confidence in HP s vendor network  
and addresses customer and stakeholder  
expectations about disclosure. We hope that  
our leadership in this area will encourage  
other IT companies to do the same. 
Vendor audits 
Our specialist reuse and recycling vendors  
are required to follow environmentally  
responsible processing techniques and  
comply fully with relevant regulations. In  
general, vendors must also attain third- 
party certification (R2, e-Stewards, or  
WEEELABEX). If a vendor is not certified, HP  
audits them directly. We also commission  
third-party audits to monitor vendor  
conformance with our high standards  
and ensure that returned items are  
processed appropriately. We contract with  
Environmental Resources Management  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  125 
Audits assess vendors  environmental,  
health, and safety practices and performance,  
and ensure there is no  leakage  of  
materials to facilities outside our approved  
vendor network. Vendors with identified  
nonconformances must submit corrective  
action plans within 30 days and address  
those items within 90 days. In extreme  
cases, we will cease business with vendors  
that lack sufficient transparency or are  
(ERM) to audit vendors for conformance with  
the following policies and vendor standards: 
unwilling to make the changes we require. 
Through ERM, HP audited 41 vendor  
facilities in 20 countries during 2018.  
This included repeat audits of 28 vendor  
facilities to evaluate their efforts to  
improve performance. Because 49% of  
major nonconformances occurred at sites  
audited for the first time, HP s engagement  
brought best practices, enabling immediate  
performance improvements. HP has  
closed investigations of 100% of the major  
nonconformances identified in 2018, and we  
will continue to work closely with vendors to  
resolve the others as swiftly as possible. All  
sites with major nonconformances must be  
re-audited the following year to determine  
whether improvements are sustained. 
  Export of Electronic Waste to Developing  
  HP Supplier Code of Conduct 
  Reuse and Recycling Standards 
Countries Policy 
   As of April 2019. 
    Includes site security and controls, data destruction, and  approved dispositions of processed materials. Findings  related to data destruction were limited gaps in processes,  not breaches of data security. 
Read a statement from ERM.  
8% Subvendor use and audits 
Initial audits 9 13 
Repeat audits 23 28 
Major nonconformances resolved  100% 100% 
Countries 15 20 
Major nonconformances identified 45 55 
11% Hazardous substance  emergency response  
11% Insurance 
Categories of major  nonconformance, 2018 
Reuse and recycling  vendor audits 
percentage of total 
 16%    Other   
36% Health and safety  
18% Environment  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
Product and solutions 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  126 
Product use GHG emissions intensity    [% reduction since 2015] Not applicable 2% 11% 11% 
Water consumption related to product  use [cubic meters] 153,700,000 156,300,000   180,600,000   195,000,000   
GHG emissions from product use  [tonnes CO2e] 19,100,000 19,300,000 22,100,000    23,400,000    
Desktop and enterprise printers  (energy)   30,500,000 31,100,000 20,000,000 18,000,000 
Printing consumables for  commercial and industrial graphics  printing solutions (paper)  
Printing consumables for  commercial and industrial graphics  printing solutions (paper and other  supplies) 
Printing consumables for 3D  printing solutions (resins) Not applicable Not applicable 170,000 170,000 
Commercial and industrial graphics  printing solutions (energy) Not available 2,200,000 3,000,000 2,400,000 
3D printing solutions (energy) Not applicable Not applicable 1,600,000 1,600,000 
Personal systems 9,100,000 8,200,000  8,300,000 9,400,000 
Personal systems 76,400,000 70,000,000 71,000,000 84,000,000 
3D printing solutions (energy) Not applicable Not applicable 180,000 180,000 
Printing consumables for desktop  and enterprise printers (paper and  ink toner cartridges)      
Commercial and industrial graphics  printing solutions (energy) Not available 250,000 350,000 270,000 
Printing consumables for desktop  and enterprise printers (paper)    46,800,000 45,800,000 73,000,000 75,000,000 
Desktop and enterprise printers  (energy)     3,600,000 3,600,000 2,400,000 2,000,000 
Not available 7,200,000 12,000,000 14,000,000 
Not available 790,000 1,300,000 1,500,000 
6,400,000 6,500,000  9,400,000 9,900,000 
2015 2016  2017 2018  
Estimated materials use intensity for HP high-volume personal systems and printers      [tonnes   millions of net revenue] 
Recycled plastic used in HP products [tonnes] 18,160   21,250 
Personal systems 
Printers Not available Not available Not available 1,260 4,790  
HP toner cartridges 3,300 2,437 3,493 2,921 2,746  
Personal systems Not available Not available Not available 8,080 8,360 
HP ink cartridges 6,286 6,282 5,517 5,901 5,354 
Metal 4.5 3.6 3.0 2.6 2.8 
Plastic 1.9 1.5 1.6 1.4 1.5 
Wires cables 0.8 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 
PCAs 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 
Total 9.4 7.7 7.7 6.3  6.6 
Batteries 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       
Total 44.8 48.4 53.9 51.3 45.2 
Wires cables 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.4 
PCAs 1.7 1.7 2.0 2.3 2.0 
Metal 14.7 15.4 17.6 17.0 14.8 
Batteries 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.0       0.0       
LCDs 1.4 1.2 1.8 1.3 1.4 
Plastic 28.0 30.9 33.8 31.6 28.0 
LCDs 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
     HP product GHG emissions intensity measures per unit GHG emissions during anticipated product lifetime use. These values  are then weighted by contribution of personal systems and printing products to overall revenue in the current year. These  emissions represent more than 99% of HP product units shipped each year, including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile  computing devices, workstations, displays, and digital signage  HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, Scitex, and Jet Fusion  3D printers  and scanners. 
      Greenhouse gas emissions from product use differ by less than 1% from the value reported on page 61, due to rounding. 
      Beginning in 2017, our LaserJet power usage data more accurately reflects typical idle and print energy. These changes were  not applied retroactively. Scope 3 emissions from inkjet and LaserJet printers that HP manufactures for sale and service by  other original equipment manufacturers is excluded from this data. In 2018, these printers represented less than 0.7% of  HP printers manufactured in the reporting year and consequently, their associated emissions represented less than 0.2% of  the product life cycle emissions of all HP manufactured printers. Scope 1 and 2 emissions from the manufacturing of these  printers at HP operated facilities is captured in the Scope 1 and 2 data reported in this year s report. 
    In some cases, segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 
     Data for 2017 and 2018 better reflect average laser printer paper usage. This represented the majority of the increase  compared to 2015 and 2016. The 2017 value has been restated compared to the data reported in the HP 2017 Sustainable  Impact Report, to improve comparability with 2018.   
Product repair, reuse, and recycling  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  127 
    Total water consumption related to product use differs by less than 1% from the value reported on page 62, due to rounding. 
Electronic equipment repaired [units] 5,050,000 4,600,000 4,340,000 
Electronic equipment returned before use and remarketed  [units] 1,250,000 1,270,000 1,250,000 
Total recycling of hardware and supplies [tonnes, approximate] 119,900 141,500 133,800 
Number of countries and territories with HP return and recycling  programs 73 74 74 
Total recycling, by region [tonnes] 
Total recycling, by type [tonnes] 
HP toner cartridge recycling 
Americas 48,800 61,100 55,200 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 59,200 64,100 62,900 
Hardware 102,800 125,200 117,100 
Asia Pacific and Japan 11,900 16,300 15,700 
HP ink cartridges    1,700 1,500 1,400 
Composition [%] 
HP LaserJet market covered by program [%] 92% 92% 91% 
HP toner cartridges    15,400 14,800 15,300 
Materials recycled into new products 80.9% 83.9% 82.1% 
Materials used for energy recovery 16.8% 13.2% 14.7% 
Reuse of components 2.3% 2.9% 2.9% 
2016 2017   2018 
    Hardware recycling data for 2017 and related totals have been updated to correct an overstatement in the HP 2017  Sustainable Impact Report. 
     Includes cartridges returned by customers only. 
    Totals include all hardware and supplies returned to HP for processing, with ultimate dispositions including recycling, energy  recovery, and, where no suitable alternatives exist, responsible disposal. HP LaserJet toner and ink cartridge recycling  data is for calendar year. The remaining data is based on the HP fiscal year. Although for HP print cartridges we report the  composition of recovered materials, we cannot provide this data for hardware because we do not have operational control  over all recycling processes and so do not have access to this information. In some cases, segments do not add up to total due  to rounding. Although we do not include data prior to 2016 in the Product repair, reuse, and recycling section, the vast majority  of product hardware recycling data, and all toner and ink cartridge recycling data, reported in past years was associated with  the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. Through 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company reported 1,497,500 tonnes of  cumulative computer hardware and supplies recycling combined.  
        Beginning in 2017, our LaserJet power usage data more accurately reflects typical idle and print energy. These changes  were not applied retroactively. Indirect water consumption from inkjet and LaserJet printers that HP manufactures for sale  and service by other original equipment manufacturers is excluded from this data. In 2018, these printers represented less  than 0.7% of HP printers manufactured in the reporting year and consequently, their associated indirect water consumption  during product use represented less than 0.7% of the product life cycle water consumption of all HP manufactured printers.  Water consumption from the manufacturing of these printers at HP operated facilities is captured in the direct water  consumption data reported in this year s report. 
       Data for 2017 and 2018 better reflect average laser printer paper usage. This represented the majority of the increase  compared to 2015 and 2016. The 2017 value has been restated compared to the data reported in the HP 2017 Sustainable  Impact Report, to improve comparability with 2018. 
        Personal systems and printer values are based on individual product data. Estimates for printer volumes do not include  graphic arts, industrial, web press printers, scanners, or ink or toner cartridges. Product data for personal systems is based  on calendar year for 2014-2015 and 2018, and fiscal year for 2016-2017. Product data for printers is based on calendar year  for 2014-2015 and fiscal year for 2016-2018. Net revenue data is based on HP s fiscal year. In some cases, segments do not  add up to total due to rounding.  
      This value is stated as 0.0 due to rounding. 
       This total was updated to correct a calculation error stated in the HP 2017 Sustainable Impact Report.  
      Total does not equal sum of segments due to rounding. 
HP ink cartridge recycling 
Composition [%] 
HP ink market covered by program [%] 91% 87% 89% 
Materials recovered for recycling 77.9% 73.9% 74.6% 
Materials used for energy recovery 21.6% 23.7% 23.7% 
Material in storage pending processing 0.4% 0.5% 0.7% 
Landfill 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 
Reuse of components 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 
Incineration 0.0% 1.8% 1.0% 
Landfill 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 
Incineration 0.0% 0.0% 0.3% 
Material in storage pending processing 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 
2016 2017   2018 
Executive summary Products and solutions Operations Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Footprint Sustainable Impact 
137 United Nations Sustainable                Development Goals index 
129 About this report 
131 Policies and standards 
132 Independent accountants  review report 
134 Material issues 
136 United Nations Global Compact index  
138 Global Reporting Initiative index 
143 Endnotes 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  128 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
About this report 
HP has reported yearly on its social and  
environmental progress since 2001.  
We provide in-depth information to  
stakeholders, including customers, industry  
analysts, socially responsible investors,  
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs),  
employees, sustainability specialists,  
governments, and others. 
To determine report contents, we consider: 
In addition to our Sustainable Impact Report,  
we report on our programs and progress on  
our Sustainable Impact website on an ongoing  
Reporting scope  and measures 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  129 
basis. Our past reports are available online. 
  Our materiality assessment 
  Input from executives and content  
  Input from external stakeholders 
  The broader sustainability context and trends 
  External standards and frameworks such  
  Global reporting trends and best practices 
  This report describes HP s Sustainable  
experts across HP 
as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  
Sustainability Reporting Standards, the  
United Nations (UN) Global Compact, and  
the UN Sustainable Development Goals  
Impact policies, programs, and goals. It  
Metrics and goals 
The metrics in this report are HP data,  
unless stated otherwise. Collecting data  
from hundreds of global sites is complex,  
and the process can vary by issue, business  
unit, function, and geography. As a result,  
company-wide metrics can be difficult  
to define and implement. We continue to  
standardize our measurement systems  
  All references to dollars are to U.S. dollars.  
  The information in this report is current  
  The performance data in this report  
  All references to years are to HP s fiscal  
   Tonnes  refers to metric tons. 
year, which ends October 31, 2018, unless  
stated otherwise.  
includes HP s performance data through  
FY2018 (which ended October 31, 2018),  
unless stated otherwise. 
as of the date of its initial publication. The  
report has not been updated to reflect  
any changes since that date, including  
any changes to HP s business or strategy.  
HP assumes no obligation and does not  
intend to update this report to reflect any  
such changes.   
covers 100% of HP s global business  
operations and or revenue, as of HP s  
most recently completed fiscal year,  
unless stated otherwise.  
and metrics. Data is rounded to reflect the  
appropriate level of certainty. 
Reporting performance beyond our  
immediate operations is also challenging. We  
must make assumptions when estimating  
Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions,  
product energy consumption and resulting  
GHG emissions, the percentage of HP  
products that are recycled, and other metrics.  
Where appropriate, we provide context for  
data to help readers understand limitations  
and draw appropriate conclusions. 
Forward-looking content reflects approaches,  
goals, and priorities established by the HP  
teams responsible for implementing them.  
These were set in consultation with internal,  
and in some cases external, stakeholders and  
consider leading corporate practices.  
Your comments and suggestions are  
important to us. Please provide any  
feedback on this report, our performance, or  
our website using our online form. 
External  verification 
Assurance demonstrates that information  
in this report describes our performance  
accurately and completely.  
In addition, the following data received  
external assurance this year:  
In 2018, HP engaged Ernst   Young LLP  
(EY) to perform an independent review  
of selected key performance indicators in  
our HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report.  
This process was conducted in accordance  
with attestation standards established by  
the American Institute of Certified Public  
Accountants. 
For a full listing of the indicators within  
the scope of EY s review, please see the  
Independent accountants  review report.  
  Product repair, reuse, and recycling:  
  Supply chain: HP participates in the  
Through ERM, HP audited 41 vendor  
facilities in 20 countries during 2018.  
This included repeat audits of 28 vendor  
facilities to evaluate their efforts to  
improve performance. Learn more in  
Product reuse and recycling vendors.  
Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)  
Validated Audit Program (VAP), which uses  
independent external auditors to audit  
our suppliers  social and environmental  
responsibility performance against HP  
Supplier Code of Conduct requirements.  
Learn more in Supply chain responsibility. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Forward-looking statements 
This report contains forward-looking statements that  involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If the risks  or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions  prove incorrect, the results of HP Inc. and its consolidated  subsidiaries ( HP ) may differ materially from those  expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements  and assumptions. All statements other than statements  of historical fact are statements that could be deemed  forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to,  any projections of net revenue, margins, expenses, effective  tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows,  benefit plan funding, deferred taxes, share repurchases,  foreign currency exchange rates or other financial items   any projections of the amount, timing or impact of cost  savings or restructuring and other charges  any statements  of the plans, strategies and objectives of management  for future operations, including, but not limited to, our  sustainability goals, the execution of restructuring plans  and any resulting cost savings, net revenue or profitability  improvements  any statements concerning the expected  development, performance, market share or competitive  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  130 
performance relating to products or services  any  statements regarding current or future macroeconomic  trends or events and the impact of those trends and events  on HP and its financial performance  any statements  regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes  any  statements of expectation or belief, including with respect  to the timing and expected benefits of acquisitions and  other business combination and investment transactions   and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the  foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include  the need to address the many challenges facing HP s  businesses  the competitive pressures faced by HP s  businesses  risks associated with executing HP s strategy   the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends  and events  the need to manage third-party suppliers and  the distribution of HP s products and the delivery of HP s  services effectively  the protection of HP s intellectual  property assets, including intellectual property licensed  from third parties  risks associated with HP s international  operations  the development and transition of new products  and services and the enhancement of existing products and  
services to meet customer needs and respond to emerging  technological trends  the execution and performance  of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers, clients  and partners  the hiring and retention of key employees   integration and other risks associated with business  combination and investment transactions  the results of the  restructuring plans, including estimates and assumptions  related to the cost (including any possible disruption of HP s  business) and the anticipated benefits of the restructuring  plans  the impact of changes in tax laws, including  uncertainties related to expected regulations of the U.S.  Department of the Treasury implementing the Tax Cuts and  Jobs Act of 2017 on HP s tax obligations and effective tax  rate  the resolution of pending investigations, claims and  disputes  and other risks that are described or updated from  time to time in HP s filings with the Securities and Exchange  Commission. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend  to update these forward-looking statements. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Policies and standards 
Sustainable Impact 
Environment 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  131 
  HP Sustainable Impact and Human  
  Global Harassment-Free Work  
  Global Nondiscrimination Policy 
  Open Door Policy 
  Climate Action Policy Position 
  Environmental, Health, and Safety  
  Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy 
  Export of Electronic Waste to Developing  
  General Specification for the Environment  
  Hardware Reuse Standard 
  Materials and Chemical Management  
  Hardware Recycling Standard 
Rights Policy 
Environment Policy  
(EHS) Policy 
Countries Policy 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
Supply chain responsibility 
  Anti-corruption Policy  
  Contingent Worker Code of Conduct 
  Corporate Governance Guidelines 
  Global Business Amenities Policy 
  Integrity at HP 
  Partner Code of Conduct 
  U.S. Public Sector Code of Conduct 
  Privacy Statement 
  Student and Dispatch Worker Standard for  Supplier Facilities in the People s Republic  of China (PRC) 
  Supplier Code of Conduct 
  Supply Chain Foreign Migrant Worker  Standard 
  Supply Chain Social and Environmental  Responsibility Policy 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Independent accountants  review report 
To the Stockholders and the  Board of Directors of HP Inc. 
We have reviewed the Schedule of Select  
Sustainability Metrics (the  Subject Matter )  
included in Appendix A and as presented in  
the HP Inc. ( HP ) 2018 Sustainable Impact  
Report (the  Report ) for the year ended  
October 31,2018, unless otherwise stated,  
in accordance with HP s criteria set forth in  
Appendix A (the  Criteria ). We did not review  
all information included in the Report. We  
did not review the narrative sections of the  
Report, except where they incorporated  
the Subject Matter. HP s management is  
responsible for the Subject Matter included  
in Appendix A and as also presented in the  
Report, in accordance with the Criteria. Our  
responsibility is to express a conclusion on  
the Subject Matter based on our review. 
Our review was conducted in accordance  
with attestation standards established  
by the American Institute of Certified  
Public Accountants ((AICPA) AT-C section  
105, Concepts Common to All Attestation  
Engagements and AT-C section 210, Review  
Engagements). Those standards require  
that we plan and perform our review to  
obtain limited assurance about whether  
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  132 
any material modifications should be made  
to the Subject Matter in order for it to be  
in accordance with the Criteria. A review  
consists principally of applying analytical  
procedures, making inquiries of persons  
responsible for the Subject Matter, obtaining  
an understanding of the data management  
systems and processes used to generate,  
aggregate and report the Subject Matter and  
performing such other procedures as we  
considered necessary in the circumstances.  
A review is substantially less in scope than  
an examination, the objective of which is to  
obtain reasonable assurance about whether  
the Subject Matter is in accordance with the  
Criteria, in all material respects, in order  
to express an opinion. Accordingly, we do  
not express such an opinion. A review also  
does not provide assurance that we became  
aware of all significant matters that would  
be disclosed in an examination. We believe  
that our review provides a reasonable basis  
for our conclusion. 
In performing our review, we have also  
complied with the independence and other  
ethical requirements set forth in the Code  
of Professional Conduct and applied the  
Statements on Quality Control Standards  
established by the AICPA. 
As described in Note A, the Subject Matter  
is subject to measurement uncertainties  
resulting from limitations inherent in  
the nature and the methods used for  
determining such data. The selection of  
different but acceptable measurement  
techniques can result in materially different  
measurements. The precision of different  
measurement techniques may also vary. 
Based on our review, we are not aware of  
any material modifications that should be  
made to the Schedule of Select Sustainability  
Metrics included in Appendix A for the year  
ended October 31,2018, unless otherwise  
stated, in order for it to be in accordance with  
the relevant Criteria. 
May 23, 2019   
San Jose, CA  
Ernst   Young LLP  303 Almaden Blvd  San Jose, CA 95110  United States of America  Tel:  1 (408) 947-5500  ey.com 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Appendix A   HP Inc. (HP) Schedule of Select Sustainability Metrics 
Note A: Non-financial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data.  The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. 
1 All indicators are reported for the year ended October 31, 2018, except as otherwise indicated. 
2 To calculate GHG emissions, for all indicators we use the Global Warming Potentials (GWP) from the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) except for perfluorinated compounds (PFC),  where we use the GWP from the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4). 
3 Carbon Accounting Manual is available at http:  h20195.www2.hp.com V2 getpdf.aspx c05179524.pdf. 
4 Direct energy use refers to direct energy consumption in HP s operations including natural gas, renewable energy generated on-site and diesel oiI gas LPG, similar to the Scope 1 emissions  boundary. Transportation fleet, refrigerants and perfluorinated compounds are excluded from direct energy use, although they are included in the Scope 1 GHG emissions boundary. 
5 Indirect energy includes purchased electricity and steam and does not include renewable energy purchases. 
6 Direct water consumption for HP operations. 
7 Note that sewage treatment plant (STP) water is not included within the scope of water consumption.  
8 As noted in the disclosure, this indicator pertains to the calendar year 2018. 
9 The list of smelters and refiners is available at http:  www8.hp.com us en pdf sustainability conflictminerals.pdf page 12. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  133 
Scope 1 greenhouse gas  ( GHG ) emissions2 Global Tonnes of carbon dioxide  equivalents (tCO2e) 65,900 
Indicator name Scope Unit Reported value1  Criteria 
Scope 2 GHG emissions  (location-based method) Global tCO2e 252,300 
Conflict minerals disclosure8  Global N A - Qualitative assertion To identify and disclose the smelters and refiners9 in our  supply chain, between January and December 2018 HP  surveyed suppliers which contributed material, components,  or manufacturing for products containing 3TG. Each smelter  or refiner reported was identified in at least one of the RMI  Conflict Minerals Reporting Templates we received. 
Direct energy use in operations  (corresponds to Scope 1 emissions)4 Global MWh 164,075 GRI Standard 302 and HP management definitions disclosed in  the 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 
Indirect energy use (corresponds to  Scope 2 emissions)5 Global MWh 594,823 GRI Standard 302 and HP management definitions disclosed  in the 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 
Voluntary purchases of  renewable energy Global MWh 255,797 GRI Standard 302 and HP management definitions disclosed  in the 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 
Scope 2 GHG emissions  (market-based method) Global tCO2e 163,700 
Scope 3 GHG emissions Global tCO2e 44,470,000 WRl WBCSD s The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value  Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, GRI  Standard 305 and HP s Carbon Accounting Manual3  
Direct water consumption6  Global Cubic meters 3,406,000   GRI Standard 303 and HP management definitions disclosed  in the 2018 Sustainable Impact Report7 
HP management definitions disclosed in the 2018  Sustainable Impact Report 
World Resources Institute ( WRI )   World Business Council for  Sustainable Development s ( WBCSD ) The Greenhouse Gas  Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard,  Global Reporting Initiative ( GRI ) Standard 305 and HP s  Carbon Accounting Manual3 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Material issues 
The following table summarizes issues determined to meet the materiality threshold for this report. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  134 
Energy and GHG emissions Improving energy efficiency, using renewable energy, and reducing the GHG  emissions of HP s owned leased operations and of its supply chain, related to  facilities, transportation fleets, and product transportation and logistics. 
IT for sustainable  development Designing and delivering IT solutions that advance progress toward the United  Nations Sustainable Development Goals, related to health, education, decent  work, the environment, and more inclusive, just, and sustainable outcomes for  underserved and underrepresented individuals and communities everywhere. 
Paper and printed material Enabling more sustainable printing through the sourcing, use, and recycling of  paper and other printed materials by HP and its customers. Materials Supply chain 
Privacy Collecting, analyzing, using, storing, transferring, and sharing information  in ways that uphold the right to privacy and personal data protection  in commercial, government, and law enforcement relationships, and in  compliance with laws and standards. 
Product energy efficiency Increasing the energy efficiency of HP products and services, and enabling  customers to reduce their energy use. Energy Products and solutions Sustainable design: Energy efficiency 
Supply chain responsibility Monitoring and strengthening social conditions throughout HP's supply chain  (including working hours and conditions, wages and benefits, health and  safety, humane treatment of workers, avoiding slavery and forced labor, and  responsible minerals sourcing) through codes and standards, supplier and  worker engagement, and transparency. 
Medium importance to sustainable development, high importance to HP s business success 
Data and product security Designing products and processes that protect the collection, analysis,  use, storage, transfer, and sharing of information from unwanted parties,  unauthorized access, and security threats, including cyberattacks. 
Issue  Description GRI Standards topic(s) Topic boundary  Location in report 
High importance to sustainable development, high importance to HP s business success 
Circular economy Managing product life cycles through design criteria and business models  that promote product serviceability and longevity  enable usage as a service   increase recovery, reuse, recycling, recycled content, and closed material  loops  and dematerialize processes and activities through digitization. 
No GRI-specific Topics Products and solutions Community giving and volunteerism 
Customer Privacy HP operations (employees)   
Nondiscrimination 
Freedom of Association and  Collective Bargaining 
Child Labor 
Forced or Compulsory Labor 
Human Rights Assessment 
Supplier Environmental  Assessment 
Supplier Social Assessment 
No GRI-specific Topics Supply chain 
Materials Supply chain 
Supply chain (first- and second-tier  suppliers, Scope 3 emissions) 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
Products and solutions (customers and  partners) 
Supply chain (first- and second-tier  suppliers  sub-tier suppliers in high-risk  areas such as the Democratic Republic of  the Congo  there are multiple tiers between  HP and smelters that trade with exporters). 
We ask that first-tier suppliers  communicate our HP Supplier Code  of Conduct to their suppliers, thereby  propagating the requirements to our  sub-tier suppliers. 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
Circular economy 
Sustainable design 
Products and solutions portfolio 
Product repair, reuse, and recycling 
Supply chain responsibility: Environmental  impact: Greenhouse gas emissions 
Our facilities: Greenhouse gas emissions 
Sustainable design 
Products and solutions portfolio 
Global education programs 
Products and solutions portfolio 
Supply chain responsibility 
Human rights 
Cybersecurity 
Product security and privacy 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  135 
Ethics and anti-corruption Promoting high ethical standards and combating corruption in all of HP's  business interactions, including in joint ventures and with business partners,  suppliers, and distributors. 
Health and safety Working to create a healthy, safe, and secure working environment in our  supply chain, operations, and for our customers, including managing the  use of materials and substances of concern in the manufacturing and use  of our products. 
Transparency,  accountability, and reporting Providing clear, comparable, and accessible business and sustainability  information. Overall report Supply chain 
High importance to sustainable development, medium importance to HP s business success 
Waste Responsibly managing and disposing of nonhazardous and hazardous waste  in HP s supply chain and owned leased operations. Effluents and Waste Supply chain (first-tier suppliers) 
Water Conserving water in HP s supply chain and owned leased operations. Water Supply chain (first-tier suppliers) 
Medium importance to sustainable development, medium importance to HP s business success 
Corporate governance Maintaining the standards, structures, and processes to ensure the diversity  and independence of the Board of Directors, and the effective governance of  HP, including the company's Sustainable Impact strategy and programs. 
Intellectual property  protection Ensuring appropriate protection of HP s intellectual property. No GRI-specific Topics Supply chain 
Packaging Decreasing the environmental impact of HP packaging. Materials Supply chain 
Product transportation Decreasing the environmental impact of HP product transportation and  logistics. Emissions Supply chain Footprint 
Public policy Influencing public policy development through direct engagement, involvement  in multi-stakeholder associations or initiatives, and political contributions. Public Policy HP operations Government relations 
Diversity and inclusion Fostering diversity and inclusion within our workforce, supply chain, and  communities worldwide.  Diversity and Equal Opportunity Supply chain 
Anti-corruption Supply chain (interactions with suppliers,  business partners, and contractors) 
Occupational Health and Safety 
Customer Health and Safety 
No GRI-specific Topics HP operations Sustainable Impact: Governance 
HP operations 
Products and solutions (interactions with  business partners and customers) 
Supply chain 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
HP operations 
HP operations 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
Products and solutions 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
Supplier diversity 
Diversity and  inclusion 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
Supply chain responsibility: Health and safety 
Our employees: Health and safety 
Product safety 
Supply chain responsibility: Environmental  impact: Waste 
Our facilities: Waste 
Supply chain responsibility: Environmental  impact: Water 
Our facilities: Water 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
Governance 
HP 2019 Proxy Statement 
Government relations 
Investing in R D 
Product transportation 
 To promote higher standards across the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti- corruption, we endorse the United Nations Global Compact as a practical framework for the  development, implementation, and disclosure of sustainability policies and practices.   
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
United Nations Global Compact index 
HP is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a set of voluntary commitments for companies to improve human rights, labor conditions,  
the environment, and anti-corruption controls. This table links to the sections of this report that address the Global Compact s 10 principles. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  136 
Dion Weisler, President and Chief Executive Officer, HP Inc. 
Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights 
Labor standards 
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the  effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining  
Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor  Human rights 
Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor  and Human rights 
Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and  occupation. 
Principle Information in report 
Human rights 
Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of  internationally proclaimed human rights  and 
Human rights 
Supply chain responsibility 
Our employees 
Supply chain responsibility 
Human rights 
Supply chain responsibility 
Supply chain responsibility 
Supply chain responsibility 
Human rights 
Supply chain responsibility 
Diversity and inclusion 
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental  responsibility  and 
Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally  friendly technologies. 
Anti-corruption 
Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including  extortion and bribery. 
Principle Information in report 
Environment 
Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to  environmental challenges  
Sustainable design 
Supply chain responsibility:  Environmental impact 
Our facilities 
Sustainable design 
Products and solutions portfolio 
Supply chain responsibility:  Environmental impact 
Our facilities 
Sustainable design 
Products and solutions portfolio 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
Supply chain responsibility 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
United Nations Sustainable  Development Goals index 
HP supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We have existing programs that contribute to progress against 16 of the 17 goals  
and will continue to drive innovations that help achieve them. This table references sections of this report that relate to each goal. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  137 
HP s actions Supply chain responsibility,  Diversity and inclusion 
Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms  everywhere 
HP s actions Community giving and  volunteerism 
Goal 5 Achieve gender equality and  empower all women and girls 
HP s actions Circular economy, Fourth  Industrial Revolution, Products and  solutions portfolio 
Goal 9 Build resilient infrastructure,  promote sustainable industrialization  and foster innovation 
Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat  climate change and its impacts 
HP s actions Footprint, Supply chain  responsibility: Environmental impact:  GHG emissions, Our facilities: GHG  emissions 
Goal 17 Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development 
HP s actions HP supports the UN SDGs, the UN Global Compact, the Global Reporting Initiative,  and other global efforts to advance sustainable development. 
Goal 2 End hunger, achieve food security  and improved nutrition and promote  sustainable agriculture 
HP s actions No major programs at this  time 
Goal 6 Ensure access to water and  sanitation for all 
HP s actions Our facilities: Water, Supply  chain responsibility: Environmental  impact: Water 
Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and  among countries 
HP s actions Supplier diversity,  Community giving and volunteerism,  Global education programs 
Goal 14 Conserve and sustainably use  the oceans, seas and marine resource 
HP s actions Closing the loop on plastics 
Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote  well-being for all at all ages 
HP s actions Supply chain responsibility:  Health and safety, Our employees:  Health and safety, Wellbeing 
Goal 7 Ensure access to affordable,  reliable, sustainable and modern energy  for all 
HP s actions Renewable energy,  Products and solutions: Energy efficiency 
Goal 11 Make cities inclusive, safe,  resilient and sustainable 
HP s actions Community giving and  volunteerism 
Goal 15 Sustainably manage forests,  combat desertification, halt and reverse  land degradation, halt biodiversity loss 
HP s actions Zero deforestation, Paper 
HP s actions Fourth Industrial  Revolution, Supply chain responsibility,  Community giving and volunteerism 
Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and quality  education for all and promote lifelong  learning 
HP s actions Global education programs,  Community giving and volunteerism 
Goal 8 Promote inclusive and sustainable  economic growth, employment and  decent work for all 
Goal 12 Ensure sustainable consumption  and production patterns 
HP s actions Circular economy, Products  and solutions portfolio 
Goal 16 Promote just, peaceful and  inclusive societies 
HP s actions Ethics and anti-corruption,  Human rights, Supply chain  responsibility 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  138 
Global Reporting Initiative index 
HP considered the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2016 Sustainability Reporting Standards in the development of this report.  
This index includes links to information about relevant Disclosures. 
102-5 Ownership and legal form 8, HP 2018 10-K 
Ethics and integrity 
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 131 
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8, 68, HP 2018 10-K  
102-4 Location of operations HP 2018 10-K, Map of HP  supplier sites 
102-7 Scale of the organization 8, 9, 10, 92,  HP 2018 10-K 
102-9 Supply chain 71 
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 92, HP 2018 10-K 
102-12 External initiatives 57, 68, 70, 72,  105, 136, 137 
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 9, 13, 49, 134 
Disclosure Location 
GRI 102: General Disclosures 
Organizational profile 
102-1 Name of the organization 8 
102-8 Information on employees   and other workers 
102-13 Membership of associations  Affiliations and  memberships 
102-3 Location of headquarters 8 
102-6 Markets served HP 2018 10-K 
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 108 
A portion of the organization s work is performed by individuals other  than HP employees or other workers supervised by HP, including workers  employed or supervised by contractors. 
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 55 
Governance 
102-18 Governance structure 55, Governance 
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 55 
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Governance 
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Governance 
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate governance  guidelines 
102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate governance  guidelines 
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Contacting the board    
102-36 Process for determining remuneration  HP 2019 Proxy Statement  
Stakeholder engagement 
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 55 
102-41 Collective bargaining   agreements 
102-35 Remuneration policies HP 2019 Proxy Statement  
102-19 Delegating authority 55 
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 55 
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 64 
Disclosure Location 
The percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining  agreements (CBAs) is managed at a local level. As of October 31, 2018,  approximately 27% of employees companywide were covered by a union  or CBA. 
55, Nominating,  Governance and Social  Responsibility Committee  charter 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  139 
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 
102-46 Defining report content and   topic Boundaries 
102-51 Date of most recent report June 2018 
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Feedback 
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance  with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards:   Core option. 
102-55 GRI content index 138 
102-56 External assurance 132 
102-47 List of material topics 56, 129, 134 
102-48 Restatements of information Noted in sections as appropriate 
102-49 Changes in reporting 
Disclosure Location 
102-43 Approach to stakeholder  engagement 
Reporting practice 
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements HP 2018 10-K 
102-50 Reporting period 129 
Some forms of stakeholder engagement follow a set frequency, such as our  annual employee Voice Insight Action survey, yearly responses to rating  ranking questionnaires, and supplier audits. Other forms of engagement,  such as responses to customer requests for information about our  Sustainable Impact performance, collaboration with NGOs and industry  peers on specific issues, and discussion with policy makers, occur on an  ad hoc basis. Examples are included throughout this report. We consider  input from customers, NGOs, employees, investors, and others in the  preparation of our annual Sustainable Impact Report. 
HP determined the boundary for each material issue in this report  based on input and review from executives and content experts. These  assessments considered the value chain phases in which the most  relevant impacts and opportunities occur. 
Our materiality assessment reflects the key topics and concerns that  have been raised through stakeholder engagement and various analysis.  This report describes how HP addresses those issues, including in some  cases through engagement with the relevant stakeholder groups. 
The Executive summary section of this report provides a high-level  overview of our Sustainable Impact strategy and progress, and vision  for the future. The Detailed disclosures section includes more in-depth  information on our approach and performance across the broad range  of environmental, social, and governance issues. 
56, 129, 134 
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 65 
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 65 
GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series 
GRI 301: Materials 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
301-2 Recycled input materials used 108 
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 123 
GRI 302: Energy 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 102 
302-3 Energy intensity 102 
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 93 
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 108, 114 
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 108 
GRI 303: Water 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
Material Topics 
GRI 200 Economic Standards Series 
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
Disclosure Location 
103-2 The management approach and its components 64 
103-2 The management approach and its components 92, 93, 108 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 108, 134 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 93, 108, 134 
103-2 The management approach and its components 79, 92, 95, HP water  accounting manual 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 64 
103-2 The management approach and its components 108 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 108, 126 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  59, 135 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102, 108, 114 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  64, 134 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  140 
GRI 305: Emissions 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 60 
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 61, 85, 126 
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 60 
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 93 
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 103 
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
303-1 Water withdrawal by source 62, 85, 102 
303-3 Water recycled and reused 102 
Disclosure Location 
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 60 
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 85, 96, 102 
306-3 Significant spills 
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment  
GRI 103: Management Approach   
103-2 The management approach and its components 77, 92, 93, HP  carbon accounting manual 
103-2 The management approach and its components 80, 92, 96 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  58, 134 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80, 96, 135 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 60, 85, 102 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 85, 96, 102 
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 62, 85, 102 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  77, 134 
We apply the risk-prevention and management procedures of our  environmental, health, and safety management system to help prevent  unplanned releases at our facilities. In 2018, we experienced no  significant unplanned releases. 
72, 77, Our approach  to a sustainable supply  chain 
    Although this GRI Standards Topic was not determined to be material in HP s materiality assessment, we recognize that  it is relevant to some stakeholders and we provide information about HP s programs and performance in this area.   
308-1 New suppliers that were screened  using environmental criteria 
GRI 400 Social Standards Series 
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
GRI 404: Training and Education  
403-2 Types of injury and rates of   injury, occupational diseases, lost days,  and absenteeism  and number of work- related fatalities 
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 90 
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 90 
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career   development reviews 
Disclosure Location 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  91, 135 
103-2 The management approach and its components 91, 92 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 101 
103-2 The management approach and its components 90 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 90 
103-3 Evaluation of the   management approach 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  90 
We determined that 96% of HP first-tier production suppliers, by spend,  had environmental management system (EMS) certification (e.g., ISO  14001) for manufacturing sites during 2018. Data represented review  of 94% of HP production spend, extrapolated to 100%. The HP Supplier  Code of Conduct requires our suppliers to have an effective EMS for  manufacturing sites, regardless of third-party certification. We audit  suppliers to this standard. 
More than 95% of HP production suppliers, by spend, have been screened  using environmental criteria. This includes new suppliers that were  onboarded during 2018. 
The types of injury HP recorded in calendar year 2018 included head  neck (29% of the total), hands wrists (20%), lower extremities (18%),  arms shoulders (13%), back (11%), and other (9%). It is not practical to  break down the injury data that HP reports by employment contract  (employees and contractors that HP manages) or by gender. The  occupational disease rate at HP in calendar year 2018 was essentially  zero. HP experienced zero fatalities for the years reported (fiscal year  2016 and calendar years 2017 and 2018). HP does not report absentee  rate. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  141 
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men HP s approach to fair and  equitable pay 
GRI 406: Non-discrimination 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
406-1 Incidents of discrimination   and corrective actions taken 
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which  the right to freedom of association and  collective bargaining may be at risk 
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 
Disclosure Location 
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 72, 73, 134 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  72, 73, 134 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 87, 100 
103-2 The management approach and its components 87 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  87, 135 
HP discloses the rates of conformance in production supplier sites  audited, as well as the data needed to calculate the approximate number  of nonconformances. Due to confidentiality, HP does not report details  regarding specific incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. 
HP discloses the rates of conformance in production supplier sites  audited, as well as the data needed to calculate the approximate  number of nonconformances. We require suppliers to train workers to  understand their rights concerning collective bargaining, and to allow  workers to associate freely without fear of discrimination, reprisal,  intimidation, or harassment. 
66, 72, Our approach  to a sustainable supply  chain 
66, 72, Our approach  to a sustainable supply  chain 
87, 100, HP board of  directors, HP 2019 Proxy  Statement 
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
408-1 Operations and suppliers at  significant risk for incidents of child labor 
409-1 Operations and suppliers at  significant risk for incidents of forced or  compulsory labor 
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact  assessments 
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment  
GRI 103: Management Approach   
GRI 408: Child Labor 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
Disclosure Location 
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 
103-2 The management approach and its components 66 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  72, 73, 134 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 66 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 72, 73, 134 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  66, 134 
HP discloses the rates of conformance in production supplier sites audited,  as well as the data needed to calculate the approximate number of  nonconformances. To support rights in this area, HP has controls to meet  student and young worker requirements. In China, no more than 20% of the  direct labor supporting the manufacturing of HP products, packaging, parts,  components, subassemblies, and materials at any given facility should  consist of student workers at any point in time. We track performance in this  area through our KPI program. 
HP discloses the rates of conformance in production supplier sites audited,  as well as the data needed to calculate the approximate number of  nonconformances. See Combating forced labor for more detail about our  approach in this area. 
66, 72, Our approach  to a sustainable supply  chain 
66, 72, Our approach  to a sustainable supply  chain 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  142 
414-1 New suppliers that were   screened using social criteria 
GRI 415: Public Policy 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
415-1 Political contributions 
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 
GRI 103: Management Approach  
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 112 
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses   of customer data 
Disclosure Location 
103-2 The management approach and its components 72, Our approach to a  sustainable supply chain 
103-2 The management approach and its components 112 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 70, 135 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  112, 135 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 68, 134 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 84 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 112 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 68 
103-2 The management approach and its components 70, HP Political  Contributions Policy 
103-2 The management approach and its components 68 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 73, 74, 134 
More than 95% of HP production suppliers, by spend, have been screened  using social criteria. This includes new suppliers that were onboarded  during 2018. 
HP 2018 Corporate  Political Contributions,  HP 2018 Employee PAC  Contributions, U.S. lobbying  expenditures 
HP 2018 Corporate  Political Contributions,  HP 2018 Employee PAC  Contributions, U.S. lobbying  expenditures 
Data and product security 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
Intellectual property protection 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
Other material issues   
Disclosure Location 
Corporate governance 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
     This includes issues determined to meet the materiality threshold for this report that are not already addressed   by the GRI Standards Topics in the index above.  
IT for sustainable development 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
103-2 The management approach and its components 69, 113 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 69, 113 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  69, 113, 134 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103, 126 
103-2 The management approach and its components 55, 64, Governance,  HP 2019 Proxy Statement 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance, HP 2019 Proxy  Statement 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  135 
103-2 The management approach and its components 70, 114 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 70, 114 
103-2 The management approach and its components 97, 105, 114, 121 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  135 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 134 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Additional information about the data presented in this report is available upon request. 
Sustainable Impact 
Sustainable Impact strategy 
1 In 2018, we tracked  972 million in new revenue in which sustainability criteria were a known consideration and  were supported actively by HP s Sustainability and Compliance organization. This represented an increase of 35%  compared to 2017. 
2 According to a UN report. 
3 According to the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. 
4 All HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging will be derived from certified and recycled sources by 2020,  with a preference for virgin fiber from certified sources of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Packaging is the box  that comes with the product and all paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. 
5 Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a percentage of total plastic used in all HP personal systems, printer hardware, and  print cartridges shipped during the reporting year. Total volume excludes brand-licensed products and after-market  hardware accessories. Total RCP includes postconsumer recycled plastic, closed-loop plastic, and ocean-bound plastic  used in HP products. Personal systems plastic is defined by EPEAT  eco-label criteria. Subject to relevant restrictions on  the use and distribution of materials destined for recycling and or recycled feedstocks. 
6 HP product use GHG emissions intensity measures per unit GHG emissions during anticipated product lifetime use.  These values are then weighted by contribution of personal systems and printing products to overall revenue. These  emissions represent more than 99% of HP product units shipped each year, including notebooks, tablets, desktops,  mobile computing devices, workstations, displays, and digital signage  HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, Scitex,  and Jet Fusion 3D printers  and scanners. 
7 All HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging will be derived from certified and recycled sources by 2020,  with a preference for virgin fiber from certified sources of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Packaging is the box  that comes with the product and all paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. 
8 Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier production and product transportation suppliers  reported GHG  emissions attributable to HP divided by HP s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business  productivity. Intensity is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease the impact of variance year over year  and highlight longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. 
9 This continues a goal from before the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, extending the  goal to 2025. Includes data from suppliers associated with HP Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation business units. 
10 Progress through 2018 includes 77,800 factory workers in 2015, 45,700 in 2016, 119,900 in 2017, and 12,000 in 2018. 
11 This data does not include participation in Responsible Business Alliance audits.  Participation in our supply chain  sustainability programs  is quantified by those programs that go beyond audits to build supplier capabilities to meet  our standards. This includes deep dive assessment, weekly reporting of labor metrics, procurement engagement  through our supplier Sustainability Scorecard, and in-depth coaching and workshops tailored to supplier risks. 
12 Source: Department of Labor. https:  www.shrm.org foundation ourwork initiatives preparing-for-future-hr-trends  Documents 10-15%20Randstad%20Presentation.pdf 
13 Includes valuation of employee volunteer hours, employee donations, HP Foundation match, and HP Foundation grants. 
14 The HP Foundation is a nonprofit, 501(c)3 organization. 
15 The Financial and Risk business of Thomson Reuters is now Refinitiv. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  143 
1 This report includes updated data for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, and energy use, and water consumption  from operations, back to the baseline of 2015, per guidance in the GHG Protocol, to reflect sites that came under HP  operational control following the acquisition of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. s printer business on November 1, 2017  (see About our operational data). Data for 2017 and 2018 include improved data that better reflects average laser  printer paper usage, compared to 2017 data for product use stated in the HP 2017 Sustainable Impact Report. 
2 Carbon and water footprint data presented in this section related to our suppliers is calculated using product life cycle  assessment-based estimates for materials extraction through manufacturing and product transportation. Supply  chain GHG emissions and water withdrawal data presented on page 85 is based on a different methodology.  
Carbon and climate impact 
1 This table includes selected examples of identification and assessment processes, risks and opportunities, and  management steps. It is not intended to be comprehensive. This table does not intend to convey that the risks and  opportunities included are material from a financial perspective. Rather, they illustrate the scope and manner of how  we assess and address risks and opportunities in this area.  
Integrity and human rights 
Human rights 
1 Salient risks are those that are severe in potential impact, reasonably likely to occur, and difficult to remediate. 
1 As of January 2019. https:  ec.europa.eu newsroom article29 item-detail.cfm?item id 613841 
2 HP cybersecurity baselines align with industry best practices recognized by ISACA, ISC2, ISSA, NIST, SANS, and others. 
Government relations 
1 3D Printing: ensuring manufacturing leadership in the 21st century, page 15. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Supply chain responsibility 
1 HP uses the terms  production suppliers,   product transportation suppliers,  and  nonproduction suppliers   throughout this report.  Production suppliers  provide materials and components for our product manufacturing  and also assemble HP products, and are the primary focus of our HP Supplier Code of Conduct audits, assessments,  KPI program, Sustainability Scorecard, and capability-building initiatives.  Product transportation suppliers  provide  services for the shipping and delivery of HP products. Learn more in Supply chain responsibility: Environmental  impact.  Nonproduction suppliers  provide goods and services that do not go into the production of HP products (such  as staffing, telecommunications, and travel). These suppliers are a significant focus of our supplier diversity efforts.   
2 In 2018, the value of revenue supported by HP s Sustainability and Compliance organization included retained, new,  and potential revenue, where supply chain responsibility was an area of particular interest for the customer.  
3 The information in this section does not reflect suppliers added to our supply chain following the acquisition  of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. s printer business on November 1, 2017. We plan to include those suppliers  as appropriate beginning in the HP 2019 Sustainable Impact Report. As of April 2019, we have carried out risk  assessments on more than 25 suppliers related to the acquisition and added high-risk supplier sites to our program.  We will follow up to ensure corrective actions have been implemented to address issues identified and will complete  regular assessments. 
4 Progress through 2018 includes 77,800 factory workers in 2015, 45,700 in 2016, 119,900 in 2017, and 12,000 in 2018. 
5 This data does not include participation in RBA audits.  Participation in our supply chain sustainability programs   is quantified by those programs that go beyond audits to build supplier capabilities to meet our standards. This  includes deep dive assessment, weekly reporting of labor metrics, procurement engagement through our supplier  Sustainability Scorecard, and in-depth coaching and workshops tailored to supplier risks. 
1  The term  forced labor  refers to situations in which people are coerced to work against their will, either overtly  through violence or intimidation, or by more subtle means such as accumulated debt, retention of identity papers,  and threats of denunciation. HP forbids any forced, bonded, or indentured labor, involuntary prison labor, slavery, or  trafficking of persons within its supply chain. 
2 We use these terms interchangeably when describing HP s existing programs and policies.  
Responsible minerals sourcing 
1  Conflict minerals  refers to the mineral precursors of the metals tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold (3TG) as defined in  the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rule requiring a conflict minerals disclosure. Revenue from mining  these minerals in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries has been widely linked to funding  for groups engaged in extreme violence and human rights atrocities. 
Environmental impact 
1 Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier production and product transportation suppliers  reported GHG  emissions attributable to HP divided by HP s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business  productivity. Intensity is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease the impact of variance year over year  and highlight longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. 
2 Calculated as a three-year rolling average, through December 2017 (the most recent year data is available). 
3 See HP Announces Supply Chain Goals to Enhance Environmental and Social Impact. 
4 This continues a goal from before the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, extending the  goal to 2025. Includes data from suppliers associated with HP Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation business units. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  144 
Audit results 
1 These include child labor, forced labor, severe forms of discrimination, health and safety issues posing immediate  danger to life or risk of serious injury, and perceived violation of environmental laws posing serious and immediate  harm to the community. We take such findings very seriously, and require suppliers to cease all related practices and  report corrective actions taken within 30 days of the original audit. Recruitment fees must be reimbursed within 90  days from discovery and are verified by an on-site inspection within 180 days from discovery. We follow up closely  to ensure that all required corrective actions are completed, and visit sites to confirm resolution. Immediate priority  findings do not necessarily involve termination of the supplier  we work with suppliers as appropriate to improve their  performance and worker conditions in these areas.  
2 Two of these immediate priority findings were external allegations confirmed by HP. 
Operations 
Our employees 
1 As of October 31, 2018. 
2 Prior to the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company. 
4 As of October 31, 2018. 
5 During calendar year 2018, HP documented 135 recordable incidents, 51 lost workday cases, and 1,125 lost workdays. 
Our facilities 
1 As of May 2019. 
2 About GHG emissions data:  This report includes Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions data from HP s operations, transportation fleet, and employee  business travel, calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Business Council for Sustainable  Development (WBCSD) and World Resources Institute (WRI). See the HP 2018 carbon footprint for more details and an  overview of emissions across the value chain. 
3 This includes NEWater (ultra-purified wastewater used in manufacturing operations in Singapore) as well as recycled  or reused water reported by sites globally. Grey water is included, rain water is not. 
Community giving and volunteerism 
1 The HP Foundation is a nonprofit, 501(c)3 organization. 
2 Includes valuation of employee volunteer hours, employee donations, HP Foundation match, and HP Foundation grants. 
3 Hourly rate based on type of volunteering:  150 hour for board, service corp, pro bono, and skills based   24.69 hour  for hands-on and undetermined, adjusted using World Bank data for purchasing power differences across countries. 
Data in this section for 2015 2018 uses the market-based method. In the data summary, we also include 2015 2018  data using the location-based method. 
  Scope 1 emissions include those from the direct use of natural gas, diesel fuel, refrigerants, and PFCs in operations  and from fuel used by HP s transportation fleet.   Scope 2 emissions are primarily from purchased electricity used in HP s operational real estate.   Scope 3 emissions reported in this section result from employee business travel by commercial airlines and from  commuting. 
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Products and solutions 
Sustainable design 
1 We conduct product carbon footprints (PCFs), a subset of life cycle assessment, of all business HP desktops,  notebooks, tablets, workstations, thin clients, all-in-one computers, digital signage, and displays to better  understand performance of individual products and our overall portfolio. These estimate total GHG emissions  associated with a product over its lifetime and include emissions from materials extraction, manufacturing,  distribution, use, and end-of-life management. To assess and report our complete personal systems product carbon  footprint, we extrapolate these results to cover 99% of overall personal systems product sales (by unit and by  revenue) during the reporting year. 
2 The average energy consumption of HP products was estimated annually between 2010 and 2018 using high-volume  product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume personal systems product lines  include notebook and desktop computers, tablets, all-in-ones, workstations, thin clients, and displays. 
3 The average energy consumption (based on ENERGY STAR  program s Typical Electricity Consumption (TEC)) of HP  products was estimated annually between 2010 and 2018 using high-volume product lines representative of the  overall shipped product volume. 
4 The average energy consumption (based on sleep mode power) of newly introduced HP products was estimated  annually between 2010 and 2018 using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product  volume. The high-volume product lines include HP inkjet printers and exclude PageWide inkjet printers and large- format printers. 
5 Product use GHG emissions intensity describes the performance of our portfolio, taking into account changes to  product mix and business growth. HP Product use GHG emissions intensity measures per unit GHG emissions during  anticipated product lifetime use. These values are then weighted by contribution of personal systems and printing  products to overall revenue. These emissions represent more than 99% of HP product units shipped each year,  including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing devices, workstations, displays, and digital signage  HP  inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, Scitex, and Jet Fusion 3D printers  and scanners. 
6 Data for 2017 and 2018 include improved data that better reflects average laser printer paper usage, compared to  2017 data for product use stated in the HP 2017 Sustainable Impact Report. 
7 Safer alternatives are rated as GreenScreen  benchmark 2 or better. This data point is calculated based on the total  mass of benign and safer alternatives divided by the total mass of products shipped. Commercial and industrial graphics  printing solutions products, as well as accessories and packaging for all HP products, are not included in this total. 
8 See Joint JEDEC ECA Standard: Definition of  Low-Halogen  for Electronic Products. 
9 Excluding DC cable, AC power cord, and connectors. 
10 This number does not include commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, packaging for those solutions,  scanners, personal systems accessories sold separately, or documentation for any products. 
11 Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a percentage of total plastic used in all HP personal systems, printer hardware, and  print cartridges shipped during the reporting year. Total volume excludes brand-licensed products and after-market  hardware accessories. Total RCP includes postconsumer recycled plastic, closed-loop plastic, and ocean-bound plastic  used in HP products. Personal systems plastic is defined by EPEAT  eco-label criteria. Subject to relevant restrictions on  the use and distribution of materials destined for recycling and or recycled feedstocks. 
12 Does not include toner bottles. 
13 Less than 2% of paper by tonnage is not labeled as certified, but is made from certified fiber. Recycled fiber for paper  products is included in the FSC-certified value. 
14 All HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging will be derived from certified and recycled sources by 2020,  with a preference for virgin fiber from certified sources of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Packaging is the box  that comes with the product and all paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  145 
Product responsibility 
1  World s most secure and manageable PC  claim is based on HP s unique and comprehensive security capabilities at  no additional cost and HP s Manageability Integration Kit s management of every aspect of a PC including hardware,  BIOS and software management using Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager  among vendors with 1M  annual unit sales as of November 2016 on HP Elite PCs with 7th generation and higher Intel  Processors, Intel   integrated graphics, and Intel  WLAN. 
2 HP Sure Start Gen5 is available on select HP PCs with Intel processors. See product specifications for availability. 
3 HP Sure Recover Gen2: See product specifications for availability. Requires an open, wired network connection.  Not available on platforms with multiple internal storage drives. Users must back up important files, data, photos,  videos, etc. before using HP Sure Recover to avoid loss of data.  HP Sure Recover (Gen1) does not support platforms  with Intel  Optane .  
4 HP Sure Run Gen2:  See product specifications for availability. 
5 HP Sure Click is available on most HP PCs and supports Microsoft  Internet Explorer , Google Chrome, and  Chromium . Supported attachments include Microsoft Office  (Word , Excel , PowerPoint ) and PDF files in read only  mode, when Microsoft Office or Adobe Acrobat are installed. 
6 HP Sure Sense requires Windows 10. See product specifications for availability. Introduced in March 2019.  
7 HP Sure View integrated privacy screen is an optional feature that must be configured at purchase and is designed to  function in landscape orientation. 
8 Introduced in March 2019. 
9 HP s most advanced embedded security features are available on HP Enterprise-class devices with FutureSmart  firmware 4.5 or above and are based on HP review of 2016 2017 published embedded security features of  competitive in-class printers. Only HP offers a combination of security features for integrity checking down to the  BIOS with self-healing capabilities. For a list of compatible products, visit: hp.com go PrintersThatProtect. For more  information, visit: www.hp.com go printersecurityclaims. 
Product and solutions portfolio 
1 The average energy consumption of HP products was estimated annually between 2010 and 2018 using high-volume  product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume personal systems product lines  include notebook and desktop computers, tablets, all-in-ones, workstations, thin clients, and displays. 
2 As defined by TCO Edge plastic part definition. 
3 As defined by the IEEE 1680.1 2018 EPEAT standard. Data are calendar year 2018.  
4 Based on all-in-ones with self-serviceable hard drive, M.2 storage, webcam, and the ability to remove and service the  display and PC individually as of September 1, 2017. 
5 HP s Forest Positive Framework is built on previous HP achievements in responsible sourcing of HP brand paper  and paper-based product packaging. The Framework includes actions in five areas: maintaining HP s long-standing  commitment to sustainable sourcing, engaging in collaborative projects with NGOs to support leading forestry science,  working with NGOs to restore and protect global forests, leveraging HP s media partnerships to influence positive  actions, and advancing printing technology to help customers use paper efficiently. To reduce the burden on forests, HP  has also been increasing alternative fiber content in its packaging. 
6 Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a percentage of total plastic used in all HP personal systems, printer hardware, and  print cartridges shipped during the reporting year. Total volume excludes brand-licensed products and after-market  hardware accessories. Total RCP includes postconsumer recycled plastic, closed-loop plastic, and ocean-bound plastic  used in HP products. Personal systems plastic is defined by EPEAT eco-label criteria. Subject to relevant restrictions on  the use and distribution of materials destined for recycling and or recycled feedstocks. 
7 Compared to the majority of in-class color desktop inkjet all-in-ones   199 USD. HP internal research survey of  printer manufacturers  published specifications, sustainability reports, and press releases as of 1 1 2019 and Buyers  
Sustainable Impact Executive summary Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
8 Energy consumption .835 kWh week based on Keypoint Intelligence Buyer s Laboratory test report  HP PageWide  Managed Color Flow MFP E77650z vs. Competitive Laser Models,  January 2019. 
9 Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) savings based on the average lifetime use of printing 100,000 pages, and excluding  paper. Peer-reviewed life cycle assessment models commissioned by HP and conducted by thinkstep for inkjet  (August 2016) and LaserJet (May 2016) and updated in 2018 comparing to comparable models of HP Color Laserjets.  Specific results run by HP internal LCA experts. 
10 Supplies and packaging materials comparison based on Keypoint Intelligence Buyer s Laboratory test report  HP  PageWide Managed Color Flow MFP E77650z vs. Competitive Laser Models,  January 2019. 
11 HP ink cartridges contain recycled HP ink cartridges plus bottles or hangers. HP toner cartridges contain recycled HP  toner cartridges. 
12 Based on plan usage, Internet connection to eligible HP printer, valid credit debit card, email address, and delivery  service in your geographic area. Number of countries is as of April 2018. 
13 Based on monthly subscription cost using only all pages in plan vs. cost per page of most color inkjet cartridge printers     399. Share of New Inkjet Unit Shipments (   399) for 2018Q1 period in the United States from IDC 2018Q1 Final  Release. Standard cartridge CPP from gap intelligence 7 24 18. 
14 Compared with non-subscription purchase of the same HP ink cartridges. Based on a 2017 life cycle assessment  (LCA) performed by Four Elements Consulting and commissioned by HP. Analysis includes the CO2e associated with  customer trips to purchase ink cartridges at a retail store versus delivering directly to a customer s house, and it  includes recycling empty ink cartridges versus throwing them away. Data and assumptions drawn from six years of  customer data in the United States. Reductions in materials consumption, carbon footprint, energy use, and water  usage are average values. 
15 Clone cartridges are newly built cartridges that are manufactured to look like Original HP toner cartridges, but use  non-HP parts and toner and may violate patent holders  intellectual property rights. 
16 2019 NA SpencerLab Monochrome Reliability study, commissioned by HP, compared Original HP cartridges with two  brands of imitation cartridges for HP Pro M402 and Pro M521 printers  HP 26A and 55A cartridges. For details, see   www.spencerlab.com reports HPReliability-NA-NBC2019.pdf. 
17 A 2019 NA Market Strategies International study commissioned by HP. Results based on 222 surveys from HP  ServiceOne Partners who have at least 6 months of experience servicing HP monochrome and Color LaserJet printers  with HP and non-HP toner cartridges installed, and have done so within the previous 12 months of the study. For  details, see www.marketstrategies.com hp NA-Technician2019.pdf.  
18 2018 Four Elements Consulting LCA study, commissioned by HP, compared Original HP 80A and 83A  monochrome  toner cartridges with a sample of new build compatible (NBC) alternatives across eight environmental impact  categories. For more, visit http:  www.hp.com go NA-LJLCA-NBC-2018. The LCA leverages a SpencerLab 2016 study,  commissioned by HP, comparing Original HP LaserJet toner cartridges with three brands of NBC toner cartridges sold  in NA. For details, see  http:  www.spencerlab.com reports HPReliability-NA-NBC2016.pdf. 
19 Dec 2017 WKI Blue Angel Indoor Air Quality compliance study, commissioned by HP. The study tested New Build  Compatible toner cartridge brands sold as substitutes for HP LaserJet Pro MFP M425dn with cartridge 280A. The tests  were carried out in compliance with Blue Angel labeling of office equipment in accordance with RAL-UZ-205P. For  details, see http:  h20195.www2.hp.com v2 getpdf.aspx 4AA7-1981ENW.pdf. 
20 2018 Four Elements Consulting LCA study, commissioned by HP, compared Original HP 80A and 83A monochrome  toner cartridges with a sample of new build compatible (NBC) alternatives across eight environmental impact  categories. For more information, visit hp.com go NA-LJLCA-NBC-2018. The LCA leverages a SpencerLab 2016 study,  commissioned by HP, comparing Original HP LaserJet toner cartridges with three brands of NBC toner cartridges sold  in NA. For details, see http:  www.spencerlab.com reports HPReliability-NA-NBC2016.pdf. 
HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report  www.hp.com sustainableimpact  146 
Laboratory Inc. January 2019 study commissioned by HP  keypointintelligence.com products samples hp-envy .  Market share as reported by IDC CYQ3 2018 Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker. The HP ENVY 6200, 7100, and 7800 all-in- one printers contain more than 10% plastic from recycled printers and other electronics by weight of the plastic. 
21 InfoTrends, 2018 North America Supplies Recycling study, commissioned by HP. Findings are based on average results  of interviews with 7 remanufacturers, 2 NBC manufacturers, 3 empty collectors and 3 distributors. For details, see   www.hp.com go NA-2018InfoTrends. Program availability varies. For more, hp.com recycle. 
22 Based on comparable competitive binder jetting and selective laser melting (SLM) metals 3D printing solutions  available as of July 31, 2018. Productivity claim based on: 1) up to 50 times more productive, on average, based on  print speed for serial production up to 100,000 parts, and 2) solution acquisition cost. 
23 Low cost based on comparable competitive binder jetting and selective laser melting (SLM) metals 3D printing  solutions available as of July 31, 2018. Expected printer price for 2020 launch for lead customers. 
24 HP Jet Fusion 3D printing solutions using HP 3D High Reusability PA 12 and HP 3D High Reusability PA 11 provide 80%  postproduction surplus material reusability, producing functional parts batch after batch. For testing, material is aged  in real printing conditions and tracked by generations (worst case for reusability). Parts are then made from each  generation and tested for mechanical properties and accuracy. 
25 https:  www8.hp.com us en hp-information environment product-recycling.html. 
26 In addition to HP Multi Jet Fusion, the assessment included specific 3D printing systems using the following  technologies: digital light synthesis, fused deposition modeling, and selective laser sintering. 
27 The HP material and agents do not meet the criteria for classification as hazardous according to Regulation (EC)  1272 2008 as amended. 
28 As of May 2019. 
Product repair, reuse, and recycling 
1 Does not include toner bottles. 
2 Compared to the majority of in-class color desktop inkjet all-in-ones   199 USD. HP internal research survey of  printer manufacturers  published specifications, sustainability reports, and press releases as of August 1, 2017 and  Buyers Laboratory Inc. 2017 study commissioned by HP  keypointintelligence.com products samples hp-envy .  Market share as reported by IDC CYQ1 2017 Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker. The HP ENVY 6200, 7100, and 7800 all-in- one printers contain more than 10% closed-loop plastic from recycled printers and other electronics plastic by weight  of the plastic. 
3 This is the number of countries or territories where HP offers hardware recycling and or HP ink cartridge recycling  and or HP toner cartridge recycling. 
      Microsoft, Office, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, System Center Configuration Manager, and Internet Explorer are either  registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and or other countries. 