SUSTAINABLE   IMPACT REPORT 
Table of contents 
3  Letter from President and CEO  
4  About HP 
6 Sustainable Impact 
7  Sustainable Impact strategy 
12  United Nations Sustainable  Development Goals 
13  Recognition 
14  Stakeholder engagement 
15  Governance 
15  Materiality 
18 Footprint 
19  Carbon and climate impact  
25 Integrity and human  rights 
26  Ethics and anti-corruption 
28  Human rights 
In this report, "we", "us", "our", "company", "HP", and  "HP Inc." refer to HP Inc. (formerly Hewlett-Packard  Company) and its consolidated subsidiaries. 
2  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
26 Ethics  
27 Anti-corruption 
30  Privacy 
33  Government relations 
34 Supply chain  
35  Approach 
38  Health and safety 
39  Responsible minerals sourcing 
41  Supplier diversity 
42  Environmental impact 
45  Audit results 
52 Operations 
53  Our employees 
59 Wellbeing 
56 Employee development 
58  Compensation and benefits 
58 Health and safety 
32 Cybersecurity 
42 Greenhouse gas emissions 
53 Diversity and inclusion 
56 Employee engagement 
responsibility 
59  Our facilities 
65  Community giving and   
73  Products and  solutions 
74  Advancing a circular and   low-carbon economy 
90  Product responsibility 
  volunteerism 
See the standalone HP 2019 Sustainable  Impact Report Executive Summary. 
61 Greenhouse gas emissions  
59 Environmental, health, and   
65 HP Foundation programs 
67 Disaster recovery and resilience 
67 Employee volunteerism 
77 Keep products and materials   
81 Create a low-carbon future 
83 Design out waste and use   
88 Regenerate natural systems  
90 Product safety  
91 Product security and privacy 
safety management 
materials responsibly 
92  Social impact  
97  Products and solutions portfolio 
108 Appendix  
109 About this report 
111  Policies and standards 
112  Independent accountants  review   
114  Material issues 
116  United Nations Global Compact   
117  United Nations Sustainable  Development Goals index 
118  Sustainability Accounting   Standards Board index 
119  Global Reporting Initiative index 
125  Endnotes 
92 Global education programs 
95 Healthcare 
96 Inclusive design 
98 Personal systems 
100 Home and office printing     solutions 
102 Industrial printing 
104 3D printing 
Fifty years ago, a remarkable group of people came together to  
celebrate the very first Earth Day. Their goal was simple: to unite  
the world behind  the common cause of saving life.  
Today, we remain committed to that same common cause. And  
as we work to safeguard our planet and respond to this ongoing  
pandemic, we are fighting to protect the health and wellbeing of  
people everywhere. 
The profound impact COVID-19 has had on the lives and  
livelihoods of people across the globe has served as a powerful  
reminder that our fates are inextricably linked. Because we ve  
seen that many of the threats we face from a changing climate  
to a spreading virus transcend borders and put all of us at risk.   
That s not to say these challenges affect all of us equally. They  
don t. COVID-19 and climate change both disproportionately  
impact communities of color and lower income households  
around the world. These crises have laid bare the need to  
address the systemic racism and deep inequalities from health  
and education to economic opportunity and the environment  
that have been a stain on society for far too long. And we are  
acting with urgency on all fronts.  
Since the onset of the pandemic, HP has protected its employees  
while marshalling resources to support communities in need.  
From 3D printing medical supplies for hospitals to equipping  
teachers, students, and families with the technology and content  
they need for continued remote learning, I m proud of the way  
our teams have stepped up. 
Our response reflects the values that guide our company not  
simply in moments of crisis, but as a normal course of business.  
And we must continue to find new ways to positively impact the  
planet, people, and communities we serve. 
3  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Letter from   President and CEO  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
This isn t just the right thing to do it s also good for our bottom  
line. In 2019, our Sustainable Impact work helped drive more than  
US 1.6 billion in new sales a testament to the high-performance,  
purpose-driven culture that unites our people and our partners. 
It also reflects the changing role of corporations in society. We  
must not only create value for our shareholders, but also create  
a brighter future for all our stakeholders. 
In this report, we have outlined the progress we are making as  
well as the areas where we need to do better. Here are some of  
the highlights: 
  I believe all companies must continue   to find new ways to lead with purpose,  and positively impact the planet, people  and communities they serve.  
  We sourced more than 1 million pounds of ocean-bound  
  We are more than halfway to achieving our science-based  
  We continue to move toward a sustainable future for printing  
  We have now reached more than 28 million students,  
plastic for use in our products, and we are on track with our  
plans to increase recycled content in our products to 30% by  
2025. We also intend to eliminate 75% of single-use plastic  
from our packaging over the next five years.  
goal of reducing product use greenhouse gas emissions  
intensity by 30% by 2025. And we were one of only eight  
companies to receive a triple-A rating from CDP for our work  
across climate change, forests, and water security.  
that is forest positive, carbon neutral, and supportive of a  
circular economy. For example, through the Sustainable  
Forests Collaborative, we are working to protect, restore and  
manage more than 200,000 acres of forests in Brazil and China. 
teachers, and adult learners through our educational  
programs and partnerships and we are tracking toward  
our goal of enabling better learning outcomes for 100 million  
people by 2025.  
While the road ahead will be difficult, I m confident in our ability  
to drive meaningful and lasting change. 
My confidence comes from the incredible people I work with  
at HP people with a shared commitment to empowering  
humanity through technology, standing up for what we believe  
in, and leaving the world better off than we found it. 
But HP can t do it alone. No company can. Which is why it  
is encouraging and inspiring to see so many companies,  
governments, and NGOs finding new ways to work together on  
shared solutions. 
Ultimately, that s how we will overcome the challenges we face  
and create a more sustainable, equitable, and just society. And  
there has never been a better time for all of us to not only imagine  
the future we want to create, but to start building it together. 
Enrique Lores   
President and CEO 
  We continue to foster a culture of diversity and inclusion. HP  
groups. But we must do much more particularly when it  
comes to the number of Black employees hired and retained  
at HP. That s why we plan to double our number of Black and  
African American executives by 2025. And we are committed  
to doing the hard work needed to help stamp out systemic  
racism and discrimination in all its forms. 
has the most diverse Board in the U.S. technology industry,  
and 63% of our U.S. hires in 2019 were from underrepresented  
4  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
ADVANCE DISRUPT 
Chairman of the Board  
Enrique Lores   
President and Chief   
Executive Officer, HP Inc.  
Chip Bergh   
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Personal systems 
  Reinvent computing experiences   Grow lifetime value   Accelerate services and solutions 
O ice and home printing 
  Drive print innovation   Maximize value of installed base   Evolve business models  
Become more digitally enabled  Optimize our cost structure Simplify and prioritize customer experience 
  Incorporated in  
  Fortune 100 company 
the State of Delaware,  
United States  
OUR STRATEGY 
  Corporate headquarters 
  Ticker symbol 
Graphics and 3D printing 
  Accelerate shift to digital   Expand graphics and 3D solutions 
Capitalize on IP 
  Unlock new sources of value from microfluidics 
HPQ on the New York  
Stock Exchange  
Palo Alto, California,  
United States  
  Approximately 56,000 
employees globally1 
in net revenue 
FISCAL YEAR 2019  HIGHLIGHTS 
 58.8 BILLION 
 4.7 BILLION 
registered patents2 
channel partners 
 1.5 BILLION 
of net cash provided by operations,   
 3.4 billion of which was returned   
to stockholders in the form of   
share repurchases and dividends 
See our full financial performance. 
How we deliver value 
5  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
11,000 supplier factory workers engaged in   skills-building and wellbeing programs 
1.02 million tonnes of materials in our   products and packaging7 
INPUTS IN 2019  
Skills, expertise, competencies,   and capabilities of HP s approximately   56,000 employees globally3 
INTELLECTUAL 
 1.5 billion invested in R D  
Market and customer insights 
Total assets:  33.5 billion4 
Long-term debt:  4.8 billion5 
MANUFACTURED 
HP manufacturing plants 
100 s of production suppliers  
557,345 MWh of electricity used   in global operations, including   43% renewable electricity use6 
25,560 tonnes of postconsumer recycled   content plastic used in HP products  
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP 
Employee, supplier, and partner   codes of conduct and engagement 
 4.77 million in HP cash and   product contributions8 
145,000 employee volunteer hours 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Key stakeholders:    Suppliers and supply chain workers 
  REPAIR, REUSE,  AND RECYCLING                            
Key activities:    Raw materials extraction,   manufacturing, final assembly,   transportation 
Key stakeholders:   Customers, channel partners,   recycling vendors 
Key activities:   Product take-back,  repair, remanufacturing,   re-marketing,   materials recycling 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
OPERATIONS 
Key stakeholders:   HP employees and local communities 
Key activities:   Marketing, employee development   and engagement, facilities operation,   volunteerism, and giving 
          PRODUCTS  AND SERVICES 
Key stakeholders: Customers, channel  and retail partners, regulators, global  communities 
Key activities: R D, product design,  product stewardship, marketing, sales  and channel engagement, channel  partnerships, product delivery,  services, and support  
1.60 million training hours,   an average of 29 hours per employee 
44% decrease in Scope 1 and 2   GHG emissions, since 2015 
VALUE CREATED  IN 2019 
92% of employees feel HP values diversity9 
75% engagement rate among HP employees10 
INTELLECTUAL 
27,000  patents11 
Net revenue:  58.8 billion 
Net cash provided by operations:  4.7 billion 
Share re-purchases and dividends:  3.4 billion 
MANUFACTURED 
Millions of products delivered each year 
ECO declarations covering 93% of revenue12 
4.62 million units of hardware repaired 
1.21 million units of hardware remarketed reused 
133,100 tonnes of hardware and supplies recycled 
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP 
Customer, partner, and supplier   retention and satisfaction 
Better learning outcomes for more   than 28.7 million students and adult learners  through 2019 
Improved resilience in communities   where we live, work, and do business 
Net earnings:  3.2 billion 
Sustainable  Impact 
 7 Sustainable Impact strategy 
12 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
13 Recognition 
14 Stakeholder engagement 
15 Governance 
15 Materiality 
6  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Appendix Products and solutions Operations Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Footprint 
Sustainable Impact strategy 
Sustainable Impact is HP s commitment to  
create positive, lasting change for the planet,  
its people, and our communities. This serves  
as a guiding principle for delivering on our  
corporate vision to create technology that  
makes life better for everyone, everywhere. 
Sustainable Impact is a business imperative  
and key differentiator for HP, helping drive  
more than  1.6 billion in sales wins1 in  
7  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
2019. The businesses that will thrive over  
Winning the right way 
At HP, how we do things is as important as what we do. We work every day to earn  
the trust of our stakeholders and uphold our reputation for integrity and ethical  
leadership. Guided by our employee code of conduct, known as Integrity at HP, we  
apply strong ethics and anti-corruption principles within our operations, across  
our value chain, and in our communities. We combine strong internal governance  
with clear communication so that everyone at HP understands our principles and  
can put them into practice. Through robust policies, protocols, and controls, we  
protect the privacy of our customers and employees. To increase our impact across  
the industry and beyond, we advocate for public policies that drive progress and  
sustainable impact. 
In 2019, 99.4%2 of employees, including senior executives, completed Integrity at  
HP training, as well as all members of our Board of Directors. 
Sustainable Impact 
Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
the long term are those that can decouple  
growth from consumption, grow through  
an inclusive culture, and offer solutions to  
some of the greatest challenges that face  
business and society. Through our focus  
on Sustainable Impact, we are able to  
capitalize on what we do best, and anticipate  
and prepare for the next wave of global  
challenges to deliver lasting value through  
the power of technology. 
Our Sustainable Impact pillars 
We are driving Sustainable Impact across three pillars  Planet, People, and Community.  
This strategy is informed by our analysis of megatrends,  materiality assessment, ongoing engagement with  stakeholders, and alignment with our core businesses. 
People Community 
Our mission 
Transform our entire business  to advance a more efficient,  circular, and low-carbon  economy. 
Enable our customers to  invent the future through our  most sustainable portfolio of  products and services. 
How we re  driving progress 
We adhere to robust sustainable design  
principles, pursue a strategic shift toward  
circular, service-based business models,  
and continue to offer robust product repair,  
reuse, and recycling programs. As a result,  
we are designing and delivering our most  
sustainable portfolio keeping materials  
in use at their highest value state for as  
long as possible, continuing to drive greater  
materials and energy efficiency at all stages,  
and helping to drive a more sustainable  
Fourth Industrial Revolution. 
The impacts of climate change will have  
consequences for all businesses and  
8  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact 
Planet Sustainable Impact goals 
Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
geographies. The science is clear, and the  
need to act is evident. We are working to  
reduce our carbon footprint across the entire  
value chain through ambitious, science- 
based greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  
reduction goals, investment in renewable  
electricity, and advances in product energy  
efficiency. Even more broadly, we continue  
to support multi-sector actions that aim to  
address the threat of a warming planet. 
We also apply our expertise, scale, and  
resources to help regenerate the natural  
systems on which we all depend. Building  
on decades of expertise in closed-loop  
recycling, we have sourced more than  
one million pounds (over 450 tonnes)  
of ocean-bound plastics for use in our  
supplies and hardware since 2017 and  
through September 2019. We are working  
collaboratively within our industry and  
beyond to help grow the market for  
ocean plastics, keeping it out of the ocean  
and in the economy. We ve eliminated  
deforestation from our paper supply chain  
and are 80% of the way toward doing the  
same for our paper-based packaging.3   
And, through HP Sustainable Forests  
Collaborative, we are restoring, protecting,  
and improving over 200,000 acres of forest  
in Brazil and China. 
Reduce HP product use GHG emissions intensity  by 30% by 2025, compared to 2015.6 
Reduce potable water consumption in global  operations by 15% by 2025, compared to 2015. 
Help suppliers cut 2 million tonnes of carbon  dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions between  2010 and 2025.9 
Use 100% renewable electricity in global  operations by 2035. 
Reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from  global operations by 60% by 2025, compared to  2015. 
Eliminate 75% of single-use plastic packaging by  2025, compared to 2018.5   
Recycle 1.2 million tonnes of hardware and  supplies by 2025, since the beginning of 2016. 
Reduce first-tier production supplier and product  transportation-related GHG emissions intensity  by 10% by 2025, compared to 2015.8 
Goal Progress in 2019 UN SDGs 
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 
Use 30% postconsumer recycled content plastic  across HP s personal systems and print product  portfolio by 2025.4 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
Achieve zero deforestation associated with HP  brand paper and paper-based product packaging  by 2020.7 
OPERATIONS 
Use 60% renewable electricity in global  operations by 2025. 
HP s global operations produced  215,800 tonnes of Scope 1 and Scope 2  CO2e emissions, 44% less than our 2015  baseline. Learn more. 
Through December 2018 (the most  recent year data is available), GHG  emissions intensity remained flat  compared to 2015. Learn more. 
Through 2019, suppliers avoided   1.26 million tonnes of CO2e emissions.   Learn more. 
During 2019, we used 25,560 tonnes of  postconsumer recycled content plastic in  HP personal systems and print products,  9% of total plastic used. Learn more. 
Through 2019, we achieved a 5%  reduction. Learn more. 12, 14 
Through the end of 2019, we achieved  an 18% decrease. Learn more. 7, 12, 13 
Reached 528,300 tonnes recycled  through the end of 2019. Learn more. 12 
100% achieved for HP brand paper in  2016 and maintained that performance  through 2019. Reached 80% for paper-  based product packaging. Learn more. 
HP s global operations procured and  generated 240,398 MWh of renewable  electricity and attributes, equivalent  to 43% of our global electricity  consumption. Learn more. 
Exceeded water goal six years early.  Potable water consumption equaled  2,630,000 cubic meters globally, 18%  less than in 2015. Learn more. 
12, 13, 15 
Our mission 
Enable all people who help bring  our products to market to thrive  at work, at home, and in their  communities. 
Embed diversity and inclusion in  everything we do. 
How we re  driving progress 
Better innovation and business growth come  
from diverse, empowered people and teams.  
We champion respect for human rights in our  
operations, supply chain, and in relation to  
our products. Using our scale and influence,  
we promote positive changes so that  
business and society can thrive.  
Through our supply chain responsibility  
program, we focus on improving labor  
conditions within supplier factories, tackling  
industry-wide challenges such as forced  
labor and conflict minerals, and building  
essential worker and management skills  
and capabilities. 
Within our business and across our value  
chain, fostering diversity and inclusion is a  
9  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact 
Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
how we create and deliver products and  
services. Leading as a purpose-driven brand  
and investing in the development of our  
employee base are critical to attracting,  
retaining, and developing a diverse and  
engaged workforce.  
business imperative and essential to serving  
our global customers. We embed diversity  
and inclusion into everything we do. Our  
Board of Directors is the most diverse of any  
U.S. technology company. We encourage our  
suppliers and partners to commit to diversity  
and inclusion goals and invest in programs  
and partnerships that build the pipeline  
for diverse talent. Furthermore, we are  
committed to creating inclusive technology  
that affirms human dignity, promotes  
independence, and unleashes creativity. 
Our investments in human capital  
development help to make HP the best  
place for employees to grow and develop.  
Fueled by the talent, diversity, and drive of  
our employees, we invest in their career  
growth and are passionate about supporting  
the inclusive culture and growth mindset  
on which our success depends. Changing  
demographics, socioeconomic conditions,  
and expectations around the role of  
corporations are radically altering workforce  
and customer requirements and influencing  
Double factory participation11 in our supply   chain sustainability programs by 2025,  compared to 2015. 
Maintain greater than 99% completion rate of  annual Integrity at HP training among active HP  employees and the Board of Directors. 
Sustainable Impact goals 
Goal Progress in 2019 UN SDGs 
Develop skills and improve wellbeing of 500,000  factory workers by 2025, since the beginning of  2015. 
national governments, families, and individuals in ways few of us could have imagined.  
The wellbeing of our employ ees, partners, customers, and their families is our  
number one priority, and we have taken a wide range of actions across our business  
to keep people safe. We swiftly took action to protect our people in line with public  
health guidance. Additional measures HP has implemented during this time include  
assisting our hourly employees and certain contin gent workers with continued pay  
HP s response to COVID-19  
The COVID-19 pandemic has challenged all of us businesses large and small, local and  
and other supporting benefits, deferring workforce reduction notifications, and  
and to one another through the power of technology. 
At the same time, we remain committed to supporting communities around the  
world. HP and the HP Foundation contributed financial resources to support  
affected communities. Together with nonprofit partners, we launched and  
 promoted several initiatives aimed at sup porting teachers, students, and school  
districts through a range of digital and printed educational resources. Learn more.  
offering employees virtual office hours with our in-house medical doctor. And, we  
moved quickly to help our em ployees and customers stay safely connected to work  
266,400 supplier factory workers have  participated in programs since the  beginning of 2015.10 Learn more. 
Factory participation increased by 53%  compared to 2015. Learn more. 8, 10 
99.4% of employees, including senior  executives, completed Integrity at HP  training, as well as all members of our  Board of Directors. Learn more. 
with our strategic partners provide support  
for affected communities. Our aim is to  
support thriving communities with greater   
equality, opportunity, and sustainability for  
everyone, everywhere. 
Our mission 
Unlock educational and  economic opportunity through  the power of technology. 
Improve the vitality and  resilience of our local  communities. 
How we re  driving progress 
HP has a global footprint, with operations  
around the globe and customers, partners,  
and suppliers worldwide. We embrace the  
opportunity and responsibility to positively  
impact the communities where we live, work,  
and do business.  
Our employees contribute time, resources,  
and skills to help build vibrant, resilient,  
healthy communities. When disasters  
strike, we are there to assist HP, our  
employees, and the HP Foundation12 along  
10  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact 
Community  
Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Through corporate, Foundation and  
employee giving, we support quality  
education programs around the world.  
Access to education is a fundamental  
human right, and technology can be the  
great equalizer, connecting communities  
to a world of opportunity. Everywhere that  
learning happens, whether in the classroom,  
the faculty lab, the workplace, or the home,  
teaching and learning methods must  
be lean and flexible to prepare students  
for the future. It is also imperative for  
businesses and educational institutions to  
embrace perpetual learning and leverage  
new technologies and platforms to make  
learning a continuous cycle from classroom  
to boardroom.  
Through our products and solutions, global  
programs, and strategic partnerships, we  
are helping deliver quality technology- 
enabled learning that engages students,  
empowers educators, and unlocks economic  
opportunity. With a focus on women,  
girls, and underserved and marginalized  
populations, HP s targeted programmatic  
investments aim to address some of the key  
barriers to a truly inclusive economy. 
Enroll 1 million HP LIFE users between 2016   and 2025. 
Contribute 1.5 million employee volunteering  hours by 2025 (cumulative since the beginning  of 2016). 
Contribute  100 million in HP Foundation  and employee community giving13 by 2025  (cumulative since the beginning of 2016). 
Sustainable Impact goals 
Goal Progress in 2019 UN SDGs 
Enable better learning outcomes for 100 million  people by 2025, since the beginning of 2015. 
More than 28.7 million students and  adult learners have benefited from HP s  education programs and solutions that  advance quality learning and digital  literacy, and enable better learning  outcomes, since the beginning of 2015.  Learn more. 
214,000 users have enrolled in HP LIFE  courses since 2016. Learn more. 4, 5, 8 
HP employees have contributed  429,000 volunteer hours to local  impact projects through 2019.   Learn more. 
Giving from the HP Foundation and  employees reached  35.17 million  through 2019. Learn more. 
11  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
HP Megatrends 
Success in our everchanging world requires  
a growth mindset, clear strategy, and  
adaptable business model. Looking to the  
future, we track four big megatrends that  
will impact and transform our business as  
well as society: rapid urbanization, changing  
demographics, hyper globalization, and  
accelerated innovation. Impact points  
are where disruptive technologies meet  
megatrends to drive impact. These insights  
help us understand where the world is  
headed, giving us the opportunity to adapt,  
chart, and reinvent our own future, and in  
turn create new opportunities for HP and our  
customers and partners. Megatrends and  
technology are shaping our world in many  
See the HP Megatrends 2020 Refresh.  
Sustainable Impact 
Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
felt across industries, including retail, manufacturing, and  
education. Retail will become increasing omnichannel,  
manufacturing will become smarter and more sustainable,  
and education will shift and change as technology enables  
new learning models. 
start-ups are looking to provide more sustainable solutions,   
as consumers and businesses alike put more consideration  
into how their actions affect the planet. 
SHAPING INDUSTRIES: The impact of megatrends will be  
SHAPING THE PLANET: Established companies and new   
SHAPING CITIES: Rapid urbanization will put additional stress  
on city infrastructure and natural resources, shaping our  
cities, homes, and workplaces of the future and creating  
opportunities for smarter, more sustainable products and  
services targeted at urban consumers. 
SHAPING MARKETS: Growing cities of all sizes, megaregions,  
changing demographics, and shifting consumer preferences  
will give rise to new opportunities fueled by new markets  
and a massive number of new consumers entering the world  
economy, especially in Asia. 
Rapid urbanization               Changing demographics               Hyper globalization               Accelerated innovation 
HP Megatrends 
IMPACT POINTS 
habits are putting more demand on healthcare and forcing us  
to try and find new ways to provide better, more personalized  
healthcare outcomes, move from treatment to prevention,  
and allow healthcare to happen anywhere. 
SHAPING HEALTH: An aging population and unhealthy lifestyle  
SHAPING BUSINESS: New business models will continue  
privacy (or lack thereof), how we communicate, and what we  
eat, not to mention the homes we live in and the way we move  
from place to place, will be transformed. 
to emerge in response to new technologies and changing  
consumer preferences, while digital platforms and ecosystems  
are reshaping the business landscape, forcing companies to  
constantly reinvent themselves before they are disrupted. 
SHAPING WORK: Megatrends impact every aspect of where  
and how we work. From smaller and shared workspaces,  
to a multigenerational workforce with varying needs and  
expectations, to an increasing desire to work anytime,  
anywhere. Digital advances are leading to new, immersive  
ways of working that blend the physical and digital, augment  
workflows, and make work smarter and more automated. 
SHAPING LIFE: Our physical and mental capabilities, our  
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
12  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Goal HP s contribution 
Sustainable Impact 
See: Human rights, Supply chain responsibility  Diversity and inclusion  Community giving  and volunteerism 
HP works to grow the pipeline of diverse talent and to recruit and develop female and  diverse talent across all levels of the company. We also use our scale to influence our  suppliers and partners, encouraging them to prioritize diversity and inclusion within their  own operations. In our communities, our programs and partnerships aim to empower and  support gender equality and address some of the barriers to full participation in society. 
See: Diversity and inclusion  Community giving and volunteerism  Global education programs 
HP is building effective and innovative education technology solutions. We deploy  breakthrough technology solutions that support engaging, personalized educational  experiences  partner to develop scalable models for digital inclusion and lifelong  learning  and deliver insights that help governments create effective education and  human capital development policies and programs. We aim to enable better learning  outcomes for 100 million people by 2025, since the beginning of 2015, with a targeted  focus on women and girls, and underrepresented and otherwise marginalized groups.  
See : Community giving and volunteerism  Global education programs 
HP is investing in energy efficiency across our product portfolio and operations, and  shifting toward less GHG-intensive energy sources to power our global facilities,  including on- and off-site renewable power. We aim to reach 100% renewable electricity  use in our global operations by 2035. 
See: Supply chain responsibility: Environmental impact  Our facilities 
HP believes that all workers deserve fair treatment, safe working conditions, and freely  chosen employment. We forbid any forced, bonded, or indentured labor, involuntary  prison labor, slavery, or trafficking of persons within our supply chain, and have adopted  a broad approach to responsible minerals sourcing to help ensure there is no connection  between the materials used in HP products and armed violence or human rights  abuses. Safeguarding and empowering workers helps to create the conditions in which  individuals and economies can thrive and grow.    
See: Human rights, Supply chain responsibility  Community giving and volunteerism 
HP strives to uphold fundamental rights and freedoms of all people. We promote a  welcoming, diverse, and inclusive culture and do not tolerate discrimination of any  kind. Through our policies, programs, and partnerships, we aim to promote social and  economic inclusion for all people across our supply chain and operations and in our  communities regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, nationality, ability, military status,  religion, generation, sexual orientation, or views. 
HP supports the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and remains committed to driving progress on select goals that are closely aligned to   
our Sustainable Impact strategy. 
Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Goal HP s contribution 
HP supports the UN SDGs, the UN Global Compact, the Global Reporting Initiative, and  other global efforts to advance sustainable development. 
See: Stakeholder engagement  Human rights  Supply chain responsibility  Diversity and  inclusion  Community giving and volunteerism  Global education programs 
Through contributions from HP, the HP Foundation, and our global employees, we  aim to make a positive local impact on the communities where we live, work, and do  business. We provide financial support for communities affected by natural disasters  and emergencies, and work with expert partners to speed recovery and reconnect  vital networks. HP employees also contribute their talents, passions, and resources to  support inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable communities worldwide. 
See: Community giving and volunteerism 
HP is transforming our entire business to drive progress toward a more efficient, circular,  and low-carbon economy. We aim to develop products and solutions that keep materials  in use at their highest state of value for the longest possible time, grow the market for  recycled content, and offer robust repair, reuse, and recycling programs for our products  worldwide. In addition, we are investing in disruptive technologies such as 3D printing that  will help drive a more sustainable and inclusive Fourth Industrial Revolution. 
We are reducing GHG emissions by setting science-based emissions reduction targets for  our operations and our product portfolio and investing in the use of renewable energy  to power our operations. We work with our supplier partners and encourage them to set  their own goals and to use renewable energy whenever possible. We continue to support  coordinated global action to combat climate change, including continued action in line  with Paris Climate Accord commitments and as a signatory to We Are Still In.  
See: Footprint  Supply chain responsibility: Environmental impact: GHG emissions  Our  facilities: GHG emissions  Advancing a circular and low-carbon economy 
HP is committed to driving positive, local impact in the communities where we live, work,  and do business. Each community faces different challenges and requires different  solutions. By working closely with local partners, corporate peers, nonprofits, local  governments and others, we tailor our approach to address the unique needs and  challenges of each community to help them thrive. 
See: Advancing a circular and low-carbon economy  Products and solutions portfolio 
Recognition 
HP is recognized as one of the world s most sustainable companies. 
     World s Most Ethical Companies  and  Ethisphere  names and marks are registered trademarks of Ethisphere LLC.   Reprinted with permission of Barron s.    Reprinted with permission of The Wall Street Journal. 
13  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact 
Ranked 6th on the 2020 list of the  
100 Most Sustainable U.S. Companies 
Listed 1st in inaugural ranking Placed 5th in ranking of 100 Best  
One of the first companies to receive  
a Platinum CSR rating 
Ranked 11th on list, with 5 stars in  
social responsibility 
Named for the 4th year in a row  
to Global 100 Most Sustainable  
Corporations in the World list 
Recognized as a leading company by  
Working Mother magazine 
Included in the 2019 Top Veteran- 
Friendly Companies list 
Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
With 2019 rating, listed on the   
World Index for the 8th time in a row 
Ranked 12th on 2020 list with a  
perfect 10 10 for environment, social,  
and governance performance 
Included on the FTSE4Good Index  
every year since 2003 
Recognized for continued  
commitment to delivering product  
energy efficiency for 3rd year in a row 
One of the 2020 World s Most   
Ethical Companies     
Recognized on 2020 DiversityInc   
Top 50 Companies for Diversity list 
Scored 100% for 4th year in a row 
One of only five companies globally to  
rank on the CDP Climate, Forests, and  
Water  A  Lists and make the Supplier  
Engagement Leaderboard  
Corporate Citizens 1st in the Climate  
Change pillar 
Recognized for efforts to advance  
diversity and inclusion for 5th year   
Received SmartWay Excellence Award  
for the 6th year in a row 
Named to Forbes list for the 2nd year  
Received a score of 100% on the  
Human Rights Campaign 2020  
Corporate Equality Index 
Named a Top 50 Employer by   
Woman Engineer Magazine in 2020 
materiality assessment in 2019) build our  
collective intelligence, help us prioritize  
critical issues, and provide insights on  
emerging opportunities and risks. 
Individual functions across the company  
drive our decentralized approach, engaging  
in ways that are most relevant to their  
objectives and operations. These include  
partnerships, sponsorships, collaboration on  
industry initiatives, customer and supplier  
education, supplier capability-building  
programs, supplier audits and assessments,  
conference participation, employee  
surveys, mentoring, and more. We identify  
appropriate stakeholders based on factors  
such as expertise, willingness to collaborate,  
reputation, location, and sphere of influence. 
Stakeholder engagement 
We gain valuable insight through our  
regular engagement with a range of  
stakeholders including employees,  
investors, suppliers, customers, peer  
companies, public policymakers, industry  
bodies, nongovernmental organizations  
(NGOs), sector experts, and others.  
These interactions (including our updated  
14  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact 
Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Examples include: 
  Circular economy: Through the Ellen  
  Climate change: We engage in initiatives  
  Data and product security: HP  
  Diversity and inclusion: We partner with  
MacArthur Foundation Circular Economy  
100, we collaborate to drive progress  
toward a more circular materials- and  
energy-efficient future. See Advancing  
Alliance, RE100, CDP Supply Chain,  
a circular and low-carbon economy   
Regenerate natural systems  Products  
and solutions portfolio. 
focused on increasing support for clean  
energy and combating climate change,  
including Renewable Energy Buyers  
WWF Climate Savers, and the Step Up  
Declaration alliance. See Footprint  Supply  
chain responsibility: Environmental  
impact  Our facilities  Create a low- 
carbon future. 
participates in cybersecurity  
organizations, boards, and or advisory  
boards, including IEEE, ISA, ISACA, (ISC)2,  
ISSA, NIST, SANS. See Product security  
and privacy. 
UN Women to advance education for  
  Human rights: We engage in multi- 
  Paper and printed material: We engage  
of Conduct for Business. See Diversity  
women and girls, as well as supporting  
Human Rights Campaign s Business  
Coalition for the Equality Act related to  
LGBTQ  workplace rights and the United  
Nations Human Rights Office Standards  
and inclusion. 
stakeholder collaborations, including  
the Responsible Business Alliance,  
the Leadership Group for Responsible  
Recruitment, and the Advisory Board  
of Social Accountability International,  
to advance progress in this area. See  
Human rights and HP 2019 Human Rights  
Progress Report. 
through the HP Sustainable Forests  
improve responsible management of  
forests (among other objectives), and  
work with WWF's Global Forest   Trade  
Network-North America (GFTN-NA), the  
Forest Stewardship Council , and our  
suppliers to ensure the fiber we use is  
responsibly sourced. See Regenerate  
natural systems and Paper and forestry  
Collaborative to protect, restore, and  
Many other examples of HP s stakeholder  
engagement are included throughout   
this report. 
  Privacy: Our privacy and government  
  Sustainable product design: We share  
  Sourcing and supply chain labor  
relations teams work with policymakers  
to support robust and globally  
interoperable privacy and data protection  
regulations. See Government relations. 
our leading practices across the industry,  
including by contributing to standards  
development that impact product  
sustainability. HP serves on the EPEAT   
Advisory Council and helped lead the  
working group to revise IEEE 1680.1,  
the standard used by EPEAT for PCs and  
displays that took effect in 2018. See  
Product certifications and disclosures. 
practices: HP takes a leading role through  
collaborations such as Responsible  
Business Alliance, Responsible Labor  
Initiative, and Responsible Minerals  
Initiative to elevate supply chain best  
practices and tackle shared challenges.  
See Supply chain responsibility: External  
collaboration. 
Governance 
We embed Sustainable Impact at all levels of  
the company. 
Our executive leadership team, led by  
our CEO, retains overall responsibility for  
Sustainable Impact as part of our business  
strategy. All members of the executive  
leadership team oversee Sustainable Impact  
targets relevant to their organizations and  
are evaluated annually against objectives  
related to Sustainable Impact, including  
diversity and inclusion. Performance against  
these and other business objectives is tied to  
total compensation. 
The HP Board of Directors  Nominating,  
Governance and Social Responsibility (NGSR)  
Committee oversees the company s policies  
and programs relating to global citizenship  
and the impact of HP s operations   
provides guidance and recommendations  
to the Board on legal, regulatory, and  
compliance matters relating to political,  
environmental, global citizenship, and  
public policy trends  and reviews the annual  
Sustainable Impact Report. The Committee  
receives regular updates on Sustainable  
Impact strategy, metrics, results, and  
key risks and opportunities. The NGSR  
Committee provides guidance, and in some  
cases approval, on strategic priorities and  
investments. 
15  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact 
Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
The performance and compensation of both  
our VP   Head of Sustainability and Product  
Compliance and our Chief Sustainable  
Impact Officer are directly associated with  
the management of HP Sustainable Impact  
and the achievement of related targets and  
metrics, both public and internal. Several  
other HP directors and managers have a  
component of total compensation (salary  
and bonus) based on responsibility for,  
and effective implementation of, corporate  
initiatives to address climate change. 
In 2018, all three of our businesses  
Personal Systems, Print, and 3D  
Printing developed and approved their  
own Sustainable Impact strategies. These  
strategies are being managed and driven  
by dedicated representatives within  
those businesses, and report to executive  
leadership on progress. The Sustainable  
Impact Steering Committee provides  
additional oversight and is made up of  
representatives from across HP s business  
units and global functions. 
Materiality 
We  periodically conduct materiality  
assessments to review relevant  
environmental, social, and governance  
issues, reconfirm our long-standing  
areas of focus, and clarify and shape our  
Sustainable Impact strategy, investments,  
and disclosure. This enables us to focus our  
efforts in the areas where we can have the  
greatest positive impact, determine any  
gaps in our approach, and identify relevant  
trends and leadership opportunities for our  
business. We have set aggressive goals  
related to several of our most material  
issues, to manage performance and drive  
long-term progress. 
In 2019, we engaged SustainAbility, an ERM  
Group company, to conduct a materiality  
assessment. Prior to this, our last full  
materiality assessment was conducted in  
2015, with a refresh in 2017. During this  
latest materiality assessment, we undertook  
a robust analysis and refined our process  
to further integrate the perspectives of  
customers, investors, and our business  
leaders, and to better reflect business risks  
and opportunities. 
As well as internal and external interviews,  
we incorporated the results of an HP  
employee survey, which invited participants  
to rank a broad range of social and  
environmental issues. More than 1,400  
employees responded of which just over  
10% indicated that the majority of their role  
is dedicated to Sustainable Impact programs  
and initiatives.   
The process also took leading reporting  
frameworks into account, including  
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  
Sustainability Reporting Standards, and the  
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  
(SASB) Technology and Communications  
Hardware Standard.  
Based on these inputs, issues were  
evaluated and ranked, and results were  
validated in two workshops reflected in a  
new materiality matrix. 
Key findings 
Our new materiality assessment reflects the  
rapidly evolving landscape of sustainability  
and social impact topics. By integrating  
inputs from outside of the core sustainability  
function, we gained fresh insights into the  
nature of our material issues, their relative  
importance to our business success, and  
where we have the greatest ability and  
opportunity to effect change. While no  
wholly new issues surfaced, we refined  
and, in some cases, broadened the scope  
of issue definitions. In other instances, we  
disentangled topics to uncover new insights. 
Five prominent themes emerged from   
the stakeholder engagement process, as  
shown at right. 
16  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact 
Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
CIRCULAR ECONOMY  
AND PLASTICS 
INFORMATION  
TECHNOLOGY   
IN SOCIETY 
DIVERSITY AND  
INCLUSION IN  
TECHNOLOGY 
HUMAN RIGHTS  
RISKS IN THE  
SUPPLY CHAIN 
ENERGY ACROSS  
THE VALUE CHAIN 
 In an effort to drive down their own carbon footprint, customers are demanding more energy-efficient  
technology offerings, which presents a clear opportunity for HP to differentiate. Stakeholders also identified  
the importance of addressing energy use and GHG emissions in the supply chain, including through  
renewable energy programs. At the same time, there is significant opportunity for the private sector to lead  
on the broader issue of climate change and increasing risks if it does not. 
Stakeholders identified the importance of broad collaboration in this area, and the potential for HP to drive  
industry leadership with respect to sustainable products, packaging, and services. HP s leading innovations  
related to closed-loop manufacturing, 3D printing, and our ocean-bound plastics initiative hold the potential  
for compelling communication and collaboration with customers, consumers, and the public. 
Society s increasing reliance on technology can spark skepticism or fear as well as optimism and opportunity.  
Applied responsibly and effectively, technology can play a critical role in stemming climate change and  
the depletion of our natural resources, enabling new products and business models designed for next- 
generation workers and aging urban consumers, delivering better and more personalized healthcare, and  
connecting people everywhere with high-quality education opportunities. 
Better innovation comes from teams of diverse people contributing their unique skills and perspectives. But  
fostering diversity and inclusion must be an active process, driven by employee recruitment and retention  
strategies, engagement and support activities, and broader pipeline development including through  
support for science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) and other education-related opportunities.  
By communicating our commitment to diversity and inclusion to customers, investors, and our future  
workforce, we can strengthen relationships and uncover new ways to partner. 
Protecting and empowering our people starts with ensuring their foundational human rights. An increasing  
focus on labor practices both within a company and throughout its supply chain from customers,  
policymakers, and investors presents an opportunity for better communication and transparency. Industry  
collaboration is required to address shared priorities and challenges in this area. 
Prominent themes 
17  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
HP 2019 materiality matrix Materiality matrix 
The matrix resulting from our materiality  
assessment maps issues by relative  
importance to sustainable development  
and to HP s business success. Issues above  
the diagonal are considered material for  
the purpose of this report. Items below the  
materiality threshold are not covered in as  
much detail, but remain important to HP.  
Our material issues list includes definitions,  
corresponding GRI Standards Topics, and the  
boundary of each Topic. 
Sustainable Impact 
Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Relative importance to sustainable development High Low 
Relative importance to HP s business success High Low 
Public policy 
   Planet     Community 
   People     Governance 
Operational waste 
Transparency and reporting 
Diversity and inclusion 
Community investment  and involvement 
Climate change 
Role of IT in society 
Circular  economy 
Human capital 
Paper and printed materials 
Human rights 
Corporate governance 
Sourcing and supply  chain labor practices 
Product  energy e iciency 
Ethics and  anti-corruption 
Data and product security 
Energy use and GHG emissions 
Product and operational health and safety 
18  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
19 Carbon and climate impact 
Appendix Products and solutions Operations Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Sustainable Impact Footprint 
The manufacturing, delivery, and use  
of HP products and solutions requires a  
substantial amount of natural resources  
and energy use. As part of our commitment  
to protecting the planet, HP measures our  
environmental footprint across the value  
chain to prioritize areas for improvement. We  
were the first company in the IT industry to  
publish a full carbon footprint and one of the  
first to disclose a complete water footprint.  
Our carbon and water footprints cover our  
entire global value chain, from suppliers1 to  
19  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
our operations and millions of customers  
worldwide. The insights we gain through this  
process help us to continually improve and  
create positive and sustainable impact on  
the planet, our people, and the communities  
where we live, work, and do business.  
The science in these areas is clear, the need  
to act is urgent, and the role of business is  
critical. This is why we have set ambitious  
GHG emissions reduction goals across the  
value chain to drive progress. Our Scope 1,   
Scope 2, and Scope 3 GHG emissions  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
 See additional detail about GHG emissions from product use. 
Chain, and WWF Climate Savers. 
classification of our Scope 1 and 2 target  
as consistent with levels required to keep  
global warming to 1.5 C.  
We also provide suppliers incentives  
to set and meet their own goals. The  
environmental criteria we use for supplier  
management include science-based GHG  
emissions reduction targets and third-party  
verification of GHG emissions. To extend our  
influence within and beyond our industry, we  
join leading companies in GHG goal-setting  
and reduction efforts, including Renewable  
Energy Buyers Alliance, RE100, CDP Supply  
reduction goals have been validated by the  
Science Based Targets initiative, including  
Materials extraction through manufacturing 
20,900,000 
Print  3,800,000 (18%) 
Personal systems  17,100,000 (82%) 
Products and solutions (49%) Operations (1%) Supply chain (50%) 
300,000 100,000 
Capital goods 
Personal systems  2,000,000 (87%) 
Print  300,000 (13%) 
Upstream energy production 
Transport Facilities Transportation fleet 
Carbon and climate  impact  
We strive to reduce the climate impact of  
our supply chain, operations, and products  
and solutions. HP s carbon footprint in  
2019 equaled 46,785,800 tonnes of CO2e,  
5% more than in 2018. A 12% increase in  
product manufacturing emissions due  
largely to business growth and changes in  
the mix of key personal systems products  
and components more than offset a 3%  
reduction in product use phase emissions  
driven by improved product energy efficiency.  
182,500 33,300 70,000 200,000 
HP carbon footprint, 2019 
46,785,800 tonnes CO2e  
Business travel Employee commuting 
See also:  
  Full list of our GHG emissions reduction  
  Full carbon footprint data for 2015 2019. 
  Description of our methodology in the   
  GHG emissions reduction initiatives across  
22,500,000 
Product use  Product end of service 
goals and progress. 
HP carbon accounting manual. 
our business: Supply chain, Our facilities,  
and Products and solutions. 
Paper use in HP printers 9,200,000 (41%) 
Cartridges and other print supplies 2,100,000 (9%) 
Print (electricity) 2,300,000 (10%) 
Personal systems (electricity)  8,900,000 (40%) 
200,000 De minimis De minimis 
Buildings leased to others 
Investments 
20  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
consecutive year. Learn more. 
Triple CDP  A  score and  supplier engagement  leadership  
HP has achieved a triple  A  score  
for transparency and action on  
climate, forests, and water, and  
has also been recognized as a CDP  
Supplier Engagement Leader. We  
were named to the CDP Climate  
 A  list for the sixth year in a row,  
for our actions to cut emissions,  
mitigate climate risk, and develop  
the low-carbon economy. For  
the second time, we achieved  
an  A  score for our initiatives to  
address water security and forest  
commodity risk. Our inclusion on  
the CDP Supplier Engagement  
Leaderboard is for the fourth  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Governance 
Our Board of Directors  Nominating,  
Governance, and Social Responsibility  
(NGSR) Committee is responsible for  
overseeing HP s sustainability initiatives.  
The NGSR may review, assess, report, and  
provide guidance to management and the  
Board regarding HP s policies, programs,  
and goals relating to sustainability issues,  
including those related to climate change.  
Learn more. 
Transforming our business to drive a more  
efficient, circular, and low-carbon economy  
addresses the imperatives presented  
by climate change and is central to HP s  
Sustainable Impact strategy. Alongside  
setting GHG emissions reduction goals  
Many parts of the world grapple with the  
availability and quality of water, and HP  
is committed to calculating, disclosing,  
and reducing water use across our global  
value chain. In 2019, our water footprint  
less than 2018.1 This resulted from a  
equaled 249,030,000 cubic meters, 3%  
based on a combination of data sources.  
Gauging the potential impact to our  
business of physical and transition risks and  
opportunities, this assessment will inform  
our strategy and management practices  
moving forward. In 2020, we are engaging  
to drive progress toward lowering the  
impact of our business, HP faces and is  
addressing a range of climate-related risks  
and opportunities across our value chain.  
The table on page 21 provides examples of  
our approach, including adapting how we  
design and make our products and solutions,  
manage our operations, engage with and  
incentivize suppliers, and serve customers.  
In late 2019 and early 2020, we undertook  
a company-wide climate risk assessment,  
including climate scenario analysis. The  
scenario analysis looked out to 2030 and  
2050, utilizing business-as-usual1 and 1.5 C  
reduction in indirect water consumption  
from electricity generation and paper  
production associated with HP product  
use as well as, to a lesser degree, reduced  
water consumption associated with HP s  
global operations (see Create a low-carbon  
reductions were driven by improved energy  
efficiency, use patterns including duplexing  
rates and print volumes, and a shift toward  
smaller form factor desktops.   
future and Our facilities). Product use phase  
mean temperature increase2 scenarios  
actions. We plan to provide more information  
on the identified risks and opportunities, our  
actions to address them, and the impact on  
our business in future reporting. 
business stakeholders to review the  
assessment findings and determine relevant  
Risks and  opportunities 
HP includes climate change among other  
environmental, social, and business risks  
considered in our annual Enterprise Risk  
Management process. We manage climate- 
related risks and opportunities on an  
ongoing basis as part of relevant functional  
risk assessment and management activities  
throughout the company.  
See the table on page 21. 
  Full water footprint data for 2015 2019. 
  Description of our methodology in the   
  Water use reduction initiatives across our  
HP water accounting manual. 
business: Supply chain, Our facilities, and  
Products and solutions. 
21  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Transition risks in  regulations Impact of current or potential  product energy efficiency  regulations or standards as  well as carbon pricing and  energy cost 
Opportunity Description Identification, assessment, and management3 
Business resilience Increase energy efficiency and  use of renewable energy in HP  and supplier operations 
Risk Description Identification, assessment, and management3 
Transition risks in  technology and markets Changing customer  expectations and requirements 
Products and services Increased demand for products  and services with lower GHG  emissions 
Acute physical risks Impact of extreme weather- related events on HP, supplier  operations, and transportation  infrastructure networks 
Markets Expand or create solutions to  access new markets  
Chronic physical risks Impact on HP facilities,  workforce, and suppliers  from long-term changes in  mean temperature, mean  precipitation, sea level, etc. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
HP develops products and services that have lower GHG emissions through research and development (R D),  Design for Sustainability, and innovations  that advance progress toward a circular economy. In addition to energy efficiency, circular design innovations in increased use of closed loop and recycled  materials, product-based services, and improved product repairability across our portfolio support significant energy, resource, and carbon efficiency gains  and reduce life cycle GHG emissions. 
HP incorporates preparation for business impacts from extreme weather events into its business continuity planning and testing.  
HP s Supply Chain Visualization tool monitors our global operations and supply chain in real time for acute risks and disruptions, including climate-related  extreme weather, earthquakes, political upheaval, and other risks. This tool enables rapid situational assessment, faster response, and improved business  resilience. 
HP uses climate risk analytics software to assess acute and chronic physical risks to HP facilities, our workforce, and final assembly suppliers, and to identify  hot spots and key risk drivers. This information informs initiatives in workforce planning, facilities management, and supplier engagement. 
We conduct additional annual water risk assessments across our global operations and supply chain to identify sites exposed to risks related to water scarcity,  quality, availability, and access, stemming from climate change. 
HP initiatives and investments in energy and fuel efficiency, increased use of renewable energy and electric vehicles, and reduction of GHG emissions, water,  and waste increase the resilience of our business operations and improve our readiness for the transition to a low-carbon economy. 
HP engages with suppliers and product transportation providers to track, report, and reduce GHG emissions, improve energy and fuel efficiency, set goals, and  improve broader environmental performance. 
The shift from analog to digital production in the publishing, packaging, and manufacturing sectors presents opportunities to reduce waste, physical  inventories, and GHG emissions associated with traditional technologies. HP has expanded its industrial printing solutions to food packaging and textiles and  continues to innovate to increase productivity while decreasing printing-related waste. In additive manufacturing, HP is leveraging its long-standing leadership  in 2D printing to deliver 3D printing at production scale, helping to transform entire industries and foster a more sustainable, low-carbon Fourth Industrial  Revolution with digital manufacturing. 
HP tracks and reviews current and emerging product regulations, standards development, and regulatory trends to inform our product development roadmap  and policy advocacy agenda. We engage in policy advocacy and standards development and take a proactive approach to making products that meet or exceed  product energy efficiency regulations and standards to maintain market access. 
In our operations, HP tracks fuel energy and carbon pricing regulations and analyzes related impacts on our business. We generate an annual inventory  of energy consumption and GHG emissions across all facilities and hold quarterly reviews to assess both progress toward our goals and opportunities for  improvement. We invest in new processes and technology to mitigate higher energy costs through energy efficiency and renewable energy. 
HP engages with suppliers and product transportation providers to track, report, and reduce GHG emissions, improve energy and fuel efficiency, set goals, and  improve broader environmental performance. 
HP s Design for Sustainability program ensures that factors impacting environmental performance, including product energy efficiency and carbon footprint,  are considered in the product design phase. 
HP prioritizes and pursues product eco-label certifications to maintain market access, meet customer requirements, and pursue competitive advantage. 
HP applies LEED v4 Gold standards and pursues other locally equivalent green building certifications to improve facility efficiency and resiliency. 
Addressing climate-related risks and opportunities 
Carbon footprint (Scopes 1 3)  
22  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
GHG emissions from operations   [tonnes CO2e] 388,700 328,400 249,200 229,600 215,800 
GHG emissions intensity    [tonnes CO2e     million of net revenue] 7.6 6.8 4.8 3.9 3.7 
GHG emissions by scope [tonnes CO2e] 
Americas 274,400 174,500 54,700 51,500 49,600 
Asia Pacific and Japan 53,600 93,000 128,800 111,900 108,300 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 60,700 60,900 65,700 66,200 57,900 
Scope 1 emissions, by region 66,900 60,700 66,200 65,900 61,900 
Scope 1 emissions, by type 
Transportation fleet  32,700 29,600 31,400 32,200 33,300 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 10,600 10,100 13,100 15,300 13,400 
Asia Pacific and Japan 1,500 1,900 1,100 1,800 1,400 
Americas 54,800 48,700 52,000 48,800 47,100 
Natural gas 28,800 28,100 29,400 29,300 23,800 
Diesel gas oil LPG     800 200 400 100 200 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Asia Pacific and Japan 100 0 200 0 0 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 0 
Americas 700 200 200 100 200 
Americas 26,400 23,200 23,700 22,700 22,800 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 6,000 6,100 7,400 9,100 10,200 
Asia Pacific and Japan 300 300 300 400 300 
Americas 23,300 22,600 23,500 22,200 20,500 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 4,400 3,900 5,300 5,700 2,200 
Asia Pacific and Japan 1,100 1,600 600 1,400 1,100 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
Scope 2 (market-based method)     
Scope 2 emissions, by type 321,800 267,700 183,000 163,700 153,900 
Scope 2 emissions, by region 321,800 267,700 183,000 163,700 153,900 
District cooling and heating  (purchased) for operations 0 0 900 1,300 1,000 
Carbon dioxide (CO2)    57,100 
Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) 2,900 2,700 4,600 3,700 3,500 
Purchased electricity for operations 321,800 267,700 182,100 162,400 152,900 
Asia Pacific and Japan 52,100 91,100 127,700 110,100 106,900 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 50,100 50,800 52,600 50,900 44,500 
Americas 219,600 125,800 2,700 2,700 2,500 
Refrigerants (hydrofluorocarbons  (HFCs))   1,700 100 400 600 1,100 
Methane (CH4)    100 
Nitrous Oxide (N2O)    200 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 900 1,300 1,000 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 0 
Americas 0 0 0 0 0 
Asia Pacific and Japan 52,100 91,100 126,800 108,800 105,900 
Americas 219,600 125,800 2,700 2,700 2,500 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 50,100 50,800 52,600 50,900 44,500 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 0 
Americas 2,900 2,700 4,600 3,700 3,500 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 0 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 200 100 400 500 1,000 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 0 
Americas 1,500 0 0 100 100 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
23  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Scope 3  [tonnes CO2e]  36,250,000 35,860,000 40,770,000 44,470,000 46,570,000 
Scope 2 (location-based method) 
Upstream energy production  (category 3)    100,000 100,000 100,000  100,000  100,000  
Upstream leased assets (category 8)      De minimis De minimis De minimis De minimis De minimis 
Capital goods (category 2)  200,000 200,000 200,000  200,000  300,000  
Processing of sold products (category 10)  De minimis De minimis De minimis De minimis  De minimis  
Waste generated in operations  (category 5)  De minimis      De minimis  De minimis De minimis De minimis 
Business travel (category 6)    50,000 60,000 70,000 70,000 70,000 
Employee commuting (category 7)  200,000 200,000 200,000 200,000 200,000 
Materials extraction through  manufacturing (category 1  also see  Greenhouse gas emissions on page 42) 
Transport (categories 4 and 9  also see  Product transportation on page 43)    1,300,000 1,300,000 1,500,000  1,800,000  2,300,000  
Scope 2 emissions, by region 298,200 221,000 265,100 252,300 226,400 
Scope 2 emissions, by type 298,200 221,000 265,100 252,300 226,400 
Purchased electricity for operations 298,200 221,000 264,200 251,000 225,400 
District cooling and heating  (purchased steam) for operations 0 0 900 1,300 1,000 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 900 1,300 1,000 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 0 
Americas 206,400 90,900 80,000 71,600 67,100 
Asia Pacific and Japan 52,100 91,100 115,800 119,100 111,000 
Americas 0 0 0 0 0 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 39,700 39,000 69,300 61,600 48,300 
Americas 206,400 90,900 80,000 71,600 67,100 
Asia Pacific and Japan 52,100 91,100 114,900 117,800 110,000 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 39,700 39,000 69,300 61,600 48,300 
15,300,000 14,700,000 16,500,000  18,600,000 20,900,000 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
    Scope 2 GHG emissions used to calculate this category were determined using the location-based method.   
    See additional detail about GHG emissions from product use. Data from 2017 2019 better reflect average laser printer paper  usage. This represented the majority of the increase compared to 2015 and 2016. 
     Emissions-intensity values were calculated using HP s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and Scope 1 and  Scope 2 GHG emissions.  
      HP does not estimate or extrapolate diesel use for nonreporting sites.  
    CO2e emissions associated with CH4 and N2O account for less than 1% of total CO2e emissions in this category.  
     This data was updated August 22, 2020, to correct a calculation error that resulted in inaccurate data in the report published   June 24, 2020. The total for 2019 of refrigerants, PFCs, carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, and methane varies by less than 1% from  Scope 1 emissions, by region, due to rounding. 
     These figures are based on product life cycle assessment-based estimates. They use a combination of HP-specific and industry  data, and include additional upstream and downstream transport related to our products. This data may differ from data  reported by product transportation suppliers that HP contracts to deliver our products, as presented on pages 43 and 51. 
    Total includes HP s reported values for Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based method emissions in table.   
     Data in this section uses the market-based method. Due to the availability and feasibility of acquiring the data, the company only  obtained supplier-specific emission rates for its Boise, Idaho  Indianapolis, Indiana  and Palo Alto and San Bernardino, California,  United States, sites. 
    To calculate Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 emissions, HP has followed the principles outlined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.  Additional details on calculations and methodology can be found in the HP carbon accounting manual. Taking into account the  separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years relates to supply chain, operations,  and products and solutions associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. HP selected 2015 as its baseline  because it provided a year-over-year comparison for HP Inc. when it first reported as a separate company for 2016 following the  separation of Hewlett Packard Company in November 2015. 2015 continues to serve as base year for several HP goals as well.  Scope 1 GHG emissions include CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, and PFCs. No biogenic emissions are present in this category. Scope 2 GHG  emissions include CO2, CH4, and N2O. No biogenic emissions are present in this category. Scope 3 GHG emissions:  
    For 2015 and 2016, we calculated ozone-depleting substances emissions by tracking sites that reported refrigerant replacement  due to leakage, and applied an intensity factor (based on those actual quantities) for nonreporting sites. In 2017, HP transitioned  to a system that tracks all refrigerant invoices company-wide, directly accounting for facilities  refrigerant leakage and use and  eliminating the need for extrapolation. 
  Business travel (Category 6) includes CO2, CH4, and N2O, and represented 0.10% of our Scope 3 emissions in 2019.  
  Capital goods (Category 2), Waste generated in operations (Category 5) and Upstream leased assets (Category 8) include CO2,  CH4, N2O, and HFCs, and represented 0.6% of our Scope 3 emissions in 2019.  
  Materials extraction through manufacturing (Category 1), Transport (Categories 4 and 9), Product use (Category 11), and  Product end of service (Category 12) include CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, and NF3, and represented approximately 99% of  our Scope 3 emissions in 2019. Biogenic emissions are present and captured in the life cycle assessment of paper consumed  during customer printer use (Category 11).  
  Processing of sold products (Category 10) is de minimis. 
  Franchises (Category 14) is not applicable. 
  Employee commuting (Category 7), Buildings leased to others (Category 13), and Investments (Category 15) include CO2, and  represented 0.4% of our Scope 3 emissions in 2019.  
  Upstream energy production (Category 3) includes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, and PFCs, and represented 0.1% of our Scope 3  emissions in 2019.  
Franchises (category 14)  N A  N A  N A  N A  N A  
Buildings leased to others (category 13)  De minimis  De minimis  De minimis De minimis De minimis 
Product end of service (category 12)          De minimis De minimis 200,000 200,000 200,000 
Product use (category 11) ,        19,100,000 19,300,000 22,000,000 23,300,000 22,500,000 
Investments (category 15)  De minimis  De minimis  De minimis De minimis De minimis 
Energy use 11,200,000 
Printing consumables 11,300,000 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
      HP changed its calculation methodology beginning in 2017 to avoid netted emissions from product recycling. 
    All facilities are accounted for in Scope 1 and 2. Leased furniture and equipment are included in capital goods (Category 2). 
     In 2016, we added commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, which use large amounts of paper, to our product use  footprint calculations. Total GHG emissions from product use in 2017 and 2018 differ by less than 1% from the values reported  on page 106, due to rounding. Total GHG emissions from product use in 2019 differ by less than 1.5% from the values reported  on pages 82 and 106, due to rounding. Data for 2017 through 2019 better reflect average laser printer paper usage.  Scope 3 emissions from inkjet and LaserJet printers that HP manufactures for sale and service by other original equipment  manufacturers is excluded from this data. In 2019, these printers represented less than 2.4% of HP printers manufactured in  the reporting year and consequently, their associated emissions represented less than 3.7% of the product life cycle emissions  of all HP manufactured printers. Scope 1 and 2 emissions from the manufacturing of these printers at HP operated facilities is  captured in the Scope 1 and 2 data reported in this year s report. 
     De minimis values are less than 0.25% of total Scope 3 emissions. 
24  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
    HP s global travel agency provides values which take into account the type of aircraft, passenger load, cabin class, and miles  traveled for each ticketed trip. This data also includes rail travel carrier and distance traveled. Although these values fall below  our quantitative reporting threshold of 0.25% of total Scope 3 emissions and could be reported as de minimis, we choose to  report this category due to our ability to directly track this data, our level of influence over these emissions, and stakeholder  expectations in this category. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
     Indirect water consumption from inkjet and LaserJet printers that HP manufactures for sale and service by other original  equipment manufacturers is excluded from this data. In 2019, these printers represented less than 2.4% of HP printers  manufactured in the reporting year and consequently, their associated indirect water consumption during product use  represented less than 3.5% of the product life cycle water consumption of all HP manufactured printers. Water consumption  from the manufacturing of these printers at HP operated facilities is captured in the direct water consumption data reported  in this year s report. 
      In 2016, we added commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, which use large amounts of paper, to our footprint  calculations. Data from 2017 2019 better reflect average laser printer paper usage. This represented the majority of the  increase compared to 2015 and 2016. 
    This metric reports the amount of water consumed by HP s multi-tier supply chain, and not the amount withdrawn by first-tier  suppliers as reported on page 51. Because water withdrawn can also be returned, water consumption is inherently lower. 
Water footprint  
    Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years relates  to supply chain, operations, and products and solutions associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc.  Additional details on calculations and methodology can be found in the HP water accounting manual.  
Water consumption associated with   the manufacturing of paper used by   HP customers with HP products       [cubic meters]  
Water consumed by HP suppliers in   their operations   [cubic meters]  13,900,000 12,600,000 13,400,000 15,000,000 15,100,000 
Water consumption associated with   the generation of electricity used by   HP suppliers [cubic meters]  
Water consumption associated with   the generation of electricity used by   HP products    [cubic meters]  
Water consumption in HP operations   [cubic meters]  3,953,000 3,534,000 3,243,000 3,406,000 2,930,000 
Water consumption associated with   the generation of electricity used in   HP operations [cubic meters]  
106,900,000 103,300,000 96,400,000 106,100,000 99,900,000 
46,800,000 52,900,000 84,900,000 88,700,000 87,100,000 
34,800,000 31,800,000 34,300,000 38,400,000 38,600,000 
3,100,000 2,600,000 2,800,000 2,600,000 2,400,000 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
Integrity and   human rights 
26 Ethics and anti-corruption 
28 Human rights 
30 Privacy 
33 Government relations 
25  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Appendix Products and solutions Operations Supply chain responsibility Footprint Sustainable Impact Integrity and human rights 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
We expect everyone at HP to meet the  
highest ethical standards and to treat others  
with integrity, respect, and fairness. A strong  
commitment to our values underpins our  
efforts, reinforced by in-depth training  
and communication, and upheld through  
targeted policies and strong governance. 
HP is committed to complying with all  
applicable laws and regulations everywhere  
we operate. We require ethical conduct by  
our suppliers and partners, and use our scale  
and influence to drive progress across the  
broader IT industry. See Human rights and  
Supply chain responsibility. 
Training and  communication 
Our annual training on Integrity at HP, our  
employee code of conduct, covers key  
policies, procedures, and high-risk issues  
that employees might face, and incorporates  
scenarios based on actual investigations.  
Each year, all employees are required to  
complete this training, including content  
on anti-corruption, conflicts of interest,  
accurate business records, and anti- 
retaliation. In 2019, we added manager- 
specific content to ensure that managers are  
26  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
aware of their responsibilities in reinforcing  
HP s commitment to ethical behavior. During  
the year, all members of HP s Board of  
Directors received Integrity at HP content  
relevant to their position and certified that  
they had read it.  
Regular training, newsletters, and  
coffee talks help to reinforce the values  
and content outlined in Integrity at HP.  
Employees can also access Integrity  
Central, a comprehensive library of ready- 
to-use collateral on key ethics topics, with  
toolkits, posters, infographics, training  
materials, and scenarios. In 2019, the Ethics  
Office continued to expand the content  
available in Integrity Central, adding  
scenarios for use in training materials, and  
growing the library of translated toolkits  
and infographics. The Office also recognized  
ETHICS TRAINING GOAL 
Maintain greater than 99% completion  
rate of annual Integrity at HP training  
among active HP employees and the  
Board of Directors 
PROGRESS IN 2019  99.4% 
of employees, including senior executives,  
completed Integrity at HP training, as well  
as all members of our Board of Directors 
Integrity and human rights 
 As of January 31, 2020. 
See Governance information online, including the board s composition, committees and  
charters, as well as our company bylaws and Corporate Governance Guidelines. 
Board of Directors Audit Committee Provides non-executive input and guidance to the Ethics and Compliance O ice. 
Board of Directors  The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing ethics and compliance at HP.  The board consists of 12 directors, and Chip Bergh is the Chairman. All members are independent directors, excluding Enrique Lores, President and Chief Executive O icer, HP Inc. 
Specific responsibilities include oversight of Integrity at HP, coordination of  the company s Compliance Assessment Program, management of anti-corruption and privacy, and the design and management of processes that prevent, mitigate, and remediate all related business impacts. 
0 20 40 60 80 100 
Ethics and compliance governance at HP 
Manages ethical issues across our global operations. 
Ethics and Compliance O ice (within Global Legal A airs) 
Ethics and Compliance Committee Composed of HP executives, and provides oversight and guidance on the design and implementation of our ethics and compliance program. 
three Ethics Champions employees who  
showed outstanding ethical leadership and  
modeled HP values. 
Reporting concerns 
We make it easy for our employees and  
third parties to ask questions or report  
ethics concerns about the broad range of  
environmental, social, and governance  
issues. Reporting avenues include email, an  
internal online form, a global 24-hour toll- 
free phone line with translation, text (in the  
United States), mail, or in person. We offer  
anonymous reporting options where allowed  
by law. At any time, employees can also  
reach out to their supervisor or more senior  
27  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
   World s Most Ethical Companies  and  Ethisphere  names and marks are registered trademarks of Ethisphere LLC. 
HP has been recognized as one of the 2020 World s Most  Ethical Companies   by the Ethisphere Institute. The  in-depth assessment includes more than 200 questions  on culture, environmental and social practices, ethics  and compliance activities, governance, diversity, and  initiatives to support a strong value chain. This honor validates that our shared  values are lived out through our commitment to people, planet, and community, and  always putting integrity first. It demonstrates that conducting business with integrity  is the core of HP s culture. 
At HP, we believe that good ethics is good business. Ethisphere has found that  companies awarded the World s Most Ethical Companies designation have on average  outperformed the market. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
managers under HP s Open Door Policy, seek  
advice from internal ethics and compliance  
experts, or consult local Integrity at HP  
teams or Integrity at HP liaisons. HP does  
not tolerate retaliation against anyone who  
raises a concern or question in good faith.  
In 2019, HP launched a new ethics case  
reporting and management tool that  
provides centralized and automated case  
workflow, greater visibility to live data,  
and opportunities to interact with the  
investigation team where appropriate. As of  
January 2020, this is the main mechanism  
for employees and third parties to report  
integrity concerns within HP. 
Integrity and human rights 
Total number of reported items in 2019: 172 
   Includes allegations of commercial bribery, kickbacks, and  Global Business Amenities Policy violations, as well as  alleged corruption related to foreign public officials. 
Investigating concerns 
Suspected violations of our code of business  
conduct damage trust in HP. We take all  
alleged violations seriously, respond quickly,  
and take disciplinary or remedial actions  
when appropriate, including additional  
coaching, written warnings, and in serious  
Human resources 23% 
Anti-corruption  11% 
Competition 1% 
Customer 1% 
Workplace security 3% 
Misuse of assets 11% 
Brand protection channel 8% 
Conflicts of interest 7% 
Financial and public reporting 6% 
Inaccurate records 5% 
Confidentiality 4% 
Items reported to HP global  Integrity at HP team or other  compliance functions in 2019 
percentage of total 
cases, termination.  Serious violations may  
have significant impact on an employee s  
Total Rewards package (subject to local  
labor laws and where legally permissible). 
When needed, representatives from our  
legal, controllership, and human resources  
teams conduct local investigations.  
Escalated allegations are passed to a  
dedicated global integrity investigations  
team. HP s investigation process continues  
to evolve, with improved resources and  
technology to perform investigation-related  
functions in-house and deal with concerns  
promptly. Additionally, our new global case  
management tool (outlined above) enables  
us to identify emerging trends in ethics  
violations and determine where additional  
controls may be needed. 
Anti-corruption 
Corruption disrupts fair competition and is  
at odds with HP values. We do not tolerate  
corrupt behavior of any kind, including  
bribery and kickbacks. 
Our Anti-Corruption Policy and compliance  
program require our employees, partners,  
and suppliers to comply with all applicable  
national laws and regulations including the  
U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the  
UK Bribery Act. Although HP is not certified  
to an anti-corruption management system,  
all of our operational sites and subsidiaries  
are required to follow HP s Anti-Corruption  
Policy and related program and procedures  
(or a comparable subsidiary-level policy and  
compliance program).  
Risk assessment,   third-party due  diligence, and audits 
HP conducts regular internal assessments  
of corruption-related risks across 100% of  
our global operations, including detailed  
reviews of the company s global policies  
and processes applicable to all business  
units and global functions worldwide. HP  
also uses internal data and Transparency  
International s Corruption Perceptions Index  
to detect high-risk regions and assess risks  
related to our business. In 2019, we adopted  
new data analytics tools and processes  
to help HP better monitor and mitigate  
potential risk from its public sector business. 
HP also periodically retains outside experts  
to assess our anti-corruption policies and  
programs  the last such external assessment  
was performed in 2017. We benchmark our  
approach against peer companies to identify  
best practices in areas including operational  
procedures, employee education, and  
supplier and partner training and monitoring. 
Complementing these assessments, HP  
conducts regular audits focused on potential  
28  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
corruption risks, including audits of our own  
operations. These involve end-to-end review  
of compliance policies and processes with  
appropriate testing. 
We also perform ongoing risk-based due  
diligence of third parties that support HP s  
business, including channel partners, sales  
intermediaries, suppliers, and lobbyists. 
Training and  communication  
We deliver comprehensive anti-corruption  
content to all employees, through annual  
Integrity at HP training, and also to all  
members of the Board of Directors. We  
also communicate year-round to reinforce  
policies, controls, and training.  
In addition, we provide targeted anti- 
corruption training to employees who may  
pose a corruption risk to the company,  
including those that support HP s public  
sector business. In 2018, over 18,000  
employees (99% of the at-risk employees  
assigned) completed this training: 32% were  
in the Americas, 39% in Asia Pacific and  
Japan, and 29% in Europe, Middle East, and  
Africa. To better align HP s internal training  
schedule, we postponed the targeted  
anti-corruption training that was originally  
scheduled for September 2019 to January  
2020. In 2019, we delivered 20 face-to-face  
Integrity and human rights 
and virtual sessions on anti-corruption to  
select employees.  
More than 3,100 employees (nearly 92% of  
the relevant employee base) also received  
training in 2018 on the requirements of  
doing business with the U.S. government.  
This training was again conducted in March  
April of 2020.   
In 2019, HP managed the integration of  
newly acquired businesses and employees  
into HP s anti-corruption program, which  
included online anti-corruption training for  
over 350 new employees. 
We communicate HP s anti-corruption  
standards and requirements to 100% of our  
business partners and suppliers and other  
third parties such as consultants through  
contractual terms and conditions as well as  
our Partner Code of Conduct and Supplier  
Code of Conduct. Generally, all HP partners  
and suppliers are required, respectively, to  
meet HP s Partner and Supplier Codes of  
Conduct. Partners determined to represent  
higher risk receive training in addition. 
Requirements for mitigating anti-corruption  
risk associated with charitable giving are  
communicated to employees through the  
HP Global Charitable Contributions Policy,  
and risks are mitigated through the grant- 
making process. 
Human   rights 
HP s stance on upholding human rights is  
clear and uncompromising. We champion  
respect for human rights in our operations,  
supply chain, and in relation to our products.  
Using our scale and influence, we promote  
positive changes so that business and  
society can thrive.  
Empowering our employees and protecting  
their safety and health are core priorities.  
Paying HP employees fairly and equitably,  
regardless of their gender, race, or other  
protected characteristics, is equally  
fundamental to who we are. 
Diversity and inclusion is essential to  
delivering transformational business  
results. In our workplace, industry, and the  
communities where we live, work, and do  
business, we promote a welcoming, diverse,  
and inclusive culture and do not tolerate  
discrimination or harassment of any kind. 
HP recognizes the fundamental importance  
of privacy, security, and data protection to  
our employees, customers, and partners  
worldwide. We focus on providing protections  
that exceed legal minimums and on deploying  
consistent, rigorous policies and procedures,  
giving people confidence when sharing  
information with us and using our products. 
HP ranked third among the 40 information and communications technology (ICT)  manufacturing companies assessed in the 2019 Corporate Human Rights Benchmark  (CHRB), which evaluated approximately 200 of the largest publicly traded companies  in the world on a set of human rights indicators. Our score of 42 out of 100 exceeded  the average scores of 18 in our sector and 24 for all participating companies. However,  we continue working to improve our program and aspire to be ranked among the  other non-ICT industry leaders in the future.  
Through our supply chain responsibility  
program, we focus on improving labor  
conditions within supplier factories, tackling  
industry-wide challenges such as forced  
labor and conflict minerals, and building  
essential skills and capabilities. 
Education is a fundamental human right. Our  
global education programs are designed to  
enable better learning outcomes for millions  
through technology, including marginalized  
and underserved communities. When  
disaster strikes, we work fast to support  
29  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
recovery by connecting our employees and  
communities to critical services. 
We monitor emerging human rights  
expectations and best practices to continue  
leading in this area. We are committed to  
ensuring that everyone is treated with dignity,  
respect, and fairness within our own  
company and throughout our value chain. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Policies and  standards 
Through our policies and programs, we insist  
that all workers across our value chain have  
fair treatment, safe working conditions, and  
freely chosen work. 
Our Sustainable Impact and Human Rights  
Policy states our commitment to embedding  
human rights within our business policies  
and practices, as well as protecting and  
upholding human rights in collaboration  
with our suppliers and partners. It includes  
our commitment to due diligence, worker  
voice and grievance mechanisms, and  
investigation and remedy of adverse impacts  
when these arise.  
Our policies reflect international standards,  
including respecting the rights in the United  
Nations (UN) Universal Declaration of Human  
Rights (UDHR), the UN Guiding Principles  
on Business and Human Rights, the OECD  
the UN Global Compact. 
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and  
Integrity and human rights 
Responsibility (NGSR) Committee of the HP  
Board of Directors oversees human rights  
across HP, including reviewing the results  
of the annual human rights assessment  
and approving HP s annual company-wide  
modern slavery statement. The Human  
Rights Office then works with our local  
senior management team, in consultation  
with the boards of our subsidiary entities, as  
appropriate, to develop, adopt, and approve  
statements that are responsive to local  
requirements.  
HP s Chief Supply Chain Officer oversees  
implementation of our human rights  
commitments (found within our Sustainable  
Impact and Human Rights Policy) and the  
design of processes to prevent, mitigate,  
and remediate related impacts, including  
any relating to modern slavery and human  
trafficking. 
We also convene a Human Rights Council  
biannually to review the results of our  
human rights assessment and to devise a  
plan of action for continuous improvement. It  
is chaired by the head of the Human Rights  
Office, and includes senior management  
from Ethics and Investigations, Global  
Indirect Procurement, Human Resources,  
Privacy, Supply Chain Responsibility, and  
Technical Regulations.  
Governance 
The Nominating, Governance and Social  
Human rights impact assessment: During  
2019, we evaluated seven global corporate  
functions1 that have a role in respecting  
our value chain. These risks were further  
evaluated against HP s policies, processes,  
and practices to determine any gaps. This  
process was informed by desk research  
related to the industry, as well as interviews  
with internal and external leaders. The  
assessment highlighted several salient risks  
that we are now addressing through our  
human rights program:  
Learn more about how we address our  
salient risks in the HP 2019 Human Rights  
Progress Report.  
In addition, we identified several cross- 
cutting themes related to human rights  
that affect HP s activities and business  
relationships and warrant ongoing dialogue  
and collaboration. We are working to  
integrate these themes into our planning,  
programs, and training methodologies. 
the human rights of workers against the  
UDHR, to identify salient risks2 across  
  Indicators of modern slavery such as  
  Risk of unsafe working conditions and  
  Risk of forced labor, child labor, and  
retention of identity documents and  
charging of recruitment fees. 
excessive working hours at supplier sites. 
armed group conflict associated with raw  
minerals extraction. 
Due diligence and audits: Our due diligence  
commensurate to the severity and likelihood  
of the impact. It focuses on three key  
aspects: embedding responsible business  
conduct  ceasing, preventing, or remedying  
the impact  and reporting on implementation  
and results. Learn more about our due  
diligence program in the HP 2019 Human  
Rights Progress Report.  
Grievance mechanisms: We offer multiple  
channels for our employees and third  
30  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
process aims to address actual and potential  
adverse impacts in our operations and  
supply chain. This process is risk-based and  
Education   Programs and initiatives to support better learning outcomes for all people. 
Gender equality   Diversity and inclusion initiatives with employees.  
Environment   Programs to improve environmental performance and reduce impacts in  our supply chain, operations, and products and solutions. 
Privacy   Respecting human rights in the context of personal data processing and  communication interactions. See Privacy section at right.  
Themes HP s approach 
Health   Product safety by design through testing and certification programs. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
  Supplier diversity program 
  Expectations stated in the HP Supplier Code of Conduct, and supplier  capability-building programs. 
  Supply chain due diligence relevant to the HP Supplier Code of Conduct.  
  Inclusive technology to ensure products and services are easier to access  and simpler to use for people with disabilities and age-related limitations. 
Learn more.  
Cross-cutting themes 
(including senior executives), as well as  
all members of our Board of Directors,  
completed annual Integrity at HP training,  
which includes content related to human  
rights. We also provide annual training for  
relevant procurement staff. This covers  
the context of forced labor and slavery,  
identification of forced labor conditions,  
company policies and standards to combat  
modern slavery, whom to contact for help,  
and how to report related information. 
Training: In 2019, 99.4%3 of employees  
parties to ask questions and report concerns  
without fear of retaliation. Learn more. 
Integrity and human rights 
Reporting: In addition to our annual  
Sustainable Impact Report, we also provide  
information through our standalone HP 2019  
Human Rights Progress Report, and the HP  
Modern Slavery Transparency Statement  
Collaboration 
Our global reach provides us the opportunity  
to drive human rights progress worldwide.  
This includes engaging in public forums and  
multi-stakeholder partnerships, such as: 
regarding our due diligence in combating  
modern slavery.  
  Sitting on the Advisory Board of Social  
  Membership of the steering committee  
  Chairing the steering committee (through  
Accountability International, creator of  
the TenSquared program that improves  
worker health and safety. 
workers vulnerable to forced labor. 
of the Leadership Group for Responsible  
Recruitment, a group promoting  
sustainable hiring through labor agent  
training and certification. 
a cross-industry collaboration of the  
Responsible Business Alliance focused on  
2019) of the Responsible Labor Initiative,  
HP recognizes the fundamental importance  
of privacy, security, and data protection to  
our employees, customers, and partners  
worldwide. This commitment is a critical  
pillar of brand trust and increasingly a  
source of competitive advantage in an  
era of accelerated innovation, global data  
proliferation, and fast-changing regulatory  
frameworks. We build privacy and data  
protection into the design and development  
of our products, services, and operations.  
We strive to provide protections across all of  
our operations that exceed legal minimums,  
and to deploy consistent, rigorous policies  
and procedures to give our customers,  
employees, and partners confidence when  
sharing information with us and using our  
products and services. See our Privacy  
website for additional information. 
Our rigorous policies and standards are  
designed to keep personal data safe and  
respect privacy: 
  Our Privacy Statement describes our  
  We maintain internal policies and  
privacy practices, and the choices users  
can make and the rights they can exercise  
in relation to personal data. 
standards to align with international  
31  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
  Our privacy accountability and compliance  
implementing enhanced internal policies  
and procedures to address our obligations  
as a data controller and processor and to  
ensure data subject rights are respected. 
framework outlines our procedures and  
organizational controls for assessing and  
managing risks associated with collecting  
and handling personal data. It is based on  
requirements for accountability as defined  
by global laws and regulations. 
data protection and privacy principles  
worldwide that cover the data life  
cycle, and continually strengthen  
privacy protections to meet the  
requirements of changing regulations  
and evolving circumstances. This includes  
Privacy by Design 
HP s Privacy by Design approach requires that HP products, services, websites,  
systems, and applications processing personal data be designed and implemented  
only after thoughtful consideration of privacy implications. HP teams developing or  
making substantial changes in these areas must have a fully formed development  
plan  fill out a Privacy by Design questionnaire and provide any follow-up  
documentation  follow the appropriate documentation requirements based on  
type of personal data involved  consult with HP Cybersecurity on appropriate  
security measures, as required  and develop appropriate notice language with the  
Privacy Office. Our formal review process focuses on privacy as a default setting,  
incorporating key principles of data minimization, transparency of purpose, and  
technical and organizational safeguards. 
See Product security and privacy. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Privacy was included in our mandatory  
Integrity at HP annual refresher course  
in 2019, completed by 99.4%1  of HP  
employees. In addition, in 2019 privacy  
principles training was required for more  
than 18,000 employees across the company,  
  Our Data Protection Officer, together  
  HP s HIPAA Compliance Office oversees  
with HP s Privacy and Data Protection  
team, provides oversight and leadership  
for compliance, working closely with  
appointed privacy leads in business teams  
throughout the company. 
compliance with Health Insurance  
Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)  
laws where they are triggered by our  
commercial services engagements. 
Integrity and human rights 
Privacy and  data protection  compliance 
HP complies with worldwide privacy and data  
breach notification laws and regulations,  
tracks the number of substantiated  
complaints from third parties, and maintains  
an internal incident reporting process. Once a  
potential breach of personal data is identified,  
a core team including representatives  
from privacy, cybersecurity, legal, and  
communications is responsible for the  
management and communication of potential  
data breaches, including any commercial or  
legal obligations to notify customers. 
with roles involving the processing of  
personal data. During the year, we also  
offered access to online courses that provide  
additional topic and role-based training  
opportunities.  
To enhance our privacy accountability  
and compliance framework, we continued  
to implement new data management  
and record-keeping tools in 2019. We  
also continued to strengthen our well- 
established global privacy program by  
enhancing overall program governance  
through conducting internal and third- 
party assurance, formalizing privacy by  
design, and streamlining privacy impact  
assessment processes. 
   Breaches of customer privacy cover any noncompliance  with existing legal regulations and voluntary standards  regarding the protection of customer privacy related to  data for which HP is the data controller. Substantiated  complaints are written statements by regulatory or similar  official bodies addressed to the organization that identify  breaches of customer privacy, or complaints lodged with  the organization that have been recognized as legitimate  by the organization. 
Global standards  and regulatory  environment 
The secure movement of data is essential to  
our business, and as legislation continues  
to evolve, our privacy and government  
relations teams work with governments  
worldwide to develop robust and globally  
interoperable privacy regulations. See  
Government relations for more detail. 
    We believe that the increase in substantiated complaints  from outside parties was likely caused by an increase in  data subject awareness and empowerment in exercising  their rights as provided by law. 
Substantiated  complaints from  outside parties  (including customers) 
Substantiated  complaints from  regulatory or other  official bodies 
Substantiated complaints  regarding breaches of  customer privacy and losses  of customer data at HP  
2016 2017 2018 2019   
data protection authorities for our binding  
corporate rules, reflecting our high standard  
of data protection policies and procedures  
and enabling global data transfer within our  
company. HP is also self-certified under the  
EU US Privacy Shield, and we comply with  
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation s  
Cross-Border Privacy Rules. 
When developing and updating our privacy  
program, we consider global and domestic  
principles and frameworks, including: 
We are among fewer than 140  companies worldwide recognized  by EU data protection authorities for  our binding corporate rules for data  protection. 
32  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
HP relies on lawful mechanisms for data  
transfer to drive accountability across the  
organization. HP remains among fewer than  
140 companies worldwide2 recognized by EU  
  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Privacy  
  EU General Data Protection Regulation 
  Madrid Resolution on International Privacy  
  Organisation for Economic Co-operation  
  California Consumer Privacy Act 
and Development (OECD) Guidelines on  
the Protection of Privacy and Transborder  
Flows of Personal Data 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Cybersecurity 
In our industry, hostile attempts to acquire  
personal and financial information are  
constant. HP works to block these attempts  
through robust internal controls and  
external partnerships. Our Cybersecurity  
Organization provides and maintains the  
guidance, governance, processes, resources,  
and IT partner and vendor relationships  
necessary to identify unwanted access,  
security threats, and cyberattacks, and  
shield our customers  and employees   
information.  
Everyone at HP has a role and responsibility  
to help ensure information security. Our  
incident response processes and playbooks  
support security rigor and apply to a range  
of evolving industry threats. Our internal  
Cybersecurity Policy Suite provides a  
framework for the organization, governance,  
and implementation of information  
security across the company. Based on  
the Policy Suite and other information, we  
communicate with and educate employees  
about regulatory requirements, emerging  
threats, and new security practices, among  
other items.  
Our online Security Bulletins support HP s  
commitment to provide customers and  
others prompt notification and remediation  
of any vulnerabilities related to HP products  
and services. 
Integrity and human rights 
the techniques used by hostile actors, and  
how to further improve existing security  
controls and measures. During the year,  
we added a new system of record that  
helps support our company and customers  
to drive good cyber hygiene and to have  
to bring our client services into alignment  
with ISO 27001, expanding our certification  
scope in offerings such as Managed Print  
Services and Device as a Service.  
In 2019, we continued working to understand  
HP s Chief Security Advisor (CSA) belongs to  
the company s external Security Advisory  
Board and works with our security business  
unit, R D team, HP Labs, business units,  
product teams, and global functions to  
advance HP s leadership role in security. The  
CSA also leads efforts to educate HP and  
clients about security, conduct security risk  
assessments, perform analytics to establish  
security baselines,3 and create roadmaps  
certification during 2019, providing  
to continually improve performance and  
establish new baselines. We conduct  
both internal and external audits of HP  
cybersecurity systems, and annual risk  
assessments of HP cybersecurity systems  
and processes, including our information  
security management system (ISMS). 
HP s risk-based ISMS maintained ISO 27001  
assurance that HP meets the international  
standard for security of information  
systems.4 In addition, we are continuing work  
solid controls that align to regulatory and  
compliance requirements, such as the Health  
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act,  
the Payment Card Industry Data Security  
Standard, and various privacy laws. We held  
our first HP-led and hosted Client Security  
Advisory Council in September 2019. The  
Council works to drive security awareness  
and education, and provides a forum for  
collaboration and knowledge-sharing with  
our clients. 
HP did not experience any cybersecurity  
events that required disclosure during  
2019.5 When incidents do occur, the  
Cybersecurity Organization responds swiftly  
and regularly reports related activities to  
the relevant leadership.  
We conduct and participate in cybersecurity  
research to continue to uncover and identify  
cybersecurity trends and risks, and to drive  
cybersecurity innovation in our products,  
devices, services, and solutions. HP  
participates in cybersecurity organizations,  
boards, and or advisory boards, including  
IEEE, ISA, ISACA, (ISC)2, ISSA, NIST, SANS,  
and others.  
See also Product security and privacy and  
Summary of HP Security Measures.   
Government relations 
Geopolitics drives governments around the  
world to consider new policy approaches  
on issues ranging from global trade to  
regulation of emerging technologies. Related  
decisions could affect technology companies  
in new ways, particularly regarding market  
access and ensuring level playing fields for  
global competition. HP advocates for public  
policies that reflect our business priorities  
and core values. We encourage policies that  
promote innovation to benefit our customers  
and company. 
Policy priorities 
Our global Government Relations team  
leads our engagement with policymakers,  
regulators, trade associations, and peer  
companies to advance public policies  
aligned with HP s interests and values. HP  
encourages policies that support: 
33  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
  Market access through elimination of  
  Strong protection of intellectual property  
trade barriers. 
rights, with a focus on printing supplies. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Political  engagement 
We conduct all political engagements,  
including contributions to candidates, in a  
transparent, legal, and ethical manner and in  
accordance with HP s Political Contributions  
Policy and code of business conduct,  
Integrity at HP. Our U.S. Public Sector Code of  
Conduct guides ethical business interactions  
with federal, state, and local officials. 
  Advancement of HP core values, including  
  Adoption of additive manufacturing  
  Competitive tax structures and economic  
  Transparent public procurement practices. 
  Responsible stewardship of personal data. 
  Security of end-point devices.  
through public-private partnerships and  
workforce development. 
social responsibility, environmental  
incentives. 
sustainability, and diversity and inclusion. 
Integrity and human rights 
in U.S. trade associations that engage in  
lobbying activity. HP did not make any in- 
kind political donations in 2019.  
lobbying expenditures and membership  
Through corporate contributions and the  
HP Employee Political Action Committee  
(PAC), we support candidates for elected  
office using established criteria, such as site  
representation and issue alignment. We  
post detailed lists of HP Employee PAC and  
corporate contributions twice annually. HP  
does not make political contributions outside  
of the United States. We also disclose U.S.  
HP employee PAC contributions 
HP corporate political contributions  
Federal and state candidates, party committees and PACs  supporting diverse candidates  42,500  87,000  85,500 
State and local candidates and groups  299,500  300,000  111,900 
Total U.S. federal lobbying expenditures (reported quarterly  under the Lobbying Disclosure Act)  2,789,600  1,890,000  1,620,000 
In 2019, for the second year in a row, we  
earned a perfect score and tied for first  
place overall among S P 500 companies in  
the CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political  
Disclosure and Accountability. 
and tied 1st place for corporate   
political disclosure and accountability   
on the CPA-Zicklin Index 
2017 2018 2019 
Supply chain  responsibility 
35 Approach 
38 Health and safety 
39 Responsible minerals sourcing 
41 Supplier diversity 
42 Environmental impact 
45 Audit results 
34  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Appendix Products and solutions Operations Integrity and human rights Footprint Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility 
HP relies on one of the IT industry s  
largest supply chains, made up of  
hundreds of production suppliers and  
thousands of nonproduction suppliers.1 An  
35  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
ethical, sustainable, and resilient supply  
chain protects our business and brand,  
strengthens customer relationships, and  
creates opportunities to innovate.  
We insist that all workers receive fair  
treatment, freely chosen employment,  
and safe working conditions. To reduce  
environmental impact, we collaborate with  
suppliers to decrease GHG emissions, water  
use, and waste. 
We engage with suppliers in a wide range of  
ways to promote responsibility. Suppliers  
representing 95% of HP s total production  
Labor Health and safety Supplier diversity Environmental impact 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Our supply chain is complex, and we work to address  a broad range of social and environmental topics. 
Improving the lives of the people who make our products and strengthening the communities where they live and work 
Supply chain responsibility 
Responsible minerals sourcing 
For an overview of our management  
approach in this area, including areas such  
as risk assessment, policies and standards,  
continuous improvement, capability building,  
external collaboration, and reporting, see  
Our approach to a sustainable supply chain. 
supplier spend have gone through a social  
and environmental assessment, and  
suppliers representing 56% of production  
supplier spend have completed on-site  
social and environmental audits.  
The strength of our supply chain  
responsibility program enables us to meet  
and exceed customer expectations. In  
2019, more than  3.6 billion in retained,  
existing, and new sales took supply chain  
responsibility into account.2  
Supply chain responsibility 
Driving Sustainable Impact   throughout the supply chain 
We will continue to collaborate with local  
organizations to strengthen factory workers   
awareness and skills, through programs  
focused on women's leadership, peer advice,  
use of personal protective equipment, and  
other areas. Capability building for workers  
has been integral to our supply chain  
responsibility program for over a decade. 
PROGRESS IN 2019 11,000 
Put workers at the center of  
our program by offering worker  
empowerment programs 
Develop skills and improve wellbeing  
of 500,000 factory workers by 2025,  
since the beginning of 2015 
supplier factory workers participated  
in seven programs at supplier sites in  
five countries during 2019, bringing the  
total to 266,400 workers trained since  
the beginning of 2015, 53% of the way  
to our goal3 
In 2019, the factory participation rate  
was up 53% compared to our baseline.  
This increase reflects the launch of a  
supplemental program to audit health and  
safety conditions within various suppliers.  
We will continue to focus on increasing  
participation deepening engagement  
with suppliers who already have strong  
management systems and coaching smaller  
spend and sub-tier suppliers to improve the  
maturity of their sustainability management.  
supply chain sustainability programs   
by 2025, compared to 2015 
PROGRESS IN 2019  53% 
Enable suppliers to develop and  
strengthen their policies, management  
systems, and mechanisms to take  
ownership for meeting social  
and environmental compliance  
requirements and elevate performance 
Double factory participation4 in our  
increase, compared to 2015 
suppliers make the products we sell and  
several thousand nonproduction suppliers  
support our operations. We disclose the  
names and locations of the production  
suppliers that represent approximately  
95% of our manufacturing spend. Our  
products are manufactured in countries and  
territories worldwide, but over half of our  
manufacturing suppliers are based in the  
Asia Pacific region. 
In addition to this report, we disclose  
information about our supply chain  
responsibility and human rights  
performance through our annual SEC  
Conflict Minerals Report, Modern Slavery  
Transparency Statement, Report on Cobalt,  
and CDP Supply Chain disclosures. We also  
provide tailored supply chain information  
to our customers and channel partners  
to help them achieve their supply chain  
sustainability goals. 
Transparency 
From PCs to printers, HP s products rely on  
a vast network of suppliers spanning six  
continents. Approximately 845 5 production  
36  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Average sustainability scorecard results 
Sustainability Scorecards  
We summarize supplier performance across multiple dimensions using our  
Sustainability Scorecards. These are intended to incentivize suppliers and drive  
improved performance through consistent, comprehensive, and actionable  
feedback. This tool provides suppliers a score that encompasses audit performance   
environmental governance, transparency, goal setting, and performance  conflict  
contribute to a supplier s overall procurement score, which impacts the supplier s  
relationship with HP and ongoing business. Suppliers discuss their scorecard with HP  
as part of regular business performance evaluations and receive additional points if  
they demonstrate sustained improvement. We continue to expand the scope of the  
scorecard and have started implementing new criteria that increase expectations  
as well as raising the thresholds for the Preferred and Acceptable levels. In  
2019, average scores decreased due to the addition of several new suppliers to  
minerals management  and other social and environmental topics. The results  
the program. During the year, the Sustainability Scorecard applied to suppliers  
representing 78% of our production spend up from about 60% the prior year. 
2017 2016 2018 2019 
Sustainability Scorecard results 
average scores 
Supply chain responsibility 
Preferred   85%  Acceptable 65 85%  Concern   65%  
  Commodity  suppliers 
  Final assembly  suppliers 
External  collaboration 
HP takes a leading role through  
collaborations focused on elevating supply  
chain best practices and tackling shared  
challenges. 
Key relationships include: 
  Responsible Business Alliance 
  Responsible Labor Initiative  
  Responsible Minerals Initiative 
  Social Accountability International 
  U.S. EPA SmartWay  
  WWF Climate Savers 
  CDP Supply Chain program 
  Clean Electronics Production Network 
  Green Freight Asia 
  Leadership Group for Responsible  
  National Minority Supplier Development  
Recruitment 
Capability  building 
In collaboration with NGO partners and other  
external organizations, we provide programs  
designed to help suppliers continually  
improve along their sustainability journey.  
During 2019, we reached 11,000 workers  
through our capability-building programs.  
Examples of the trainings and opportunities  
we provide are listed below, seven of which  
ran during the year. In 2019, we launched  
a two-year program in collaboration with  
37  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Focus area: Leadership above and  beyond HP s requirements 
Focus area: Baseline conformance  with HP standards 
Focus area: Ongoing engagement  in key areas 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Examples of trainings and opportunities: 
   EHS awareness training    Foreign migrant worker training    RBA Code of Conduct training 
Examples of trainings and opportunities: 
   Turning Policy into Action workshop    Science Based Targets workshop      (with WWF and CDP)    Supplier Sustainability Summit  
Examples of trainings and opportunities: 
   Zero waste to landfill training    Worker wellbeing program  
worker wellbeing program will directly reach  
2,300 workers, with the potential to reach  
more than 10,000 workers.  
skills needed to grow professionally and  
personally. During the year, we completed  
assessments at three factories, developed  
an implementation plan, and administered  
a two-day ambassador training on-site. The  
Verit , an international nonprofit that  
program supports worker wellbeing by  
strengthening health and safety knowledge  
and equipping workers with the tools and  
promotes safe, fair, and legal working  
conditions in global supply chains. This  
Supply chain responsibility 
We continually deepen our understanding of  
the social and economic factors that lead to  
labor concerns, and then focus on areas of  
risk where we can have the most influence.  
We collaborate with organizations and  
government agencies with local expertise  
to promote long-term, scalable solutions.  
Our primary focus areas continue to be  
combating forced labor, protecting workers   
rights, and worker health and safety,  
including safe use of process chemicals. 
Combating  forced labor  1 
As part of our commitment to addressing  
modern slavery, we start with our own  
operations and suppliers while striving to  
collaborate more broadly in ways that drive  
positive change. Modern slavery, as defined  
in guidance under the UK Modern Slavery  
Act, can manifest itself in different ways,  
including through debt bondage, forced  
labor, and human trafficking.2 
HP is uncompromising in our expectations of  
ethical behavior by our employees, partners,  
and suppliers. In our Modern Slavery  
Transparency Statement, we discuss our  
efforts to address modern slavery during the  
fiscal year ended October 31, 2019. 
Working with U.S. truckers  to fight human trafficking 
Truckers Against Trafficking (TAT)  
sees individual truckers as vital  
eyes and ears in the fight against  
human trafficking. TAT helps to  
combat trafficking in the United  
States by educating and mobilizing  
members of the trucking and  
busing industries and coordinating  
with law enforcement agencies. 
We support innovative and  
effective initiatives such as TAT to  
combat forced labor wherever it  
exists. Most of HP s U.S. trucking  
vendors have signed up to the TAT  
initiative, and several are sponsors.  
We are one of the few shippers  
that participate directly and are  
committed to ensuring that all  
carriers moving HP products in the  
United States take the training. 
Where significant risks are identified,  
we work with suppliers and partners  
to address challenges and enact risk  
mitigation plans. As an example, in 2019  
we launched a partnership with ISSARA  
Institute, an NGO that helps tackle issues  
related to human trafficking and forced  
labor, to support the monitoring of  
recruitment processes in Myanmar. 
Protecting  workers  rights  
We communicate openly with workers and  
management in our supply chain to identify  
and understand workers  questions,  
concerns, and priorities. We train our  
procurement teams, supplier managers,  
and other employees to be vigilant and  
report instances of practices that violate  
our standards. 
We collaborate with workers and suppliers  
to ensure they understand their rights and  
responsibilities. In 2019, in collaboration  
with Verit , we held a customized workshop  
for three suppliers in Taiwan with potential  
foreign migrant worker risk. The workshop  
strengthened management s understanding  
of ethical recruitment and hiring processes. 
38  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Health and safety 
HP aspires to a world where our products  
and operations use materials and chemicals  
that cause no harm. We take a science- 
based approach to assessing the potential  
human health and environmental impacts of  
substances used in making HP products. 
We continue to engage with our suppliers  
to strengthen knowledge and best practice  
in health and safety. For example, in 2019  
we held an environment, health and safety  
(EHS) summit with suppliers in China. As  
well as covering important environmental  
aspects, these focused on the health,  
safety, and welfare of workers, including  
discussions around compliance, training, and  
emergency preparedness. 
Supply chain responsibility 
Additionally, our Supplier Code of Conduct  
requires suppliers to employ robust  
management systems to catalog and  
evaluate process chemicals, eliminate  
or manage hazardous substances,  
demonstrate that analyses of safer  
alternatives were conducted when a  
hazardous chemical is being used, and  
provide workers with essential personal  
protective equipment (PPE) and training.  
In situations where the use of hazardous  
chemicals is currently unavoidable, we help  
suppliers identify preferable alternatives  
through our alternative materials  
Process chemicals 
Suppliers are required to follow the  
manufacturing process chemical use  
restrictions outlined in the HP General  
Specification for the Environment (GSE).  
assessment program. To drive progress  
across the industry, we are a founding  
member of the Clean Electronics Production  
Network (CEPN) Green America program,  
whose members aim to move toward zero  
exposure of workers to toxic chemicals in the  
electronics manufacturing process.  
This collaborative effort is focusing on  
developing a program to assess the use of  
process chemicals, strengthen the culture  
of worker safety and engagement, reduce  
worker exposure to identified priority  
process chemicals, substitute those  
chemicals with safer alternatives within  
members  own manufacturing processes,  
and ultimately reach deeper into their  
supply chains.  
Within CEPN, HP, along with other  
stakeholders and leaders in the industry,  
is developing effective shared tools for the  
entire sector that will allow for identification  
of safer substitutions, data collection  
on process chemical use, and worker  
engagement in improvements to workplace  
health and safety. 
Responsible minerals sourcing 
Any connection between the materials used  
in HP products and armed violence or human  
rights abuses is unacceptable. To ensure  
our products are made responsibly, we  
have adopted industry-leading policies and  
monitoring practices and are broadening our  
vigilance beyond conflict minerals to a wider  
range of minerals and geographies. Through  
collaborative efforts, we aim to expand the  
market for responsibly sourced minerals,  
including those originating from conflict- 
affected and high-risk areas. 
Conflict minerals 1 
Across our complex, global, multi-actor  
supply chain, we have the most influence  
over our direct suppliers. However, in the  
case of trace and precious minerals, we  
recognize that we must work to influence  
the practices of those much deeper in the  
supply chain. 
While conflict minerals are rarely used in  
large volumes in any one IT product or by  
one company, the 3TG metals produced from  
them are found in relatively small amounts  
in virtually all electronic products. However,  
we are typically 4 10 supply chain stages  
removed from the smelters that purchase  
39  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
and process the ore into metals. For this  
reason, HP works with peers across the IT  
industry to collectively engage the entire  
supply chain in efforts to eradicate minerals  
that may have directly or indirectly supported  
armed groups and to promote responsible  
sourcing of minerals regardless of origin.  
We do not support de facto embargoes  
of minerals from Democratic Republic  
of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries,  
nor from other conflict-affected regions.  
We believe it is more effective to use our  
leverage (as a company and within cross- 
industry collaborations) to address issues  
and promote positive change. This helps  
to protect people in those regions while  
maintaining their economic opportunities.  
We are actively involved in the Responsible  
Minerals Initiative (RMI) and support  
its efforts to engage with government  
stakeholders. 
Eliminating conflict-related   risks from our supply chain  
Promoting best practices by smelters is  
the most direct way to address the risk of  
conflict minerals entering our supply chain.  
We require our suppliers to source 3TG  
for HP products only from smelters that  
comply with the RMI s Responsible Minerals  
Assurance Process (RMAP), which requires  
a third-party sourcing audit. Presence on  
Supply chain responsibility 
the RMI conformant list demonstrates a  
smelter s conflict-free status. 
However, our relatively small use of these  
metals decreases our influence, so we need  
all industries that use these materials to  
demand conflict-free 3TG. We will continue  
to work with our suppliers and across  
industries to drive demand for conflict-free  
sourcing, regardless of whether the minerals  
originate in the DRC or elsewhere. 
We promote conflict-free minerals in our  
supply chain by: 
HP sets clear requirements of 3TG suppliers  
in our Supply Chain Social and Environmental  
Responsibility Policy (which includes  
our Conflict Minerals Policy), General  
Specification for the Environment, and  
Supplier Code of Conduct. We assess these  
  Encouraging all smelters that purchase  
  Requiring our production suppliers of  
  Supporting multi-stakeholder  
and process mineral ores to undergo  
third-party sourcing audits. 
goods containing 3TG ( 3TG suppliers ) to  
require their smelters to undergo third- 
party sourcing audits. 
collaboration to establish secure, conflict- 
free sources of 3TG ores from the DRC. 
suppliers  responses to the RMI Conflict  
Minerals Reporting Template, which gives  
companies a common format for sharing  
information about 3TG sources with business  
partners and suppliers across the supply  
chain. We request corrective action from  
suppliers where needed and provide them  
training upon request. If any 3TG supplier  
reports sourcing from a smelter that triggers  
one of our potential risk indicators, we  
work with the supplier to establish whether  
unverified material is potentially used in  
HP products. When we identify a risk of  
this occurring, we request the supplier to  
remove the smelter from our supply chain. 
If a supplier is non-responsive, we use our  
procurement leverage to engage the supplier  
and improve performance.  
To identify and disclose the smelters and  
refiners in our supply chain, between January  
and December 2019 HP surveyed suppliers  
that contributed material, components,  
or manufacturing for products containing  
3TG. Each smelter or refiner reported was  
identified in at least one of the RMI Conflict  
Minerals Reporting Templates we received. 
40  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Performance 
In 2019, we received acceptable responses  
to RMI Conflict Minerals Reporting Templates  
from suppliers representing about 98%  
of our 3TG procurement spend, including  
both final assembly and commodity  
suppliers. These responses detailed 295  
   As of March 2020. 
     Smelters or refiners listed by RMI as currently RMAP  compliant (including certification or accreditation by similar  independent assessment programs cross-recognized by  RMAP such as the Responsible Jewellery Council s (RJC)  Chain-of-Custody Certification Program or the London  Bullion Market Association s (LBMA) Responsible Gold  Programme) or in the process of becoming RMAP compliant. 
Status of all supplier-reported  3TG facilities  Status of all supplier-reported 3TG facilities 
 Unknown  31 28 35 40 
  Believed to source  recycled scrap or  from outside the  Covered Countries 
  Compliant or in  process   260 260 257 237 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
2018 2019 2016 2017 
3TG facilities, 86% of which were compliant  
or in process to become compliant with an  
independent assessment program, and  
or that we reasonably believe exclusively  
source conflict minerals from recycled or  
scrap sources or from outside of the Covered  
Countries (as of March 2020). 
U.S. Securities and Exchange  Commission (SEC) Conflict  Minerals Report 
In May 2020, we filed our Form SD and  
Conflict Minerals Report with the U.S. SEC  
disclosing our due diligence efforts and  
results. See our SEC Conflict Minerals Report. 
  Number of total 3TG facilities in HP Conflict Minerals Report  3TG facility list that were either RMAP compliant or in  process to become compliant, and or that we reasonably  believe exclusively source conflict minerals from recycled or  scrap sources or from outside of the Covered Countries (as  of March 2020).  
Gold 154 123 80% 
Total 295 255 86% 
Type of  facility Total Progress  toward DRC  Conflict-Free  Percentage 
Tin 55 48 87% 
Tungsten 47 45 96% 
Tantalum 39 39 100% 
Progress toward DRC  Conflict-Free, 2019 
Supply chain responsibility 
Other regions  and minerals 
Learning from our experience combating  
conflict minerals in the DRC and surrounding  
countries, we are expanding our efforts.  
This aligns with growing awareness of  
minerals sourcing issues beyond the DRC  
and surrounding countries covered by  
the U.S. Dodd Frank Act. The EU Conflict  
Minerals Regulation, which covers EU  
imports of 3TG minerals from all regions  
of the world, requires all large EU 3TG  
metal importers and smelters to become  
 responsible importers  consistent with the  
OECD Due Diligence Guidance. Although  
HP s operations are not within the scope of  
the EU regulation, we are aligning our policy  
and approach to the extent practicable  
and preparing to support our customers   
requirements consistent with the regulation. 
We support RMI s work to help smelters  
identify conflict-affected and high-risk  
areas (CAHRAs), including outside of DRC  
and Covered Countries. We also supported  
RMI s gap assessment work with the OECD,  
which led to revised protocols for smelters  
to responsibly source 3TG from CAHRAs  
worldwide. We engage smelters to ensure  
they are prepared to meet the updated  
expectations, and we encourage our  
suppliers and customers to do the same.  
Our minerals due diligence and reporting  
also include cobalt, which has been linked to  
human rights risks. We expect our battery  
suppliers to have policies addressing  
cobalt, to report to HP the names of the  
cobalt refiners they use, and to join us in  
encouraging these refiners to complete  
an RMI audit. Additionally, we encourage  
these suppliers to engage in collaborative  
industry action through RMI. See our Report  
on Cobalt. 
Multi-stakeholder  initiatives 
Sourcing minerals responsibly requires  
globally coordinated efforts across sectors  
and industries. We collaborate widely with  
businesses, NGOs, government agencies,  
and our production suppliers to advance the  
use of responsibly sourced minerals. 
Through RMI, we help develop and share  
trainings, templates, and white papers to  
build the capabilities of the IT industry and  
beyond. We also support broader policy  
efforts through participation in RMI and its  
Due Diligence Practices Team and Smelter  
Engagement Team. 
Additionally, we collaborate through external  
forums, including European Partnership for  
Responsible Minerals, Kemet Partnership  
for Social and Economic Sustainability, and  
Public-Private Alliance for Responsible  
Minerals Trade.  
   Goods and services produced by HP s diverse suppliers and their supply chains. 
41  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
    Including professional services, scientific services, technical services, computer and electronic manufacturing, real estate, and numerous other industries. 
and inclusion underpins everything we do,  
including our business relationships with  
suppliers. Through our purchasing decisions  
and business relationships, we help to  
foster greater opportunity, equality, and  
representation throughout our supply chain  
and in the communities where we live, work,  
and do business. Diverse perspectives and  
experiences drive innovation, fortify our  
business, and strengthen local economies. 
Supplier diversity 
A strong commitment to fostering diversity  
Spending with small  and diverse suppliers 
 374 million 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Economic impact summary of HP supplier diversity program, 2019 
 698 million overall economic impact   
Incomes earned by  employees in the jobs  supported by HP s  supplier diversity  program purchases 
 268 million 
In 2019, we continued to develop our global  
supplier diversity program in the United States  
and South Africa. To accelerate our efforts,  
we work with the National Minority Supplier  
Development Council, Georgia Minority  
Supplier Development Council, Women s  
Business Enterprise National Council, and  
industry groups such as tech:Scale. 
We encourage small businesses and  
companies owned by women, minorities,  
veterans, service-disabled veterans, LGBTQ   
Jobs supported   through HP s   spending with diverse  suppliers   
Supply chain responsibility 
individuals and aboriginal or indigenous  
individuals to compete for our business.  
In 2019, we spent  322 million with small  
businesses in the United States and  123  
million with minority- and women-owned  
businesses (see additional data). 
In South Africa, we support Broad-Based  
Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE)  
initiatives through our supplier purchasing,  
to advance distribution of wealth across a  
broad spectrum of disadvantaged groups.  
Federal, state, and local  personal and corporate  taxes generated 
 226  million 
During 2019, we spent1: 
In 2019, HP in South Africa was rated as a  
Superior Level 1 contributor to B-BBEE, the  
highest rating possible, which measures the  
company s performance in this area. 
To improve the diversity of our suppliers   
workforces, we run initiatives such as those  
with our main advertising agencies and U.S.  
law firm partners. See Diversity and inclusion  
for details. 
  R167.7 million ( 11.9 million) with all  
  R123.3 million ( 8.8 million) with large  
  R44.4 million ( 3.2 million) with small and  
  R114.3 million ( 8.1 million) with firms  
  R46.3 million ( 3.3 million) with firms  
  R15.9 million ( 1.1 million) with youth- 
B-BBEE compliant businesses (74.4% of  
HP s total spend with suppliers in South  
Africa in 2019). 
B-BBEE compliant businesses (54.7% of  
total spend). 
medium-sized businesses (19.7% of total  
with at least 51% black ownership   
(50.7% of total spend). 
with at least 30% black women ownership  
(20.5% of total spend). 
owned firms or firms owned by people  
with disabilities (7.0% of total spend).  
Environmental impact 
Our production and nonproduction suppliers  
are essential partners as we work to  
drive low-carbon and resource-efficient  
transformation throughout the value chain. 
For more than a decade we have worked  
closely with our suppliers to improve  
their environmental programs and  
report progress transparently. Our  
Sustainability Scorecard is central to our  
efforts to set expectations, evaluate our  
suppliers  performance, and drive ongoing  
improvement. See more detail about results. 
We periodically raise our expectations  
to motivate ongoing improvement.  
These include supplier environmental  
management criteria such as science-based  
GHG emissions reduction targets, third- 
party verification of GHG emissions, and  
publication of a GRI-based sustainability  
report, as well as transparent reporting  
through CDP of key environmental  
information, including GHG emissions,  
energy consumption, renewable energy use,  
and water management.  
We request 98% of our production suppliers,  
by spend, as well as strategic nonproduction  
suppliers, to disclose key qualitative  
and quantitative information about  
42  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
environmental management and impacts  
through HP s CDP Supply Chain membership.  
Requested information includes GHG  
emissions and goals, total and renewable  
energy use, water withdrawal, climate and  
water risks, and governance. 
To understand and manage our impacts, we  
calculate supply chain GHG emissions and  
water consumption in two ways: 
  In this section of the report, we include  
  The supply chain-related data included  
data reported by our first-tier production  
suppliers, product transportation  
suppliers, and nonproduction suppliers.  
This data reflects the volume of HP s  
business with each organization. Through  
engagement with suppliers, we can better  
understand and influence improvements  
in performance year over year. 
in our carbon and water footprints  
are derived from product life cycle  
assessment-based estimates. This  
analysis is intended to provide as  
complete an understanding as possible of  
impacts across the multiple levels of our  
supply chain, from materials extraction  
through manufacturing and product  
use, as well as retail and storage. These  
calculations use a combination of HP- 
specific and industry methods and data. 
Supply chain responsibility 
Greenhouse gas  emissions 
In 2008, HP was the first major IT company  
to publish aggregated supply chain GHG  
emissions data. We continue working to  
drive progress in this area, including through  
our goals (see below). Our goal to reduce  
supply chain GHG emissions intensity is one  
of HP s three value chain goals validated by  
the Science Based Targets initiative. WWF  
has publicly supported this goal,1 confirming  
the rigor of our goals-setting process. 
PROGRESS THROUGH 2019 
Suppliers avoided 1.26 million tonnes 
of CO2e emissions 
GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY  
REDUCTION GOAL 
Reduce first-tier production supplier  
and product transportation-related GHG  
emissions intensity by 10% by 2025,  
compared to 20152 
PROGRESS THROUGH 2018 
GHG emissions intensity remained flat  
through 2018, compared to 2015 
GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTION GOAL 
Help suppliers cut 2 million tonnes  
of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e)  
emissions between 2010 and 20253 
Although GHG emissions intensity remained  
flat between 2015 and 2018 when calculated  
as a three-year rolling average, yearly GHG  
emissions intensity values (not calculated  
as a rolling average) decreased by 13%  
during that timeframe. Since 2010, HP has  
decreased first-tier production supplier  
and product transportation-related GHG  
emissions intensity by 24%. To help reach  
our goal, we focus our suppliers' attention  
on improving energy management and  
efficiency, using renewable energy, and  
setting science-based targets. 
Production suppliers 
Through our Sustainability Scorecard (see  
page 36), we set requirements for our  
production suppliers, including requirements  
related to energy use and GHG emissions  
performance and disclosure.  
During 2019, we conducted a Supplier  
Environmental Summit in China. Involving  
CDP, WWF, and other experts, the event  
covered the latest climate science,  
the process for setting science-based  
targets, best practices related to energy  
efficiency and renewable energy, and  
HP s Sustainability Scorecard supplier  
environmental management expectations.  
Eighty representatives from 37 suppliers  
attended. Also during the year and in  
collaboration with CDP and WWF, we  
delivered a focused workshop in Taiwan on  
climate science and science-based targets  
for 15 large suppliers representing more  
than three-quarters of final assembly spend. 
Our Energy Efficiency Program in China  
and Southeast Asia, implemented in  
collaboration with NGOs such as BSR, the  
World Resources Institute, and WWF, helps  
suppliers to build capabilities, identify  
ways to improve energy efficiency, and  
explore the use of renewable energy.  
In the Strategic Energy Management  
Program, HP collaborated with Natural  
Resources Defense Council (NRDC), the  
China National Institute of Standardization,  
local agencies, and suppliers in Suzhou to  
enhance operations, technology, continuous  
improvement processes, and overall energy  
management, with a goal to establish best  
practices and national guidelines for facility  
energy management across China s broader  
IT sector. When available, results of this  
program may be used to develop future  
supplier capability-building programs.  
43  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
For the fourth consecutive year, HP  was named by CDP as a Supplier  Engagement Leader for the company s  actions and strategies to reduce  emissions and manage climate risks in  its supply chain. Learn more.  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
This reflects business growth, which  
exceeded reductions in supplier GHG  
emissions. However, the intensity of these  
emissions per HP annual revenue in 2018  
decreased 8% compared to the prior year. We  
expect suppliers to set science-based targets  
and reduce absolute emissions over time. 
We engaged 98% of our first-tier production  
suppliers, by spend, to help reduce their  
environmental impact. Overall, 94%  
reported having GHG emissions reduction- 
related goals. We also encourage suppliers  
to use renewable energy. By spend, 78%  
reported doing so in 2018, with 47%  
reporting renewable energy use goals. 
attributable to HP, 3% more than in 2017.   
847 million kWh ( 109 million) of electricity,  
including 54 million kWh ( 6.9 million) in 2019.  
More broadly, through CDP our production  
suppliers reported savings of 17.1 million  
tonnes of CO2e and  727 million from  
This demonstrates the scale of ongoing GHG  
emissions reduction activities throughout  
our production supply chain, regardless of  
whether driven by HP s engagement.  
reduction initiatives implemented in 2018.4  
of Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions  
Since 2010, participants in these and other  
programs have avoided 1.26 million tonnes  
of CO2e emissions and saved a cumulative  
Performance  
In 2018, the most recent year that data  
is available, the suppliers that make HP  
products generated 2.9 million tonnes  
Supply chain responsibility 
   2018 is the most recent year data is available.  
See additional data and HP s 2019 carbon footprint. 
Product transportation 
To improve efficiency, cut costs, and reduce  
negative environmental impacts, we  
work to optimize our logistics network by  
consolidating shipments, identifying new  
routes, and shipping directly to customers or  
local distribution centers. 
We require our product transportation  
suppliers to use the Global Logistics  
Emissions Framework to standardize  
emission calculations. This system, which  
HP helped to develop in 2016 with the  
Global Logistics Emissions Council (GLEC),  
 Production supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions    Product transportation   Nonproduction supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions  
2017 2018 2015 2019 2016 
Supplier GHG emissions performance 
tonnes CO2e 
provides more specific, fuel-based or other  
GLEC-compliant data that accounts for  
variation in different locations. To drive  
progress across the industry and beyond, we  
are working with the Clean Cargo Working  
Group, Green Freight Asia, the United Nations  
Climate   Clean Air Coalition, and the U.S.  
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)  
SmartWay program. 
We continue to use SmartWay partners for  
100% of our products shipped by truck in  
the United States and Canada. The program  
aims to help improve road transportation  
efficiency and reduce GHG and other  
emissions. In 2019, HP won the U.S. EPA  
telecommunications, and travel. We prioritize  
collaboration with nonproduction suppliers  
based on geographical risk and industry, and  
provide training to help improve reporting  
and reduce GHG emissions. 
2019, up 12% from the prior year. This rise  
was due primarily to increased use of air  
freight related to new tariffs. In 2019, we  
avoided 25,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions  
by moving shipments from air to ocean  
between Asia and the Americas, Europe,  
and other countries within Asia. Reducing  
packaging size and weight also decreases  
emissions. See Packaging. 
SmartWay Excellence Award for the 6th year  
in a row, demonstrating leadership in freight  
supply chain energy and environmental  
performance for the  Large Shipper   
category in the United States.    
Performance 
Product transportation resulted in  
1.46 million tonnes of CO2e emissions in  
Nonproduction  suppliers 
We purchase a wide range of goods  
and services not related directly to  
product manufacturing, such as staffing,  
44  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
HP. During that year, the percentage of  
HP nonproduction strategic suppliers that  
produced environmental reports increased  
to 77%, from 75% in 2017. We believe this  
improvement in disclosure is partly due to our  
engagement with nonproduction suppliers  
through the CDP Supply Chain program. 
Performance 
In 2018, the most recent year data is  
Scope 2 CO2e emissions attributable to  
Many of our suppliers operate in regions  
where water stress is a growing threat. We  
work with production suppliers to improve  
water management in their operations. 
To identify supplier sites located in  
water-stressed areas, we use water risk  
assessment tools such as the World  
manufacture relatively water-intense  
product types and use this information  
to assess overall water stress risks and  
opportunities. We ask our suppliers to  
available, our nonproduction suppliers  
reported 210,000 tonnes of Scope 1 and  
Resources Institute s Aqueduct Water  
Risk Atlas tool. We also identify sites that  
Supply chain responsibility 
report water risk, use, and management  
information through the CDP Supply Chain  
program. This drives suppliers  awareness  
of water security issues and allows us to  
assess suppliers  current water management  
strategies in the context of local  
environments and communities. We work  
with suppliers to improve water reporting  
and, when appropriate, we also work with  
suppliers to enhance water management  
practices, through use of best practice  
frameworks. To further drive improvements,  
we include water stewardship criteria in our  
supplier Sustainability Scorecard. Suppliers  
are scored for transparently reporting  
quantitative water withdrawal as well as  
for having a public company-wide policy or  
governance structure for water at the board  
of directors or top executive level. 
Performance 
In 2018, the most recent year data is  
available, production suppliers withdrew  
30 million cubic meters of water associated  
with HP, 7% more than in 2017, primarily due  
to business growth. However, the intensity of  
water withdrawals normalized to HP annual  
revenue in 2018 decreased 8% compared  
to the prior year. Stronger supplier water  
accounting practices also contributed to  
year-over-year variations in data. By the end  
of 2018, 93% of our suppliers, by spend, had  
set water management goals. 
See HP s 2019 water footprint. 
We work with production suppliers to  
encourage waste measurement and  
reporting, reduce waste volumes, and drive  
progress toward a circular economy. HP  
requests our suppliers report on waste using  
the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)  
environmental survey. 
Performance 
During 2018, the most recent year data is  
available, our suppliers generated 144,000  
tonnes of nonhazardous waste associated  
with HP, a 17% increase from 2017, and  
56,000 tonnes of hazardous waste, also  
up 17% compared to the prior year. This  
was due primarily to HP s business growth  
as well as more complete waste data. By  
the end of 2018, 72% of our production  
suppliers, by spend, had set waste-related  
goals, up from 59% the prior year. 
45  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Supply chain transparency  
Much of our production supplier base is in China, so we have a particular focus in  
that area. The Corporate Information Transparency Index, developed by the Institute  
of Public and Environmental Affairs (IPE) and NRDC, evaluates the environmental  
practices of global brands  supply chains in China. In 2019, HP ranked  10 among  
global IT companies and  40 overall, of 438 brands assessed. On the Supply Chain  
Climate Action Index, developed by IPE and CDP, HP ranked  9 of 440 brands. 
During 2019, we continued encouraging our suppliers to submit inventories of  
substances released through IPE s public pollutant release and transfer register system. 
Also during the year, we cross-checked supplier sites representing 95% of  
our spend against IPE s public database of environmental violations. We also  
collaborated with first-tier manufacturing suppliers in China to determine whether  
sub-tier suppliers complied with local environmental laws. This review of over 300  
sub-tier suppliers identified 13 reported violations. We continue working with the  
relevant first-tier suppliers and IPE to address and resolve these issues. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Building on a successful zero waste to  
landfill project in Brazil, we launched a  
similar pilot project in 2017 at a site of a  
major supplier in China, with the objective  
of diverting more than 95% of waste from  
landfill through reduction, reuse, and  
recycling. This supplier received third- 
party zero waste certification in 2019. We  
are exploring expanding this program to  
additional suppliers. 
Supply chain responsibility 
Audit  results 
Our supplier audit process is an essential  
component of our risk assessment  
framework and a key mechanism for  
identifying opportunities for sustained  
improvement with our suppliers. Supplier  
audits measure conformance with all  
provisions of the HP Supplier Code of  
Conduct in the areas of labor, health  
and safety, environmental, ethics, and  
management systems. See Our approach to  
a sustainable supply chain for detail about  
the audit process. 
In 2019, we worked with our final assembly  
suppliers to confirm they are auditing  
companies in their own supply chains that  
represent approximately 80% of their spend,  
based on the RBA Code of Conduct.  
In addition to the audit process, we engage  
with suppliers through: 
  The supplier self-assessment  
questionnaire (SAQ). This includes  
detailed questions around social  
and environmental management  
and practices. As well as assisting  
HP to evaluate risk, identify areas  
for improvement, and determine a  
firm s inclusion in our audit program,  
In 2019, we broadened our audits and  assessments across nonproduction  suppliers that support our services and  operations. In addition to our work with  suppliers, we also plan to complete  audits of 100% of HP manufacturing  operations every two years and began  this process during 2019. See data in the  table on page 46. 
HP has undergone Social Accountability  International s (SAI) Social Fingerprint   Supply Chain Management Assessment  to measure and improve social  performance in both the company  and our supply chain. This uses self- assessment and independent evaluation  of eight key categories of supply chain  management: policies, risk assessment,  monitoring, integration, communication,  tracking remediation, and complaint  management. The most recent 2019  Social Fingerprint result placed  HP among the highest-scoring SAI  corporate members. The findings from  this benchmark have reinforced HP s  continued efforts to support capability- building programs that focus on worker  engagement and wellbeing. 
46  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
  Audits of production suppliers, product transportation suppliers, suppliers supporting HP manufacturing, and HP  manufacturing sites followed the RBA Code of Conduct Audit Protocol 6.0. Product transportation supplier audits included  four initial audits that in past years would have been categorized as trucking assessments. We contract with Environmental  Resources Management (ERM) to audit product reuse and recycling vendors for conformance with the following policies and  vendor standards: Export of Electronic Waste to Developing Countries Policy, HP Supplier Code of Conduct, and Reuse and  Recycling Standards. See Product repair, reuse, and recycling for detail. Audits of nonproduction suppliers supporting HP  offices, off-site third-party nonproduction suppliers, and HP offices focused on labor, health and safety, and ethics. 
  Coaching, specialized training, data  
Nonproduction suppliers 
HP operations 
Product supply chain 
these mechanisms, we aim to help   
self-assessment helps suppliers become  
more familiar with HP s expectations  
of conformance to our Supplier Code  
of Conduct and is a core part of our  
onboarding processes. During 2019,  
235 production suppliers and 44  
nonproduction suppliers completed SAQs.  
collection, and ongoing dialogue. Using  
HP offices 6 0 0 
Suppliers supporting HP   manufacturing (on HP premises) 25 0 0 
Suppliers supporting HP offices   (on HP premises) 20 0 0 
Service suppliers (at third-party premises) 19 0 0 
HP manufacturing sites 6 0 0 
Product transportation suppliers 17 0 0 
Production suppliers 22 41 43 
Product reuse and recycling vendors 4 0 30 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Sustainability audits, 2019  
Initial audits Follow-up audits Full re-audits 
  Key performance indicator (KPI)  
monitoring program. We collect data  
from high-risk suppliers weekly on key  
issues such as working hours, day of rest,  
and student workers, and collaborate to  
drive ongoing improvement. See results. 
suppliers develop robust management   
systems to address root causes of key  
risks and challenges  for more detail see  
capability building. 
Supply chain responsibility 
Performance 
In 2019, we completed 187 audits of  
production, nonproduction, and product  
transportation suppliers, and 60 other  
assessments of production suppliers. During  
the year, 91% of production supplier audits  
were third-party certified RBA Validated  
Assessment Program (VAP) audits. 
We see a wide range of maturity levels in  
our audits, which are scored on a scale of  
0 200. In the RBA Factory LEAD Certification  
Program, suppliers with scores from 160 180  
are eligible for a Silver certification, and scores  
above 180 for a Gold certification (including  
23% of supplier facilities audited in 2019). 
From 2017 to 2019, the percentage of  
production supplier initial audits and full  
re-audits that scored above 160 increased  
from 38% to 45%. The average score during  
that period rose from 135 to 140. Twelve of  
those audits were of final assembly supplier  
sites. Of these, 67% scored over 160, 17%  
scored between 100 and 160, and 17%  
Production supplier   sustainability assessments, 2019 
Vulnerable worker group (student and  foreign worker) assessments 11  
KPI validation assessments 6  
Health and safety assessments 22  
Onboarding assessments 21  
% of full audits 
scored under 100.1 The other 53 audits were  
of commodity supplier sites. In 2019, 40%  
of commodity suppliers scored over 160,  
43% scored between 100 and 160, and 17%  
under 100. 
We periodically increase our expectations  
of suppliers, so suppliers must continually  
improve to maintain a consistent audit score.  
For example, in 2018 we adopted version  
6.0 of the RBA Code of Conduct, which  
includes requirements related to worker  
voice and training, pregnant and nursing  
women, process chemicals, and water  
management. During that year, we also  
added new environmental requirements to  
our Sustainability Scorecard.  
  160     100 160      100     Average score 
Distribution of scores of initial  audits and full re-audits 
2016 2017 2018 2019 
Average score 
serious type of supplier nonconformance  
and require immediate action. In 2019, we  
identified six immediate priority findings,  
equivalent to 0.092 findings on average  
for each initial audit and full re-audit of  
Immediate priority  findings 
Immediate priority findings2 are the most  
47  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
  Data is from initial audits and full re-audits of production  suppliers conducted in 2019. Due to our two-year audit  cycle and changes to HP s supplier base, data typically  does not represent the same supplier sites as the  previous year. 
13% Environmental 
35% Health and safety  
Distribution of major  nonconformances by  section of HP Supplier   Code of Conduct, 2019  
14% Management systems  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
percentage of total  
production suppliers conducted. Four  
issues related to fire exits, one related to  
emergency drill preparedness, and one  
related to personal protection equipment.  
We required the issues to be immediately  
addressed and are working with the  
suppliers to complete remediation and  
implement corrective actions to adjust their  
management systems. 
Detailed analysis of audit  results  
A major nonconformance  
is a significant failure in the  
management system that  
affects a company s ability to  
ensure that conditions conform  
to the HP Supplier Code of  
Conduct or General Specification  
for the Environment. A minor  
nonconformance is not a systemic  
problem, but typically an  
isolated finding. The data in  
this section focuses on major  
nonconformances. 
Supply chain responsibility 
nonconformances within 30 days of receipt  
of the site audit report (except immediate  
priority findings, which are addressed  
expeditiously), and have processes in place to  
monitor progress and subsequent closure of  
nonconformances. For details, see the RBA  
VAP Operations Manual and Our approach to  
a sustainable supply chain. 
Other findings  
For audits conducted in 2019, suppliers  
were in full conformance (no major  
nonconformances identified) for the  
following provisions: risk of child labor,  
risk of discriminatory practices, and  
intellectual property. Sixty-five initial audits  
and full re-audits of production suppliers  
conducted in 2019 identified 455 major  
nonconformances, equivalent to 7.0 per  
audit on average. 
Six provisions (see table on next page) out  
of 45 total represented 59% of all major  
nonconformances identified. We focus on  
these and other areas that have the greatest  
potential for improvement. 
HP requires suppliers to provide a detailed  
corrective action plan addressing all identified  
    Percentage of sites with no major nonconformances identified. 
     The HP key performance indicator program measures the performance of HP production lines at participating supplier facilities, and not the overall performance of those facilities. 
    Data is from initial audits and full re-audits of production suppliers conducted in 2017 and 2019. Due to our two-year audit cycle and changes to HP s supplier base, data typically does not represent the same supplier sites as the previous cycle. 
48  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Issue Rate of  conformance,  2017   
Working hours 26% 22% Excessive working hours remains the single largest labor challenge in our supply chain, especially around times of peak production and labor shortages. Workers  often voluntarily work long hours to earn more money and suppliers may lack effective management systems in this area. Among suppliers in our KPI program  (about 62 at the end of 2019 representing approximately 94,983 workers), 95% met our requirements related to working hours in 2019, up from 94% in 2018.    HP  is supporting suppliers to improve their forecasting ability, track shifts and working hours more accurately, and hire workers directly instead of by contract. Suppliers  have also implemented IT systems to better manage shifts, and some have dedicated lines for student and juvenile workers to facilitate conformance with overtime  or night shift requirements. We provide training to student workers and their managers about our requirements and their rights. 
Dormitory and  canteen 68% 74% Workers are to be provided with ready access to clean toilet facilities, potable water, and sanitary food preparation, storage, and eating facilities. Worker dormitories  provided by the supplier or a labor agent are to be maintained clean and safe. Most corrective actions in this provision are straightforward, such as ensuring exit  signs are properly illuminated, maintaining fire extinguishers in all appropriate areas, and having food samples available for quality and safety testing.  
Emergency  preparedness 40% 52% Nonconformances in this area involve items such as blocked exit doors, missing or poorly lit exit signs, lack of fire exit instructions, and missing or defective  emergency equipment. Most of these can be remedied with straightforward corrective actions. However, sometimes a change takes more time  for instance,  replacing all fire exit doors. We supplement our audits with specific health and safety assessments that help us evaluate and improve understanding of our policies  and standards. 
Occupational   safety 62% 51% Major nonconformances related primarily to presence of current safety permits and first aid response reporting. Suppliers are required to have a tracking  mechanism and keep documentation of remediation and compensation provided to workers involved in an incident. A supplier with a nonconformance must also  prove that training has been or will be conducted within 180 days. We believe that the decreased conformance rate between 2017 and 2019 reflects expanded Code  of Conduct requirements for this provision related to documented management systems. 
Wages and   benefits 66% 62% In countries without a set minimum wage, the industry prevailing wage applies. The most common issue in wages and benefits is suppliers not paying appropriate  social insurance. More broadly, corrective actions in nonconformances related to wages and benefits include documentation of pay stubs, communication to  workers, and records of employer contributions to worker insurance schemes. In 2019, we continued to work directly with suppliers that had nonconformances  related to social insurance to help them fully understand our requirements and resolve the issues. 
Hazardous  substances 72% 72% Suppliers must properly label and store all hazardous substances in their facilities. Corrective actions may include development of inventory management systems,  a list of approved chemicals, use of auditor-verified vendors, and education on legal restrictions related to material use. During 2019, we continued to work directly  with suppliers that had nonconformances in this area to help them fully understand our requirements and resolve the issues. We also addressed issues such as  process chemicals management through HP and industry capability-building programs, including an environment, health, and safety summit we hosted in China, as  well as our collaboration with the Clean Electronics Production Network. See Process chemicals. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Rate of  conformance,  2019   HP s approach 
Issues with lowest rates of conformance of sites audited, 2017 and 2019  
Supply chain responsibility 
49  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Rates of conformance of sites audited, 2017 and 2019    
HP Supplier Code of Conduct section provision Rate of conformance of sites audited, 2017      Rate of conformance of sites audited, 2019      
Labor 83% 84% 
Health and safety 75% 78% 
Environmental 85% 89% 
Freely chosen employment management systems 81% 80% 
Risk of forced labor 96% 91% 
Young worker protection management systems 83%   94% 
Risk of child labor 100% 100% 
Working hours 26% 22% 
Wages and benefits 66% 62% 
Humane treatment 96% 98% 
Nondiscrimination management systems 89% 92% 
Risk of discriminatory practices 98% 100% 
Freedom of association 96% 98% 
Occupational safety 62% 51% 
Emergency preparedness 40% 52% 
Occupational injury and illness 74% 78% 
Industrial hygiene 85% 88% 
Physically demanding work 89% 92% 
Machine safeguarding 94% 97% 
Dormitory and canteen 68% 74% 
Health and safety communication 91% 91% 
Environmental permits and reporting 85% 95% 
Pollution prevention and resource reduction 92% 92% 
Hazardous substances 72% 72% 
Wastewater and solid waste 94% 95% 
Air emissions 91% 80% 
Storm water management 68% 91% 
Energy consumption and GHG emissions 92% 94% 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
Supply chain responsibility 
   Data is from initial audits and full re-audits of production suppliers conducted in 2017 and 2019. Due to our two-year audit  cycle and changes to HP s supplier base, data typically does not represent the same supplier sites as the previous cycle. 
    Percentage of sites with no major nonconformances identified. 2017 data refers to the RBA Code of Conduct Audit Protocol 5.0. 2019  data refers to the RBA Code of Conduct Audit Protocol 6.0.  
HP Supplier Code of Conduct section provision Rate of conformance of sites audited, 2017      Rate of conformance of sites audited, 2019      
Ethics 98% 98% 
Management systems 92% 93% 
Business integrity 100% 98% 
No improper advantage 98% 97% 
Disclosure of information 98% 94% 
Intellectual property 100% 100% 
Fair business, advertising, and competition 96% 98% 
Protection of identity and nonretaliation 98% 98% 
Responsible sourcing of minerals 96% 98% 
Privacy 100% 98% 
Company commitment 92% 98% 
Management accountability and responsibility 91% 92% 
Legal and customer requirements 89% 86% 
Risk assessment and risk management 94% 94% 
Performance objectives with implementation plan and measures                           89% 91% 
Training 96% 95% 
Communication 96% 97% 
Worker feedback and participation 100% 97% 
Audits and assessments 92% 92% 
Corrective action process 92% 97% 
Documentation and records 92% 97% 
Supplier responsibility 77% 75% 
    See page 47 for detail.  
    These totals are the number of workers as of the date of the site visit according to production supplier initial audit and full re-audit reports. HP s UK Modern Slavery Act (MSA) Transparency  Statement for 2017 reported that we had identified 199,432 workers based on audits conducted at many of our suppliers  sites. HP learned, after finalizing its UK MSA, that the reported  data overstated the number of workers by inadvertently including audit reports from 2016 in addition to 2017. In 2017, there were 162,300 workers at the sites for which we are reporting  audit performance information in this report. 
     Based on production-line workers at final assembly and select commodity sites participating in the HP KPI program. We continue to expand the list of suppliers in the KPI program based  on business risk, country risk, and identified nonconformances. 
    With the exception of train-the-trainer programs, HP only accounts for workers directly reached by our capability-building programs. Number of workers reached each year depends on the  programs executed  some programs address issues broadly across suppliers and workers  other programs focus more narrowly on individual supplier sites or specific vulnerable worker groups.  
Supply chain responsibility  
50  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
    Data in this table for 2018 is specific to production suppliers, except the following included in Sustainability audits and other assessments: five initial audits, two full re-audits, three  onboarding assessments, and seven supplier assessments of nonproduction suppliers  and four assessments of product transportation suppliers. Data in this table for 2019 is specific to  production suppliers, except the following included in Sustainability audits and other assessments: 64 initial audits of nonproduction suppliers and 17 initial audits of product transportation  suppliers. Data is not included in this table for product reuse and recycling vendors. See page 81 for information about our programs and performance in that area. 
Sustainability Scorecard average score   Commodity suppliers 78% 85% 87% 86% 
Sustainability Scorecard average score   Final assembly suppliers 72% 84% 88% 83% 
Sustainability audits and other assessments [total] 
Workers  rights 
Rates of conformance of sites audited, 2017 and 2019 (see page 49) 
Capability building 
Suppliers publishing sustainability reports using the GRI framework [% of production supplier spend] 86% 82% 88% 91% 
Workers at sites audited   [total] 96,400 162,300 244,700 198,300 
Full re-audits 30 30 55 43 
Assessments 29 34 43 60 
Follow-up audits 67 39 45 41 
Initial audits 58 47 17 103 
Suppliers  employees working fewer than 60 hours per week on average    89% 92% 94% 95% 
Immediate priority audit findings (immediate action required) related to the ILO Declaration on  Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work: freedom of association  forced, bonded, or indentured  labor  child labor  or discrimination  
Suppliers  employees receiving at least one day of rest each seven-day workweek    96% 98% 98% 99% 
Number of capability-building programs 14 15 10 7 
Suppliers in China with student workers representing 20% or less of total employees    98% 100% 99% 99% 
Workers reached through capability-building programs    45,700 119,900 12,000 11,000 
Immediate priority audit findings (immediate action required) related to occupational safety,  emergency preparedness, or industrial hygiene  2 0 2 6 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
2016 2017 2018 2019 
Supply chain responsibility 
    Suppliers are categorized as minority-owned or women-owned,  not both. These categories include all sizes of businesses. 
     These categories include all sizes of businesses. 
    Data is for the 12 months ending September 30 of the year  noted. Figures are for purchases in the United States and  Puerto Rico from U.S.-based businesses. 2019 data reflects a  refined calculation methodology. Data for prior years are not  comparable, and therefore not included in this report. 
HP s spend with U.S.   diverse suppliers, 2019     millions % of  qualified  spend 
Small businesses   322 25.7% 
Minority-owned businesses     78 6.0% 
Women-owned businesses     45 3.5% 
Veteran-owned businesses,  service-disabled veteran-owned  businesses, HUBZone businesses,  and others    
Environmental impact  
51  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Production supplier renewable energy use  [% of total energy use] 15% 22% 23% 
Production suppliers that reported using  renewable energy   [% of spend] 47% 54% 77% 78% 
Production supplier energy use     [MWh] 6,400,000 5,400,000 5,800,000 
First-tier production supplier and product  transportation-related GHG emissions  intensity ,    [tonnes CO2e   million of HP  net revenue] 
Production supplier hazardous waste  generation  ,   [tonnes] 495,000 51,000 48,000 56,000 
[tonnes CO2e]   1,280,000 1,200,000 1,250,000 1,300,000 1,460,000  
Production supplier GHG emissions     [tonnes CO2e] 
Production suppliers with waste-related  goals  [% of spend] 57% 62% 59% 72% 
Production supplier water withdrawal for  use  ,      [cubic meters] 44,000,000 31,000,000 28,000,000 30,000,000 
Production suppliers with water-related  goals [% of spend] 80% 80% 92% 93% 
Nonproduction supplier Scope 1 and  Scope 2 GHG emissions  ,    [tonnes CO2e] 240,000 270,000 230,000 210,000 
Production suppliers with GHG emissions  reduction-related goals  [% of spend] 
Product transportation GHG emissions   
Production supplier nonhazardous waste  generation  ,   [tonnes] 121,000 121,000 123,000 144,000 
Scope 3 emissions  ,      9,800,000 11,500,000 7,800,000 13,200,000 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions    3,000,000 2,600,000 2,800,000 2,900,000 
Air 750,000 700,000 740,000 710,000 970,000 
Road (includes rail) 330,000 350,000 350,000 410,000 400,000 
Ocean 200,000 150,000 160,000 180,000 90,000 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
93% 94% 94% 94% 
76.7 79.4 80.1 76.4 
Supply chain responsibility 
     Total energy includes purchased energy (electricity, etc.) and generated energy (fuel use, etc.). Energy use data is calculated  based on suppliers  reported energy use and their dollar volume of HP s business compared to their total revenue. Data  reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected for 2018 represented 94% of  HP production spend. 
    We believe that variation in this data reflects both changes in actual performance and inconsistency in reporting practices. 
    The figures for product transportation GHG emissions are based on data reported by product transportation suppliers that  HP contracted to deliver products (for 2015, before the split of Hewlett-Packard Company, calculations are adjusted to  reflect emissions attributable to HP s current business units). They may differ from the product life cycle assessment-based  estimates presented on page 23 which are based on a different calculation methodology, use a combination of HP-specific  and industry data, and include additional upstream and downstream transportation related to the company s products. 
      Suppliers may not report all Scope 3 categories. The number of categories reported by suppliers and the completeness of  reporting varies year-to-year. 
    Emissions are estimated based on suppliers  emissions and their dollar volume of HP business compared to their total  revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar-year basis. The year 2018 is the most recent for which data  is available. Data reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of strategic nonproduction suppliers. Data collected for 2018  represented 46% of HP nonproduction spend. Accounting for the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1,  2015, the calculation uses nonproduction spend associated with the business units that are now part of HP Inc. In cases where  spend for 2015 cannot be disaggregated, 2016 spend is used as an estimate. 
     This metric reports the amount of water withdrawn by suppliers, not the amount consumed by our multi-tier supply chain  as reported in our water footprint on page 24. Because water withdrawn can also be returned, this footprint is inherently  larger. Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. Withdrawal is estimated based on  suppliers  reported water withdrawal and their dollar volume of HP business compared to their total revenue. The majority  of these companies report on a calendar-year basis. The year 2018 is the most recent for which data is available. Data  reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected for 2018 represented 91% of  HP production spend. Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for  all years uses production spend associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. 
    In some cases, data from prior years is updated to reflect improved data  for example, revised supplier information. 
    Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier production and product transportation suppliers  reported GHG emissions  attributable to HP divided by HP s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity.  Intensity is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease the impact of variance year over year and highlight  longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. Taking into account the separation of  Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years uses HP revenue and spend associated with the  business units that are now a part of HP Inc. The year 2018 is the most recent for which data is available. 
     Emissions are calculated based on suppliers  reported emissions and their dollar volume of HP s business compared to their  total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar-year basis. Data reported here reflects extrapolation  to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected for 2018 represented 95% of HP production spend. The World  Resources Institute defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol. This data differs from the  product life cycle assessment-based estimates for materials extraction through manufacturing presented on page 23,  which are based on a different calculation methodology and use a combination of HP-specific and industry data. Taking into  account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years uses production spend  associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. The year 2018 is the most recent for which data is available. 
   Waste data is estimated based on suppliers  waste data and their dollar volume of HP business compared to their total  revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar-year basis. The year 2018 is the most recent for which data  is available. Data reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected for 2018  represented 74% of HP production spend for nonhazardous waste and 65% for hazardous waste. Taking into account the  separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years uses production spend associated  with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. 
Operations 
53 Our employees 
59 Our facilities 
65 Community giving and volunteerism 
52  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Appendix Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Footprint Sustainable Impact Operations Products and solutions 
Our employees 
Every day, HP s approximately 56,000  
employees1 worldwide shape our future  
   Board of Directors data as of November 1, 2019. Other data as of October 31, 2019. Employee data refers to regular full-time and part-time employees. 
53  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
and bring our vision to life. They power  
our innovation, contributing unique  
perspectives and a growth mindset  
to create breakthrough technologies  
and transformative solutions. We are  
committed to fostering a diverse and  
inclusive workplace that attracts and  
retains exceptional talent. Through ongoing  
employee development, comprehensive  
compensation and benefits, and a focus on  
health and safety and employee wellbeing,  
we help our employees succeed so they can  
do their best work, every single day. 
23 executives reporting directly to CEO  
33 under represented minorities  
58 minorities  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
23 executives reporting directly to CEO  
Board of Directors Women in leadership 
33 under represented minorities  
58 minorities  
Minorities 
23 executives reporting directly to CEO  
33 under represented minorities  
Underrepresented  minorities 
58 minorities  
Innovation at HP springs from the diverse  
perspectives, knowledge, and experiences  
of our employees. We strive to create an  
inclusive workplace where people can bring  
their whole selves to work. Diverse teams  
create transformative solutions that better  
serve our customers and advance how the  
world works and lives. To find and keep the  
very best people, we embrace and celebrate  
our differences, and take a stand for equity  
and belonging.  
Diversity   and inclusion  
23 executives reporting directly to CEO  of executives  reporting directly   to CEO 
33 under represented minorities  
58 minorities  
HP demographics  
rights is a core value at HP, and we are  
uncompromising about the rights, freedom,  
and equity to which everyone is entitled.  
A strong policy framework supports our  
efforts and includes our Nondiscrimination  
Our commitment extends beyond our  
own employees to our relationships with  
suppliers, partners, and communities  
worldwide. As part of our purpose to  
connect people everywhere to the power  
of technology, we also address accessibility  
and aging challenges through our  
products and services. Respecting human  
Policy, Harassment-Free Work Environment  
Policy, and Open Door Policy.  
We also collaborate and partner externally.  
For example, we have signed an agreement  
with UN Women to advance education,  
entrepreneurship, and digital learning for  
31.0% of director   level and above   employees in 2019,   from 21.7% in 2015 
TECH ROLES 
Operations 
28 women in revenue generating  
22 women in engineering and IT  
55 women in Legal, Finance, HR, and Marketing  
GLOBAL FUNCTIONS 
Technical roles 
Women in IT and  engineering 
women and girls in five priority countries:  
Democratic Republic of Congo, Morocco,  
Nigeria, Senegal, and South Africa. We also  
support the Human Rights Campaign s  
Business Coalition for the Equality Act  
related to LGBTQ  workplace rights, as well  
as the UN Human Rights Office Standards of  
Conduct for Business. 
In 2019, HP received recognition from  
Working Mother, Minority Engineer, U.S.  
Veterans, and AnitaB.org, in addition to more  
than 20 other external organizations. Learn  
more about recent awards and recognitions.  
TECH ROLES 
28 women in revenue generating  
Revenue-  generating roles 22 women in engineering and IT  
55 women in Legal, Finance, HR, and Marketing  
GLOBAL FUNCTIONS 
Women in sales   roles (all levels) 
SCORE IN THE DISABILITY   
EQUALITY INDEX 100% 
4th consecutive year 
Women in legal, finance,   HR, marketing,   and communications   (on average) 
TECH ROLES 
28 women in revenue generating  
Global functions 
22 women in engineering and IT  
55 women in Legal, Finance, HR, and Marketing  
GLOBAL FUNCTIONS 
Our commitment starts  at the top 
HP s Board of Directors is the most diverse  
of any U.S. technology company. We are  
also among the top technology companies  
for women in executive positions. Women  
represent 30.6% of the company s full-time  
vice president positions, up from 18.3% in  
2015,2 and 30.9% of full-time directors,  
See detailed employee demographics data.  
Our Global Diversity Advisory Board (GDAB) is  
composed of leaders from across our regions,  
functions, and businesses. It helps influence  
and drive our strategy and holds our leaders  
accountable to action. In 2019, the GDAB  
engaged with stakeholders across business  
groups and markets to establish strategic  
priorities and build teams at the business and  
local levels to accelerate progress. 
Diversity and inclusion is a key part of  
leadership discussions, and is a standard  
item on leadership quarterly business  
reviews. Our executive leadership team  
members are evaluated on their actions to  
support diversity and inclusion. 
We are committed to increasing  
representation of women overall, as  
well as in leadership and technical roles  
globally, and of minorities in the United  
States. In 2019, women represented 53%  
of employees participating in HP s Building  
Innovative Leaders program. 
54  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
compared to 22.7% in 2015.3,4 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
We are also expanding our efforts related  
to representation of employees with  
disabilities. In 2016, HP committed to hiring  
150 veterans or military spouses over the  
course of five years. Through 2019, we hired  
215 veterans, exceeding our target by 43%. 
Embedding diversity  and inclusion across HP  
Our Belong, Innovate, and Grow (BIG)  
strategy embeds diversity and inclusion  
across all parts of our businesses and  
functions, and into talent acquisition and  
development, culture, mentoring, training,  
and events. HP has seen a positive trend in  
employee survey results related to diversity  
and belonging (see data opposite). 
As of October 31, 2019, we have 113  
Business Impact Networks (BINs) in 29  
countries, open to all employees and  
representing the following constituencies:  
Black African American, Disabilities,  
Hispanic Latino, LGBTQ , Multicultural,  
As part of the CEO Action for  
Diversity   Inclusion, the largest  
CEO-driven business commitment  
to advance diversity and inclusion  
in the workplace, in February 2020  
our new CEO repeated the pledge  
already taken by his predecessor  
on behalf of HP.   
  Data refers to the percentage of HP 2017, 2018, and 2019  Voice Insight Action (VIA) employee survey respondents  who strongly agreed or agreed with each statement. 
Pan Asian, Veterans, Women, and Early  
Career.In addition to leading many  
community outreach programs, BINs  
promote diversity in pipeline development,  
local hiring, talent programs, and mentoring.  
They leverage our global diversity strategy  
to execute campaigns such as International  
I feel HP values diversity 
I can be myself at work 
I feel a sense of belonging at work 
 2017     2018     2019 
Employee survey results   Diversity and inclusion 
Operations 
Women s Week and ALLIES HP, a workshop  
for LGBTQ  allies that launched as part of  
our HP Pride Month initiatives.  
Overcoming unconscious bias 
We want HP to be the employer of choice  
among women and underrepresented  
groups. Our Reinvent Mindsets video  
series shines a light on unconscious  
bias and builds empathy by presenting  
scenarios through the lens of women and  
underrepresented groups.  
Building on the work we did in 2018 to  
address unconscious bias, we integrated our  
training on this topic into our Belong at HP  
development and sponsorship program. A  
3.5-hour facilitator-led workshop focuses  
on promoting inclusive mindsets and  
behaviors, including in our recruitment  
processes. In 2019, nearly 1,000 employees  
attended events run by the Belong at HP  
program. During the year, 63.3% of U.S.  
hires were from underrepresented groups,  
including women, U.S. ethnicities, veterans,  
and people with disabilities (compared to  
57.2% in 2018). 
Raising standards and practices  across the marketing industry  
We encourage our suppliers and partners  
to prioritize diversity and inclusion within  
their own operations. In 2016, we challenged  
our top five U.S.-based marketing agencies  
to significantly increase the number of  
women and U.S. minorities in top creative  
and strategic planning roles on HP account  
   Senior roles are defined as: creative directors and above  (creative department)  chief strategy officer, heads of  account planning, group planning directors (planning  department)  senior account directors and above (account  management)  group executive producers and above  (production department)  department heads and above   (all other departments). 
teams. During 2019, we saw strong  
improvements compared to 2018 for women  
and underrepresented minorities working on  
HP account teams.  
Moving forward, we will continue to challenge  
our marketing agency partners to identify  
underrepresented groups in order to set  
specific goals, plans, and measurement that  
help increase diverse creative talent across  
HP account and senior leadership roles. 
55  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Non account resources 
Overall HP account team 
Overall HP account senior roles  
Diversity at HP's top five   U.S.-based marketing agencies 
Women 51% 55% 55% 
Underrepresented   minorities 19% 28% 20% 
Women 45% 58% 57% 
Underrepresented   minorities 33% 36% 29% 
Women 61% 62% 79% 
Underrepresented   minorities 24% 36% 44% 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
percentage of total 
2017 2018 2019 
Promoting diversity with our  legal partners 
Our legal team is also focused on improving  
diversity among our U.S. law firm partners  
and withholds up to 10% of all invoicing of  
those partners who fail to meet or exceed  
diverse minimal staffing on work for us. 
Law firms are asked to staff at least one  
underrepresented minority or one woman  
partner and one racially ethnically diverse  
attorney, each performing at least 10% of  
the billable hours on HP business. Firms are  
required to track and share data quarterly.  
As of the end of 2019, 94% of firms met the  
requirements, up from 46% in early 2017  
when this initiative was launched. Women  
represented 43% of team members up  
from 23% in early 2017. 
The number of underrepresented minority  
partners increased to 30% at the end of  
2019 up from 21% in early 2017. Overall,  
84% of HP s outside counsel teams were led  
by a diverse partner at the end of 2019 up  
from 73% the prior year.   
In our communities 
We continue to engage with several leading  
industry organizations and conferences  
that promote women, minority, veteran  
and LGBTQ  representation and causes  
in technology, including Professional  
Business Women of California, Grace Hopper  
Celebration (United States and India), the  
European Women in Technology Conference,  
Out   Equal, and others. During 2019, we  
technology-enabled learning opportunities  
for women and girls across multiple priority  
countries. Additionally, we maintained our  
partnerships with organizations such as  
AnitaB.org, Black ComputeHER, Black Girls  
Code, Breakline, and the YWCA's Curated  
Pathways to Innovation. 
Our HBCU (Historically Black Colleges  
and Universities) Business Challenge is  
a business school competition, with the  
National HBCU Business Deans Roundtable  
and the National Society of Black Engineers  
(NSBE). This provides students the  
why the tech industry struggles to attract  
women and how this can be improved. The  
event was attended by representatives from  
government, business, and media.  
To inspire more girls and minority students  
to consider science, technology, engineering,  
and mathematics (STEM) careers, we  
grew our participation in the Hour of Code  
initiative, and in collaboration with Girl  
Rising and UN Women, created access to  
discussion in the UK that drew upon an  
independent HP-commissioned study about  
became one of the founding members  
of Qorporate, a program for companies  
committed to improving opportunities for  
LGBTQ  people and other underrepresented  
groups throughout the global tech industry.  
Our people often provide thought leadership  
by delivering keynotes, leading workshops,  
and participating on panels. 
As part of our Women in Technology program,  
in 2019 HP jointly hosted a roundtable  
Operations 
opportunity to solve business problems,  
gain industry experience, and earn  
technology products. In 2019, 30 schools  
participated, including the winning team,  
from North Carolina Central University. Since  
2017 and through February 2020, we ve  
brought on 10 summer interns from the  
HBCU challenge, four of whom took on full- 
time positions at HP. 
HP and the Information Technology Senior  
Management Forum (ITSMF) have continued  
a partnership to train and develop IT leaders  
in ITSMF's annual Management Academy. To  
date, we have sponsored 12 HP employees  
in this program. Seven have graduated, two  
will graduate in June 2020, and three will be  
part of the 2021 graduating class. Eighty- 
eight percent have moved to a new role or  
been promoted into management at HP.  
HP re-established our partnership with  
the NSBE in 2019 as a member of its Board  
of Corporate Affiliates. We sent several  
representatives to the 2019 NSBE Fall  
Conference to engage with top talent.  
Recognizing that traditional hiring  
practices can screen out qualified and  
talented applicants with autism, in 2019  
we launched our Spectrum Success  
program partnership with Vocational  
Rehabilitation and PROVAIL, focusing on  
recruitment, hiring, and retention. Of the  
five participants during the first year, two  
accepted internships. Watch video. 
We regularly collect feedback to better  
understand and improve the employee  
experience and identify opportunities to  
continually strengthen our culture. In 2019,  
94% of employees participated in our annual  
Voice Insight Action (VIA) survey. Overall,  
employee engagement was at 75%, up from  
73% in 2018 and 67% in 2017, reflecting  
improvements in all regions. 
If improved, the following dimensions have  
the greatest opportunity to positively affect  
engagement at HP:  
These dimensions align closely to our  
reinvention journey. 
Employee  engagement 
During the year, we continued to drive  
engagement in three focus areas: 
56  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
  Developing our people: Bolstering  
  Building our future: Driving innovation,  
  Tools and processes 60% favorable 
  Performance-driven focus 63%  
  Agility 68% favorable 
  Improving the way we work: Enhancing  
learning and development programs that  
maximize career growth opportunities. 
agility, and employee alignment with HP s  
strategy and direction. 
tools and processes to increase employee  
productivity and effectiveness. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
   Data refers to the percentage of HP 2019 VIA employee survey respondents who strongly agreed or agreed with each  statement. 
   Data refers to the percentage of HP 2017 VIA, 2018 VIA, and 2019 VIA employee survey respondents who strongly agreed or  agreed with each statement. 
Growth MIndset My business unit global function actively supports the  learning and development of its employees. 77%  4 
Integrity at HP I can report an instance of unethical conduct without fear of  retribution from anyone. 87%  4 
Quality We do a good job of balancing schedules, costs, and the  quality of our products and services. 71%  4 
Employer of Choice I feel HP values diversity (e.g., gender, race, ethnicity,  language, religion, age, sexual orientation, gender identity  and expression, disability, ideas, and perspectives). 
Dimension Category  Survey Item 2019 Change  from   2018 
2017 2018 2019 
Employee survey results   Areas of greatest improvement 
Employee survey results    Sustainable Impact 
percentage of employees 
  HP is socially and  environmentally  responsible 
  I see HP values  being demonstrated  throughout my  business unit global  function every day 
Operations 
Employee  development 
Human capital development underpins  
our efforts to reinvent and regenerate HP,  
creating the best place for employees to  
grow and develop. Fueled by the talent,  
diversity, and drive of our employees,  
we invest in their career growth and are  
passionate about supporting an inclusive  
culture and practicing a growth mindset on  
which our success depends.  
HP is a company of high performers. Our  
employees are constantly learning, exploring  
opportunities, driving innovation, and  
creating new value. Taking risks and finding  
opportunities to grow daily is critical. In our  
2019 VIA survey, 81% of employees stated  
that their team shared ideas and learned  
from failure.5 
Personalized  development 
Employees participate in a wide range  
of development, including face-to- 
face, virtual, social and self-directed  
learning, mentoring, coaching, and  
external development. We offer a variety  
of collaborative learning experiences,  
connection to a network of subject matter  
experts, and a social learning platform  
where employees share their own insights. 
In 2019, 98.4% of employees participated  
in learning and development activities.  
Employees completed 1.52 million formal  
learning sessions, which totaled 1.60 million  
hours, equivalent to 29 hours per employee.  
HP continues to invest in new learning  
systems, and in line with emerging trends,  
we increasingly offer tools for employees  
to shape their own learning. Our focus is  
to provide personalized learning plans  
for every HP employee and resources to  
develop skills aligned to business needs,  
personal interests, and career goals. We are  
investing in new development applications  
that offer personalized digital and social  
learning content, to enable employees to set  
performance goals, track progress, and gain  
regular feedback and recognition.  
Leadership development  and talent  
We use a multi-tiered leadership curriculum  
to develop leadership skills across all levels  
of HP. Our leadership programs combine  
self-directed learning with experiential  
workshops to enable shared learning and  
networking.  
We offer development to 100% of people  
managers at all levels of leadership, from  
newly promoted managers through senior  
executives. During 2019, we delivered  
more than 250 leadership development  
experiences to over 3,000 people managers.  
57  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
Our strategy is to develop the leadership  
pipeline by investing in emerging and  
underrepresented talent through formal  
programs, mentoring, and sponsorship.  
Our leadership development priorities also  
focus on team development, the future  
working environment, new business models,  
and opportunities to deepen inclusion and  
growth mindset practices.  
For example, HP Catalyst is an 18-month  
development experience for emerging  
talent to strengthen leadership capabilities  
through monthly peer mentoring, coaching,  
and guidance from senior sponsors. Fifty- 
seven percent of participants have been  
promoted or moved into new roles through  
the program. The HP Leadership Experience  
develops an external focus in emerging  
future senior leaders through a six-month  
blended development experience working  
directly with the HP Executive Leadership  
Team and external experts on business  
strategy, scenario planning, immersion  
exercises, and authentic leadership.  
Digital skills  
As technology transforms the world, it  
is essential to accelerate future skills  
development in areas such as artificial  
intelligence, machine learning, design  
thinking, creativity, and problem-solving.  
We continue to develop employees with  
job-specific skills in critical roles, including  
engineering, sales, customer service, and  
supply chain, while also building a digital  
curriculum across HP to fuel our long legacy  
of product development and technology  
innovation. In 2020, we will launch a  
digital literacy campaign along with  
deeper certification programs. Employees  
can assess their digital knowledge and  
complete personal learning plans with a  
digital fitness app, to accelerate HP s digital  
Career pathways  
In 2019, we launched our Power Your  
Possible platform to help employees  
identify new learning and pathways to  
support their career plans and enable  
future job opportunities. We also launched  
an app during the first part of 2020 to  
digitize the onboarding process and  
welcome and support new employees more  
effectively. It includes targeted content for  
students and graduates. 
We encourage employees to continue to  
develop skills internally. Additionally, the HP  
Degree Assistance Program provides funding  
to more than 500 employees worldwide  
each year to invest in and transform their  
careers through higher education degrees.  
In 2019, 33% of job vacancies at HP were  
filled by our own employees, while 100%  
of senior executive roles were filled by  
internal leaders. 
transformation initiative. 
Operations 
We are working to make the connection  
between performance management, talent  
reviews, and career development clear to  
managers and employees, and continue  
enhancing our managers  capabilities  
to enable and empower all employees.  
We advocate that employees own their  
careers and have access to a wide range of  
development opportunities. 
Performance  management and  feedback 
HP continues to develop a strong  
feedback-based approach to performance  
management through an annual  
review cycle and ongoing discussions  
between individual employees and  
their managers. During 2019, managers  
provided performance input to 99%  
of eligible employees. All employees  
receive multidimensional and objective- 
based performance evaluations. These  
interactions are reflected in employees   
individual annual development plans, and  
result in ongoing development experiences,  
stretch projects, and advancement to  
new roles. In our 2019 VIA survey, 84% of  
employees stated they believe they are  
having check-in conversations with their  
manager frequently enough to meet their  
needs.6 This demonstrates the commitment  
HP managers make to connect with  
employees regularly. 
People development  strategy 
As we look to 2020, we will continue to make  
significant investments in the development  
of employees, leaders, and emerging talent,  
with a specific focus on: 
We will measure our impact through  
employee engagement, retention, internal  
employee promotion and progress, speed to  
fill internal future digital skill gaps, customer  
innovation, and business improvement. 
Compensation   and benefits 
HP offers a comprehensive Total Rewards  
package that is both performance based and  
market competitive. Total Rewards include  
salaries, bonuses, incentive programs, and  
a range of benefits designed to meet our  
employees  diverse needs while enhancing  
their wellbeing and that of their families.  
58  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
  Developing a strong pipeline of innovative  
  Supporting career advancement for  
  Building on our high-performance team- 
  Developing an organization that delivers  
  Implementing our digital skills strategy. 
and inclusive leaders. 
employees across all regions. 
based culture. 
on strategic priorities, inspires team  
performance, and enables employees to  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
Valuing and rewarding employees drives  
higher engagement and better performance  
and helps us attract and retain top talent.  
Compensation and benefits are reviewed  
periodically for market competitiveness. 
HP sponsors a global wellness program  
designed to enhance physical, financial, and  
emotional wellbeing for all of our employees  
around the world. Other benefit programs  
vary by country to reflect local market  
practice and employee needs. Depending on  
location, these may include: 
Executive  compensation 
The HR and Compensation Committee  
discharges the HP Board of Directors  
responsibilities related to the compensation  
of our executives and directors and provides  
general oversight of our compensation  
structure, including our equity compensation  
plans and benefits programs. See page 29 of  
the HP 2020 Proxy Statement for detail. 
  Retirement and savings plans 
  Healthcare benefits 
  Wellness programs 
  Insurance protections (e.g., life and  
  Time-off programs (vacation, holidays,  
  Discount programs 
  Flexible work arrangements 
  Stock purchase plan 
  Other benefits 
disability) 
parental leaves, etc.) 
In accordance with U.S. Securities and  
Exchange Commission (SEC) rules, we  
recently reported our CEO pay ratio  
for fiscal year 2019. Our CEO s annual  
total compensation for fiscal 2019 was  
 19,317,972.7 Our median employee s annual  
Health and  safety 
We strive to keep our employees safe and  
healthy so they can do their best work. Our  
environmental, health, and safety (EHS)  
total compensation was  75,013, resulting in  
a CEO pay ratio of 258:1. For more detail, see  
page 71 of the HP 2020 Proxy Statement. 
HP is committed to pay  equity  
Treating HP employees fairly  
and equitably is core to who we  
are. It also benefits our business,  
by helping HP attract and retain  
brilliant people in a fiercely  
competitive market for talent. We  
believe people should be paid for  
what they do and how they do it,  
regardless of their gender, race,  
or other personal characteristics.  
Learn more about our approach  
and performance in 2019. 
Operations 
continue to represent our most significant  
health and safety risks, due to higher  
potential exposure to chemicals and  
machinery related hazards. Managing and  
reducing risks at these plants remains a  
focus, and injury rates continue to be low.  
See more information about our  
environmental, health, and safety  
management system.  
average rates of 0.09 and 0.23, respectively,  
in the U.S. Computer and Peripheral  
Equipment Manufacturing industry (NAICS  
Code 33411). Our manufacturing facilities  
leadership team uses our global injury and  
illness reporting system to assess trends  
regionally and worldwide as a part of  
quarterly reviews. We have internal targets  
to keep lost workday case rates below 0.5  
and recordable incidence rates under 1.0  
(see definitions of these rates). Managers  
assess progress against those targets  
annually.  
Supervisors of employees injured at work  
are required to complete injury and illness  
investigations for all reportable incidents  
and work with EHS points of contact to  
assess serious or complex cases.  
Worldwide, we maintained below-average  
accident and injury rates in 2019, with a lost  
workday case rate of 0.08 and a recordable  
incidence rate of 0.21,8 compared to 2018  
The physical health, financial wellbeing,  
and life balance of our employees is vital to  
HP s success. Our Well Beyond employee  
wellbeing program is designed to serve the  
needs of our evolving workforce and culture. 
Throughout the year, we encourage healthy  
behaviors through regular communications,  
voluntary progress tracking, fun challenges,  
and incentives. Depending on location, U.S.  
employees and spouses domestic partners  
can each receive incentives of up to  550  
a year for activities such as completing a  
wellness assessment or making a tobacco- 
free pledge. As of October 2019, 71.5% of  
eligible employees in the United States,  
and 55.1% worldwide, had joined the Well  
Beyond program. 
HP was honored in 2019 as one of  America s 100 healthiest employers,  assessed for its corporate vision, culture  and engagement, learning, expertise,  metrics, and technology. 
59  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
Highlights from 2019 included: 
  Physical health: We recorded 25 billion  
  Financial wellness: More than 2,000  
  Life balance: To promote healthy  
employee steps through our Well Beyond  
platform worldwide, equivalent to more  
than 12 million miles. As part of our Global  
highlighting the latest sleep science. We  
also rolled out a digital sleep therapy  
tool to employees in Singapore, Spain,  
and the United States. Employees who  
participated saw an average sleep  
increase of 3.5 hours per week. 
Wellness Challenge, we created a Global  
Community Cookbook, which included  
pictures submitted from employees  
around the world.   
employees took part in Financial Wellness  
Month at our U.S. sites. We held a live  
panel discussion with an award-winning  
personal finance author, HP s Chief  
Human Resources Officer Tracy Keogh,  
and a senior vice president from Fidelity  
Investments. We also offered follow-up  
and on-demand workshops as well as  
targeted financial newsletters. 
life balance, we offered a webinar  
Our facilities 
At our 174 sites in 60 countries around  
the world, we are taking action to reduce  
our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions,  
energy and water consumption, and waste  
generation. While GHG emissions associated  
with HP s operations represent just 1% of our  
overall carbon footprint, it is the area where  
we have the greatest control and influence,  
and therefore the greatest ability to make  
immediate impact. By modeling sustainable  
operations, we also demonstrate our values  
in action, and highlight industry-leading  
practices as an example to employees,  
customers, suppliers, visitors, and others. 
Environmental,  health, and safety  management 
HP owns and leases facilities around the  
world. Our Environmental, Health, and  
Safety (EHS) Policy and EHS management  
system (which has been implemented in  
all of HP s operational sites) help manage  
our environmental impact, improve worker  
safety, verify progress toward our goals  
and adherence to internal standards, and  
document compliance with all applicable  
laws and regulations. We investigate all  
allegations that our facilities failed to comply  
Operations 
with applicable laws and take corrective  
action when needed. 
Every year, we perform risk assessments  
at all of our chemical-intensive high- and  
medium-risk locations (including all  
manufacturing sites), as well as at low- 
risk sites when required by law. Internal  
audits are conducted annually at complex  
locations,1 and at least once every three years  
at high-risk sites. During 2019, all nine HP  
manufacturing sites were audited through  
either on-site visits by HP EHS auditors  
or self-audits. Management reviews the  
findings of all audits, and any deficiencies are  
identified and action plans are developed. 
When feasible, we pursue environmental  
management and green building  
certifications at HP owned and leased  
facilities worldwide. As of the end of 2019,  
21 facilities (including all HP manufacturing  
sites) were certified to ISO 14001 (the  
most recent version), with 17 as part of our  
global ISO 14001 certificate. As of the end  
of 2019, seven facilities (including 29% of  
HP manufacturing sites) were certified to  
ISO 45001 OHSAS 18001 for occupational  
health and safety.  
As of 2019, 18 sites had achieved LEED  
certification or local equivalent  two  
locations had achieved SITES certification,  
equivalent such as BREEAM as the basis  
for design. In support of these objectives,  
HP has developed the HP Green and  
Smart Construction Playbook for project  
the LEED v4 Gold Standard or a local  
managers. This provides guidance on an  
integrated design process that covers key  
principles ranging from energy use, indoor  
air quality, water consumption, and waste  
recycling, to smart building technology and  
the user experience. 
To drive improvement in health and safety,  
our EHS management system aligns with  
the American National Standards Institute  
ANSI Z10 standard and the International  
Organization for Standardization  
(ISO) 14001 standard. As part of our  
management system process for improving  
health and safety, we have procedures for  
  SITES for landscaping      LEED BREEAM for building    TRUE zero waste 
and one site had achieved TRUE  
certification.2 All new build-outs target  
60  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
HP locations with green   building certifications 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
chemicals, along with any changes to the  
work environment, are reviewed for safety  
and environmental issues, and any issues  
addressed accordingly. 
to address the core issues. Additionally,  
all locations must proactively implement  
company-wide health and safety standards.  
These specify that any new equipment and  
reviewing workplace hazards and employee  
injuries. Using this system, we identify  
the root cause of a hazard and why an  
injury occurred, and implement solutions  
About our operational  data  
All environmental data reported  
in this section refers to HP  
operations through October 31,  
2019. At that time, we owned or  
leased 174 sites in 60 countries.  
documents representing 92% of  
total electricity use, 86% of total  
HP directly tracked data for  
2019 from invoices and other  
natural gas use, 88% of total water  
consumption, and 100% of total  
hazardous waste. HP also directly  
tracked data from invoices and  
other documents for 100% of  
nonhazardous waste from 25 of  
our largest sites.3  
All HP facilities have assigned technical EHS  
personnel, and our global EHS team provides  
guidance and oversight. We regularly talk  
to our employees about relevant policies,  
processes, and regulatory compliance. In  
2019, nearly 4,300 employees took part  
in 227 instructor-led courses and 17,000  
enrolled in web-based EHS training. 
Promoting a culture  of environmental  responsibility  
We recognize the vital contribution our  
employees worldwide make to improving  
our environmental performance and to  
supporting corporate efforts to tackle global  
issues such as plastic waste.  
Employee engagement initiatives enable  
HP s global workforce to directly contribute  
to our Sustainable Impact goals and  
vision. More than 2,000 HP employees  
from 43 sites took part in the Northwest  
Earth Institute EcoChallenge, which invites  
people to take up a three-week personal  
sustainability challenge. Out of more than  
800 teams worldwide (from HP and other  
organizations), our sites in India, Malaysia,  
Poland, and Puerto Rico earned the top  
spots in the competition. Around 1,500 HP  
employees and their families volunteered  
for shoreline cleanup events at 27 sites  
to support World Oceans Day, World  
Environment Day, and HP Foundation s   
Operations 
40 Days of Doing Good campaign. Over   
9 tonnes of trash were collected. We plan   
to continue this initiative annually. 
On Earth Day and World Environment Day,  
HP employees held events at 53 sites  
worldwide, with a focus on decreasing  
single-use plastics and promoting  
promoting our  ReinventReuse campaign.  
Employees hosted on-site education  
booths and pledged to swap out single- 
use plastic in favour of reusables. The  
campaign generated 25,000 pledges and  
interactions on Yammer (HP s internal  
social site), and employees purchased and  
pledged to use over 6,000 reusable water  
bottles. In collaboration with our on-site  
cafeteria and catering vendors, we are also  
working to offer more reusable options  
for HP employees and events, with the  
goal of reducing waste from single-use  
plastic across the company. For example,  
we eliminated single-use plastic beverage  
containers and plastic straws and utensils at  
our Palo Alto, California, headquarters, and  
in India we eliminated 4 million single-use  
paper cups across all 15 sites. 
emissions during 2019, a 44% decrease  
compared to 2015, making progress toward  
Our global operations produced 215,800  
Greenhouse gas  emissions 4  
Most of our GHG emissions from operations  
are related to the energy used to power our  
facilities. To save money, drive progress  
toward our goals, and reduce our climate  
impacts, we: 
tonnes of Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e  
61  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
  Aggressively reduce energy consumption  
  Increase on-site generation of renewable  
  Procure off-site renewable power,  
through optimization and efficiency  
including renewable energy credits (RECs),  
utility supplier green power options, and  
power purchase agreements (PPAs).  
Scope 2 CO2e emissions 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  
REDUCTION GOAL 
Reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG  
emissions from global operations by  
60% by 2025, compared to 2015 
PROGRESS IN 2019  
HP s global operations produced   
215,800 tonnes of Scope 1 and   
less than our 2015 baseline 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
our science-based goal of a 60% reduction  
by 2025. GHG emissions intensity equaled 3.7  
tonnes of CO2e per   million of net revenue  
  Historical emissions-intensity values were calculated using  HP s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting  and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. 
in 2019, a 5% reduction from 2018. The  
main drivers for GHG emissions reduction  
included decreases in energy use through  
efficiency projects and site consolidation, and  
renewable energy purchases. 
Learn more about how we reduce GHG  
emissions across our value chain in Supply  
chain responsibility: Environmental impact  
and Products and solutions. 
Scope 1 and Scope 2  GHG emissions from operations 
 Americas    Europe, Middle East, and Africa    Asia Pacific and Japan     GHG emissions intensity (tonnes CO2e   million  of net revenue)  
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
tonnes CO2e 
tonnes CO2e   million of net revenue  
climate submissions. 
See our full carbon footprint for 2015 2019,  
HP carbon accounting manual, and CDP  
Energy efficiency 
Energy use is a significant operating expense  
for HP and the main driver of our climate  
impact from operations. Our operations  
consumed 695,420 MWh of energy in 2019,  
8% less than in 2018. Global electricity use  
decreased by 5% compared to 2018, due to  
the implementation of energy conservation  
projects and real estate consolidation. Energy  
intensity equaled 11.8 MWh per   million of  
net revenue in 2019, 9% less than in 2018. 
During 2019, our main tactics to reduce  
energy use included a multi-site chiller  
plant optimization initiative, compressed  
air optimization, smart building initiatives,  
retro-commissioning, conversion to LED  
lighting, and lighting control upgrades.  
Our energy team collaborates with site  
operations teams that are replacing end-of- 
life equipment, to confirm that new high- 
efficiency equipment is being installed. All  
new construction will comply with the HP  
Green and Smart Construction Playbook and  
the LEED v4 Gold Standard. 
In 2019, we implemented 29 projects at  
18 locations, projected to save 8,700 MWh  
annually. Projects included multi-site chiller  
plant optimization to ensure that these  
large, energy-intensive air conditioning  
systems will continuously operate at peak  
Operations 
   Includes purchased electricity and electricity generated  on-site. 
    Historical energy-intensity values were calculated using  HP s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting  and direct and indirect energy use. 
efficiency. A smart building retrofit project  
at our Palo Alto, California, headquarters  
includes digital lighting controls, continuous  
retro-commissioning, and app-based  
climate controls. At our facility in Israel, more  
efficient chillers reduced associated energy  
use by 27% and the savings will pay for the  
upgraded equipment in less than two years. 
For 2020, we are focusing on operational  
and efficiency upgrades for facility  
equipment replacement projects. 
 Stationary combustion (natural gas and diesel)   Electricity     Energy intensity (MWh   million of net revenue)   
Energy use from operations 
2015 2016 2018 2019 
MWh   million of net revenue   
Renewable energy 
By 2035, we aim to use 100% renewable  
electricity to power our global operations.  
In 2019, we procured and generated  
240,398 MWh of renewable electricity  
globally (92% wind, 4% solar, and 4% hydro).  
Renewables accounted for 43% of our global  
electricity consumption, compared to 47%  
in 2018. Sources of renewable electricity  
in 2019 included RECs and IRECs (86.0%),  
direct purchases (12.4%), and renewable  
energy generated on-site and on-site PPAs  
(1.6%). Through these purchases, we once  
again achieved our objective to use 100%  
renewable electricity in the United States  
and helped to advance the global market for  
renewables. 
62  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY GOAL 
Use 60% renewable electricity in our  
operations by 2025 and achieve 100%  
PROGRESS IN 2019 
HP s global operations procured and  
generated 240,398 MWh of renewable  
electricity and attributes, equivalent to 43% 
of our global electricity consumption 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
on Green Power Partnership Top 30   Tech   Telecom list (ranking released  October 21, 2019)  
In 2019, as part of Palo Alto, California s  
CLEAN (Clean Local Energy Accessible Now)  
program, HP built a 1.4 MW solar power  
project (enough to offset the equivalent  
of 408 tonnes of CO2e annually). All the  
available roof space at our Palo Alto  
headquarters is now solar-covered, including  
an 85-space car port. Learn more. 
To help drive further action across our  
industry and the private sector, we are part  
of several global and national coalitions:  
  In early 2019, we were among the  
  In 2018, we became one of the largest  
  In 2016, we joined RE100 led by The  
  In 2015, we signed the Corporate  
Thermal Energy Buyers  Statement.  
first companies to sign the Renewable  
green power users among technology  
and telecommunications partners within  
the U.S. EPA s Green Power Partnership  
Climate Group.  
Renewable Energy Buyers  Principles.  
2018. Commuting generated 200,000  
tonnes of CO2e emissions, also the same as  
the prior year. Our company fleet accounted  
for 33,300 tonnes of CO2e emissions, an  
Business travel,  commuting, and   auto fleet 
In 2019, employee business travel generated  
70,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions, flat from  
increase of 3% compared to 2018, due to a  
10% increase of the overall fleet size. 
By 2025, we aim to reduce GHG emissions  
from HP owned or leased auto fleet vehicles  
by 10%, compared to 2015. 
To reduce emissions, we provide employees  
low impact travel choices through  
collaboration with travel providers, planning  
tools, and transportation alternatives such  
as the Zipcar vehicle share program at  
our headquarters in Palo Alto mentioned  
above. Car sharing decreases the need  
for employees to own a vehicle. HP is  
one of 10 founding members of EV100, a  
Climate Group initiative launched in 2017 to  
accelerate adoption of electric vehicles (EVs)  
worldwide. In support of this effort, we have  
committed to install EV infrastructure at all  
feasible sites worldwide by 2040. In 2019,  
we offered EV infrastructure at 32% of the  
85 target sites, including Barcelona, Spain   
Geneva, Switzerland  Palo Alto, California   
and Houston, Texas. Wherever feasible,  
we require new building constructions  
and leases to include EV infrastructure. In  
Operations 
December 2019, we launched an EV fleet  
pilot at five locations across Spain, the  
Netherlands, Belgium, and France. 
Water consumption associated with our  
operations makes up 2% of our total water  
footprint. This is roughly evenly split between  
direct consumption as described in this  
section (mainly for use in buildings, cooling,  
landscaping, and production of high-purity  
water for manufacturing) and indirect  
consumption associated with generation of  
the electricity we use in our facilities. 
We use the World Resource Institute s  
Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas tool to assess  
the risk of sites and prioritize water- 
stressed locations. To decrease and recycle  
water used at our facilities, we employ  
capital practices, sustainable landscaping,  
infrastructure upgrades, and greywater  
WATER CONSUMPTION GOAL 
Reduce potable water consumption  
in global operations by 15% by 2025,  
compared to 2015 
PROGRESS IN 2019 
Exceeded water goal six years early.  
Potable water consumption equaled  
2,630,000 cubic meters globally, 
less than in 2015 
globally during 2019 for landscaping  
and indoor plumbing fixtures. This  
reuse. We engage internally and externally to  
develop creative approaches to addressing  
water challenges at the company. For  
example, in 2020 we plan to host sessions  
with stakeholders in Corvallis, Oregon, and  
Penang, Malaysia our highest water- 
consuming sites, categorized respectively  
as  moderate risk  and  extremely high  
risk  through a World Resources Institute  
assessment.  
In 2019, we consumed 2,930,000 cubic  
meters of water overall, a 14% decrease  
compared to 2018. This reduction was due  
to water efficiency projects (see below) and  
the resolution of a leak at our Corvallis,  
Oregon site. This leak at our largest water- 
using site, which we resolved within one  
month of detection in September 2018,  
artificially elevated water usage during  
that year. To decrease the risk of similar  
events moving forward, we have improved  
coordination with the municipal water  
provider and are exploring the possibility of  
implementing smart water metering at our  
Corvallis location.  
Water consumption intensity per   million  
of net revenue decreased by 15% between  
2018 and 2019. We reduced potable water  
use by 18% in 2019 compared to 2015,  
exceeding our goal six years early of a 15%  
reduction by 2025. 
HP reused 301,000 cubic meters of water5  
63  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
was equivalent to 10% of total water  
consumption. The company also captured  
and used 1,000 cubic meters of rain water  
for cooling towers during the year. 
Water-saving projects completed during  
2019 included:  
   HP reports all water withdrawn from municipal sources for   use in its operations as consumed. 
     Historical consumption-intensity values were calculated  using HP s annual revenue as characterized in financial  reporting and water consumption. 
  Palo Alto, California: We deployed a  
 Americas    Europe, Middle East, and Africa    Asia Pacific and Japan     Water consumption intensity  (cubic meters   million of net revenue  ) 
smart water management service for  
landscaping that saved 3 million gallons  
of irrigation water, a 42% reduction  
Water consumption  
2016 2017 2015 
cubic meters  
municipal water 
cubic meters   million of net revenue 
     NEWater: ultra-purified wastewater used in  manufacturing operations in Singapore. 
     This category includes groundwater. 
     Direct use of surface water is insignificant and not  included in data reported. Rain water is about 0.03% of  total so is not visible on the graph. 
  Corvallis, Oregon: Our facility became  
88.9% Municipal water 
10.1%      Wastewater from      another organization    
compared to 2018. We are exploring  
additional installations at key high- 
consuming and high-risk sites for 2020. 
the second corporate campus worldwide  
to achieve certification to the USGBC  
Sustainable SITES Initiative v2 rating  
system, the most comprehensive  
program for designing, developing, and  
maintaining sustainable landscapes.  
This builds on the success of our Boise,  
Idaho, site, which became the first USGBC  
Sustainable SITES certified campus  
globally in 2017. We plan to launch a  
Water consumption  by source, 2019  
percentage of total 
1.0% Well water    
Operations 
Wastewater 
Wastewater is not a significant  
environmental risk at HP s operations. Our  
imaging and printing product manufacturing  
facilities generate process effluents that  
are pre-treated, strictly monitored, and  
discharged under government-issued  
permits to municipal wastewater plants  
for further treatment. We implement  
procedures to prevent unauthorized  
discharges of chemicals to our facility  
wastewater systems and ensure that these  
sites do not discharge wastewater directly to  
surface water or to groundwater. 
See detailed data for 2015 2019, the HP  
water accounting manual, and our CDP water  
submissions. 
  Barcelona, Spain: We installed a new rain  
  Multiple U.S. locations: Water efficiency  
  Europe, Middle East, and Africa region:  
similar project in 2020 at our campus in  
Barcelona, Spain. 
water capture system for irrigation usage  
as part of our LEED v4 Gold project. 
projects decreased domestic water use  
from fixtures by approximately 30% at  
our Palo Alto headquarters as well as at  
our sites in Boise, Idaho  Rio Rancho, New  
Mexico  and Corvallis, Oregon. 
Our new smart water metering systems  
reduced domestic indoor water usage by  
20% across 13 sites, compared to 2018. 
Although our facilities do not generate large  
amounts of waste, we employ a global  
policy of  reduce, reuse, and recycle  that  
supports our company-wide shift toward  
a circular economy. HP generated 13,000  
tonnes of nonhazardous waste in 2019,  
as well as 400 tonnes of used electronic  
equipment recovered from HP operations.  
This data is not comparable to the data  
reported for 2018, since it is based on an  
updated methodology.6 We achieved a 91.8%  
64  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
landfill diversion rate globally, and only use  
disposal as a last resort. We reuse electronic  
equipment when possible or recycle it  
responsibly through the same programs we  
offer customers. See Product repair, reuse,  
and recycling. 
TRUE Zero Waste certification is a whole  
systems approach that aims to change how  
materials flow through society. In 2017, our  
Palo Alto headquarters became the first  
technology campus in the state and  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
Waste-to-energy 
  HP sites report nonhazardous waste volumes and  disposition based on information provided by our waste  disposal vendors. For sites unable to directly track  nonhazardous waste, we estimate volumes and disposition  using intensity factors based on similar operations. 
8.3% Landfill  
Composition of nonhazardous  waste and used electronic  equipment recovered from   HP operations, 2019   
36.5% Other  2.7% Metals  
recovered from HP operations 
2.8% Used electronic equipment 
percentage of total  
14.4% Paper 
9.8% Pallets 
21.1% Packaging materials 
the second globally to achieve Gold TRUE  
certification. We are pursuing certification  
at additional campuses worldwide. In 2019,  
we also implemented a centralized trash  
program that removed deskside bins at 26  
campuses worldwide and added recycling  
and composting at more locations. This  
led to a 15 30% reduction in recycling  
contamination and an increase in employee  
awareness about sorting properly. We also  
engaged employees in campaigns to reduce  
single-use plastics and paper cups.  
The main hazardous waste we generate  
is liquid from ink manufacturing facilities.  
These manufacturing sites prioritize  
waste management options with low  
environmental impacts and only use  
disposal as a last resort. Although ink  
manufacturing is a source of hazardous  
waste, HP ink cartridges used by customers  
and in our offices can be recycled and are  
considered nonhazardous in many of our  
major markets. We generated 4,660 tonnes  
of hazardous waste in 2019.  
Operations 
See detailed waste data for 2015 2019. 
See HP s latest disclosure for the U.S.  
Environmental Protection Agency Toxics  
Release Inventory. 
HP is conducting environmental  
investigations and or remediation at several  
current or former operating sites. Some  
historic manufacturing activities of HP and  
predecessor companies used chemicals  
now known to have contaminated soil and  
groundwater. We are also involved in the  
cleanup of sites affected by the improper  
disposal and recycling of HP s wastes by third  
parties. HP is committed to addressing these  
chemical releases and proactively works to  
implement a variety of remediation activities  
in cooperation with regulatory agencies. 
volunteerism. See HP s Global Charitable  
Contributions Policy. By deploying our  
technology to help solve global challenges,  
we create shared value for HP, our  
customers, and society at large. See Global  
education programs.  
Community giving and volunteerism 
By leveraging our scope and scale,  
together with strategic local partnerships,  
we aim to connect our communities to  
greater economic and social opportunity  
through technology and protect our  
shared environment. We create positive  
local impact in the communities where  
we live, work, and do business, through  
corporate contributions, the work of the  
HP Foundation,1 and employee giving and  
65  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Reached  35.17 million 
in HP Foundation and employee  community giving 
beginning of 2016) 
PROGRESS THROUGH 2019 
COMMUNITY GIVING GOAL 
Contribute  100 million in HP  
Foundation and employee community  
giving2 by 2025 (cumulative since the  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
Technology-enabled  education and  skills-building 
 4.77 million  in 2019 
Corporate  giving 
how we support our communities 
 4.40 million  in 2019 
HP  Foundation  giving 
focus focus areass 
Environmental  stewardship,  resilience, and  disaster recovery 
Employee  giving 
 2.13 million  in 2019 
Inclusion and  empowerment for  underrepresented  and marginalized  people 
Employee   volunteerism 
145,000 hours  contributed by  8,850 employees  in 2019 
Operations 
HP Foundation  programs 
HP LIFE: Learning  and employment  opportunities for  aspiring entrepreneurs  
To bridge the  digital divide  and build skills  
for the future, the HP Foundation provides  
core business and IT skills training free of  
charge for start-ups, students, and small  
businesses through HP LIFE (Learning  
Initiative for Entrepreneurs). The program  
offers global access to 32 free courses in  
seven languages, with a focus on providing  
highly accessible and usable content. New  
courses added to the portfolio during the  
year included Growth Engines for Your  
HP LIFE GOAL 
Enroll 1 million HP LIFE users between  
2016 and 2025  
PROGRESS THROUGH 2019 
Enrolled 214,000 
since 2016 
Business and Customer Relationship  
Management. During 2019, we offered HP  
LIFE content offline for the first time, enabled  
by Learning Equality s Kolibri platform,  
which is being used globally by HP partners  
including UN Women. 
We enrolled nearly 800,000 new HP LIFE  
users from 2012 through 2019, including  
49,000 during the most recent year. The  
greatest uptake occurred in Brazil, Egypt,  
India, Morocco, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia,  
and the United States. 
The United Nations Industrial Development  
Organization (UNIDO), HP, and the HP  
Foundation signed a memorandum  
of understanding in 2017 renewing  
HP is committed to enabling better  learning outcomes for 100 million  people by 2025, since the beginning  of 2015, through application of our  technology, training, R D, and financial  contributions. We invest in programs and  provide technology solutions that meet  learners where they are and take them  where they want to go. See how our  products and partnerships are enabling  better learning outcomes. 
66  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
our partnership to further foster  
entrepreneurship and employment  
opportunities in developing economies,  
including expanding our work into Africa  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
(see below). In 2018, HP announced a new  
commitment to reach 100,000 learners  
across Africa over the next three years  
through HP LIFE. As a knowledge partner  
of UNIDO s Learning and Knowledge  
Development Facility, we continue to share  
our HP LIFE platform and have contributed  
to a collection of learning materials on future  
industrial skills with a course on 3D printing.  
See HP LIFE success stories. 
Supporting learners  globally through HP  LIFE and HP LIFE  Centers 
New HP LIFE Center,  Johannesburg, South Africa   
In December 2018, we opened a new HP LIFE  
Center in Johannesburg, to support local  
entrepreneurs. With the HP LIFE program at  
its heart, the center is a technology-enabled  
hub that provides free, innovative learning  
experiences to help participants from the  
community acquire new skills, start or grow  
a business, or improve their employment  
prospects. During 2019, the center served  
as a focal point for collaborations with  
local organizations including Umlambo  
Foundation and Ashoka Southern Africa.  
HP LIFE also visited Thubelihle High school  
in Soweto to raise awareness of the free  
courses and learning opportunities provided  
by the program.  
of Congo, Morocco, Nigeria, Senegal, and  
South Africa.  
Increasing digital opportunities  for women and girls across Africa 
We are partnering in the UN Women s  
Second Chance Education program, which  
serves marginalized and underrepresented  
populations with learning and employment  
pathways whether to re-enter formal  
education or build new vocational and  
entrepreneurship skills. Our efforts are  
access to digital learning opportunities in  
five priority countries: Democratic Republic  
Expanding access to learning   in Mexico 
Also in collaboration with the UN Women s  
Second Chance Education program, as well  
as the BHP Foundation, we launched three  
new HP LIFE centers in Mexico in 2019. These  
centers, located in the states of Jalisco and  
Mexico, delivered online entrepreneurial  
learning courses in digital classrooms to  
more than 6,000 women during 2019, and  
are expected to reach thousands more  
across Mexico in the future.  
Supporting skills development   in Costa Rica  
HP is working in Costa Rica to support local  
people to build digital skills and overcome  
barriers to education through programs  
facilitated by HP LIFE, the dedication of  
focused on addressing gender disparities  
and using HP LIFE to increase female  
Operations 
nearly 200 HP volunteers, HP Foundation  
grants, and public sector involvement. After  
27 weeks learning basic computer skills,  
students progress to HP LIFE courses, to  
be completed over 36 consecutive weeks.  
Students also visit an HP Innovation  
Lab to learn about design thinking and  
develop a business idea to present to  
the group. The Science, Technology and  
Telecommunications Ministry of Costa Rica  
provides a certificate to all students who  
complete the 30-course program with a  
satisfactory grade. Ninety-four people  
received certificates for basic computer  
courses in 2019, ranging in age from 15 to 55  
years, and 84% were women. More than 60  
people went on to start HP LIFE courses.  
BeChangeMaker (BCM):  Empowering social entrepreneurs  
HP LIFE hosts an annual BCM social  
entrepreneurship business pitch competition  
program, in partnership with WorldSkills  
International. In 2019, 270 teams  
entered from 38 countries, and 30 teams  
representing 24 countries were selected  
as semi-finalists. HP employees served  
as team mentors and judges. Teams used  
HP LIFE courses and webinars to generate  
social venture ideas, create a viable business  
model, and pitch their concept to the judges.  
The five winning teams proposed solutions  
for food security, plastic waste, energy  
poverty, air quality, and sustainable fashion.  
The latter idea, from a team in Morocco,  
involved using fish waste to make handmade  
products. Since the competition, the Seaskin  
team from Morocco has been commissioned  
to create a fashionable laptop sleeve for HP  
in that country. 
67  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
reading, writing, and math skills.  
Students from Kauai Community  
College in Hawaii achieved second  
place for the idea to provide  
affordable housing for teachers who  
Student Entrepreneurship  Challenge: Solutions for  Sustainable Impact 
In 2019, the HP Foundation and the  
Solutions for Sustainable Impact.  
A team from Pellissippi State  
Community College in Knoxville took  
first place with its business idea for a  
tutoring app to connect high school  
students in Eastern Tennessee with  
qualified tutors, to help improve  
might otherwise leave the island. 
National Association for Community  
College Entrepreneurship (NACCE)  
launched a competition for  
community college students across  
the United States the Student  
Entrepreneurship Challenge:  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
Imagine Grants 
Through the HP Foundation Imagine  
Grants, HP leaders and country managers  
have discretion to allocate a cash grant to  
approved organizations working to bring  
technology-related learning experiences  
to underserved and underrepresented  
communities. In 2019, we made  1.02 million  
in Imagine Grants worldwide.  
Disaster recovery  and resilience 
HP, our employees, and the HP Foundation  
together provide financial support for  
communities affected by natural disasters  
and emergencies. In 2019, we supported  
response efforts for the California Wildfires  
and the Government Shutdown Response  
Fund and worked with expert partners,  
including the American Red Cross, Feeding  
America, and the Information Technology  
HP Connection Spot:   Mobile disaster relief 
The HP Connection Spot provides  
emergency connectivity to people in the  
contiguous United States who are unable  
to communicate due to a natural disaster.  
The custom-built trailer is equipped with  
Disaster Resource Center (ITDRC), to speed  
recovery and reconnect vital networks. 
HP employees are granted four hours paid  
volunteer time per month. In addition, HP s  
Time Off Community Support Grant allows  
employees to apply for a week of paid  
volunteer time to support more intensive  
engagements and travel service projects. 
HP laptops, chromebooks, printers, and an  
Internet hot spot. Staffed by HP volunteers,  
the HP Connection Spot is also available for  
first responders and nonprofit personnel  
involved in disaster relief efforts. 
Employee  volunteerism 
HP taps into the talents, passions, and  
entrepreneurial spirit of employees to  
make a difference in our communities. In  
2019, 8,850 employees contributed about  
145,000 hours to local volunteer efforts in  
51 countries, with a value of  5.43 million.3  
EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING GOAL 
Contribute 1.5 million employee  
volunteering hours by 2025   
Reached 429,000 
employee volunteering hours 
(cumulative since the beginning   
PROGRESS THROUGH 2019 
Operations 
40 Days of Doing Good 
Our annual 40 Days of Doing Good campaign  
takes place each year in May and early  
June. In 2019, 2,980 HP employees in 27  
countries volunteered 2,150 hours on  
approximately 200 projects. Among the  
many activities were a digital literacy project  
40 Days of Doing Good   results, 2019 
% change compared to 2017,   the program s first year 
161% increase 
in volunteer projects 
80% increase 
in countries 
132% increase 
in volunteers 
22% increase 
216% increase 
in volunteer hours logged 
79% increase 
in organizations receiving grants 
in Costa Rica, skills workshops in Lagos,  
Project organizer Mariano Ram rez with a student visiting the virtual museum gallery 
68  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Nigeria, and mentoring at an HP Science Fair  
in Vancouver, Washington. 
The HP Foundation complemented these  
efforts with grants totaling  0.45 million  
to support the work of education and  
technology-related learning charities  
nominated by our employees. In addition  
to their time, U.S. employees also  
donated  2.13 million in cash to qualifying  
organizations during 2019 through our HP  
Inspires Giving program. The HP Foundation  
contributed  1.96 million in matching funds. 
See Data for detailed figures. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
Volunteering spotlight: Using  Virtual Reality for Human Rights  Education  
During 40 Days of Doing Good, HP  
employees from Guadalajara, Mexico,  
partnered with A Toda Voz A.C., a local NGO  
with a mission to promote inclusive culture  
and the protection of human rights through  
art, design, and technology. 
HP employee Ricardo Rinc n developed  
a virtual reality (VR) app prototype to  
take viewers through a virtual museum  
gallery featuring artwork depicting various  
aspects of human rights. HP volunteers,  
led by project lead Mariano Ramirez, then  
hosted an educational workshop for local  
school children, using the VR app to bring  
the human rights curriculum to life. Along  
with other hands-on activities, the children  
created posters to demonstrate their  
newfound knowledge.  
Leveraging a grant from the HP Foundation,  
A Toda Voz will further develop and improve  
the VR app and continue offering these  
workshops to reach even more students  
throughout Mexico.   
HP has hosted CodeWars, a programming  
competition for high school students, for  
more than 20 years. CodeWars is part of  
HP s continuing drive to engage students  
everywhere in STEM and strengthen the  
future pipeline of innovators. It is now  
the world s largest high school STEM  
competition held by private industry, with  
events in locations across the United  
States, Europe, and Asia. HP engineers craft  
exciting challenges to test the ingenuity of  
student teams. In Houston, Texas, where  
the largest CodeWars event took place in  
2019, more than 700 teens gathered (17%  
of participants were girls). At CodeWars  
Barcelona, the percentage of girls who took  
part jumped from 18% of all participants to  
nearly 30%.  
Operations 
Hour of Code 
Hour of Code is a global effort to  
introduce students to the basics  
of computer science and coding.  
HP employees volunteer to teach  
coding in schools and community  
organizations around the world,  
with a goal to reach underserved  
student communities, particularly  
young women and ethnic  
minorities. These Hour of Code  
sessions focus on introducing  
students to valuable skills,  
increasing interest in computing  
and technology, and building the  
future pipeline of diverse talent  
for HP. In 2019, nearly 1,600 HP  
volunteers from 37 company  
sites participated in Hour of Code  
in 286 schools and communities  
worldwide, reaching more than  
26,000 students. 
    Employee data refers to regular full time and part time employees. Data is as of October 31 of the year reported. Employees  self-identify gender and race.  
Our employees  
69  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
U.S. employees, by ethnicity [% of total] Global new hires, by gender [% of total] 
Women employees [% of total] U.S. new hires, by ethnicity [% of total] 
Women managers   [% of total] Asian 17.0% 
Not disclosed available 8.1% 
 Asia Pacific and Japan 23.3% Hawaiian Pacific Islander 0.3% 
White 64.7% Women 40.2% 
 Americas 32.0% Native American 0.9% 
 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 30.5% Two or more races 4.3% 
 Worldwide 28.7% Not disclosed available 3.8% 
 Americas 34.4% White 56.1% 
 Asia Pacific and Japan 37.5% All minorities 40.1% 
All minorities 27.2% Men 57.1% 
 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 38.6% Black African American 4.8% 
 Worldwide 36.6% Hispanic Latino 12.7% 
Two or more races 1.9% 
Hispanic Latino 8.7%     Includes all management categories (supervisors,  managers, directors, and executives).  
Black African American 3.8% Not disclosed available 2.7% 
Asian 12.1% 
Hawaiian Pacific Islander 0.2% 
Native American 0.5% 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
    Based on business unit, this includes up to four levels from the CEO.  
     This refers to people managers below a director level. 
   This table does not include 2,672 employees of certain majority-owned,  consolidated subsidiaries, for which data was not available. 
    This table does not include 2,672 employees of certain majority-owned, consolidated subsidiaries, for which data was not  available. 
Total 19,583 36.1% 33,569 63.5% 0 0% 53,450 
Americas 12,539 6,594 21 19,154 
Europe, Middle East, and  Africa 6,713 4,341 206 11,260 
Total 33,569 19,583 298 53,450 
Asia Pacific and Japan 14,317 8,648 71 23,036 
Employees (regular full  time and part time) by  region and gender, 2019  Men Women Undeclared  Unknown Total 
Employees (regular full  time and part time) by  employment type and  gender, 2019  
Managers    8 88.9% 1 11.1% 0 0% 9 
Directors 3 100% 0 0% 0 0% 3 
Professionals 313 82.8% 65 17.2% 0 0% 378 
Other 33 94.3% 2 5.7% 0 0% 35 
Subtotal 358 83.8% 69 16.2% 0 0% 427 
Directors 316 30.9% 706 68.9% 2 0.2% 1,024 
Managers    1,301 28.1% 3,316 71.7% 7 0.2% 4,624 
Professionals 12,808 35.4% 23,096 63.9% 255 0.7% 36,159 
Executives   96 30.6% 217 69.1% 1 0.3% 314 
Subtotal 19,225 36.3% 33,500 63.2% 298 0.6% 53,023 
Executives   1 50% 1 50% 0 0% 2 
Other 4,704 43.1% 6,165 56.5% 33 0.3% 10,902 
Women % Men % Undeclared % Total 
Operations 
World workforce  (regular full time  and part time) by  age group, 2019 
30 and under 18.3% 
31 50 63.3% 
51 and over 18.4% 
% of total 
70  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Leading causes of recordable incidents (with and without lost time) [% of total]  
Recordable incidence rate   
Health and safety 2016 2017 2018 2019 
Lost workday case rate  
Lost time injury severity rate    
Leading causes of lost workdays [% of total] 
Asia Pacific and Japan 1.52 1.10 0.50 0.25 
Struck by against cut by 35% 33% 26% 30% 
Overexertion not materials handling 3% 11% 2% 0% 
Other 4% 4% 15% 24% 
Slips, trips, and falls 27% 33% 27% 19% 
Automobile accidents 13% 7% 13% 13% 
Ergonomics materials handling 11% 21% 14% 22% 
Ergonomics materials handling 11% 12% 17% 21% 
Americas 3.42 6.04 4.86 5.15 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 4.21 2.00 0.98 0.42 
Ergonomics office environment 6% 3% 2% 4% 
Global 0.16 0.08 0.09 0.08 
Global 0.22 0.17 0.23 0.21 
Americas 0.23 0.30 0.33 0.33 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.43 0.18 0.52 0.34 
Global 2.88 3.08 1.91 2.00 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0.07 0.06 0.03 0.04 
Automobile accidents 26% 10% 20% 16% 
Struck by against cut by 22% 22% 25% 20% 
Other 8% 12% 15% 13% 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.36 0.13 0.12 0.06 
Americas 0.12 0.11 0.16 0.15 
Slips, trips, and falls 34% 32% 24% 16% 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0.06 0.03 0.02 0.04 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
    Recordable incidence rate is the number of all work-related injury cases requiring more than first aid per 100 employees and  contractors that HP manages. Rates are calculated globally using OSHA definitions for recordability and OSHA calculation  methodologies. The figures are based on employees working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average  in 2018 for the Computer and Peripheral Equipment Manufacturing industry (NAICS  3341) was 0.70. Data for 2016 are fiscal  year. Data for 2017 2019 are calendar year. 
     Lost time injury severity rate is the number of days lost due to injury per 100 employees and contractors that HP manages.  Rates are calculated globally using OSHA definitions for recordability and OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are  based on employees working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. Data for 2016 are fiscal year. Data for 2017 2019  are calendar year.  
    Lost workday case rate is the number of work-related injuries that result in time away from work per 100 employees and  contractors that HP manages working a full year. Rates are calculated globally using Occupational Safety and Health  Administration (OSHA) definitions for recordability and OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are based on employees  working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average in 2018 for the Computer and Peripheral Equipment  Manufacturing industry (NAICS  3341) was 0.10. Data for 2016 are fiscal year. Data for 2017 2019 are calendar year. 
Operations 
Our facilities (also see Carbon footprint)  
71  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Water consumption, by region [cubic meters] 3,952,000 3,535,000 3,243,000 3,406,000 2,930,000 
Energy intensity   [MWh   million of net revenue] 16.7 15.3 15.5 13.0  11.8  
Indirect energy use (corresponds to Scope 2  emissions) [MWh] 697,000 584,000 641,983 594,823  561,569  
Energy use [MWh] 859,620 739,682 807,122 758,898  695,420  
Direct energy use in operations (corresponds   to Scope 1 emissions)    [MWh] 162,620 155,682 165,138 164,075 133,851 
Americas 2,121,000 1,670,000 1,476,000 1,648,000 1,306,000 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 520,000 297,000 319,000 307,000 277,000 
Asia Pacific and Japan 1,311,000 1,568,000 1,448,000 1,451,000 1,347,000 
Voluntary purchases of renewable energy  7,000 4,000 231,526 255,797 231,561 
Supplier-specific renewable energy 24,000 18,000 78,182 18,416 7,301 
District cooling and heating (purchased) 0 0 3,960   5,606    4,224  
Electricity (purchased) 697,000 584,000 638,023 589,217  557,345  
Diesel gas oil LPG      3,116 726 1,462 691 763 
Voluntary purchases of no low-carbon energy 0 0 0 0 0 
Natural gas 159,273 154,822 162,716 161,653  131,551  
Renewable (generated on-site) 232 134 960 1,731 1,536 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 3,960 5,606 4,224 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 0 
Americas 472,000 301,000 260,392 229,653 230,723 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 131,000 93,000 149,301 132,578 119,243 
Asia Pacific and Japan 94,000 190,000 228,330 226,986 207,379 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 24,426 21,596 29,448 31,262 12,342 
Americas 128,691 124,601 129,715 122,564 113,385 
Americas 0 0 0 0 0 
Asia Pacific and Japan 6,156 8,625 3,553 7,828 5,824 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
Reused treated sewage treatment plant water   [cubic meters] 25,000 1,000 15,000 8,000 0 
Nonhazardous waste and used electronic equipment recovered from HP  operations landfill diversion rate [% of total produced] 
Water consumption, by source   [cubic meters] 3,953,000 3,534,000 3,243,000 3,406,000  2,930,000  
Recycled or reused water    [% of total water consumption] 13.7% 25.5% 17.1% 12.2% 10.2% 
Nonhazardous waste, by region    [tonnes] 28,100 27,800 28,400 30,700  13,000  
Hazardous waste   [tonnes] 5,560 5,410 7,620 4,660 
Used electronic equipment recovered from   HP operations  [tonnes] 1,100 1,300 400 
Nonhazardous waste, by type [tonnes] 28,400 30,700  13,000  
Rain water 0 0 1,000 2,000 1,000 
Wastewater from another organization     (NEWater)  746,000 725,000 533,000 407,000 301,000 
Well water 0 58,000 82,000 59,000 29,000 
Global 90.9% 90.1% 90.9% 90.9% 91.8% 
Americas 91.6% 91.2% 91.6% 91.6% 91.2% 
Asia Pacific and Japan 4,700 3,900 5,000 12,600 2,100 
Americas 16,000 15,900 15,000 12,300 7,000 
Municipal water 3,205,000 2,751,000 2,627,000 2,938,000 2,599,000 
Tanker water     2,000 0 0 0 0 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 85.5% 85.4% 87.4% 87.4% 89.9% 
Asia Pacific and Japan 97.2% 95.1% 94.6% 94.6% 96.9% 
Americas 1,600 1,750 990 1,100 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 2,370 2,280 1,090 1,570 
Waste-to-energy 2,300 1,000 600 
Landfilled 2,700 2,900 1,100 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 7,400 8,000 8,400 5,800 3,900 
Asia Pacific and Japan 1,590  1,380 5,540 1,990 
Recycled 23,400 26,800 11,300 
Operations 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
    Accounting for the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, it was not feasible to include hazardous  waste data specific to HP Inc. for 2015. Americas hazardous waste data for 2018 was updated to include all waste not sent  to a municipal solid waste or recycling facility, similar to the other years reported. This conservative approach classifies all  waste managed by our hazardous waste vendor as hazardous, unless we can definitively determine it to be nonhazardous. 
     Fuel consumption from HP s transportation fleet is not included in the Direct energy use in operations figures. 
      Diesel is mostly used at HP for testing generators. In limited cases, diesel is also used for long-term on-site energy  generation. 
     Water consumption  includes municipal water, wastewater from another organization, tanker water, rain water (beginning  in 2017), and well water. Direct use of surface water is insignificant and not included in data reported. Water consumption  does not include reused treated sewage treatment plant water.  
     NEWater is ultra-purified wastewater used in manufacturing operations in Singapore. 
    This includes NEWater (ultra-purified wastewater used in manufacturing operations in Singapore) as well as recycled or  reused water reported by sites globally. Grey water is included, rain water is not. 
     To provide additional transparency, this report presents used electronic equipment recovered from HP operations as a separate  category. That data was included with nonhazardous waste data in prior years. Data for 2017 and 2018 are restated. 
    We reuse electronic equipment when possible or recycle it responsibly through the same programs we offer customers. See  Product repair, reuse, and recycling. 
     For 2015 and 2016, we calculated ozone-depleting substances emissions by tracking sites that reported refrigerant  replacement due to leakage, and applied an intensity factor (based on those actual quantities) for nonreporting sites. For  2017, HP transitioned to a system that tracks all refrigerant work orders company-wide, directly accounting for facilities   refrigerant leakage and use and eliminating the need for extrapolation. R22 is the refrigerant included in this calculation.  We use various tools and sources for global warming potential and ozone depletion values including the Greenhouse Gas  Protocol s GHG Emissions from Refrigeration and Air Conditioning tool, IPCC Second Assessment Report (1995). 
      This data represents safety or environmental violations from a federal or state agency. 
    Historical energy intensity values were calculated using HP s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and  direct and indirect energy use.  
    Renewable energy and renewable energy credits, excluding renewable energy provided by default in the power grid.   
    See About our operational data. 
     Tanker water is well water that is delivered to the site by tanker truck. 
72  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
    This water is used for landscaping and toilets. 
Fines penalties related to the above [ ]  0  0  0  0  0 
Number of violations of legal obligations  regulations     0 0 0 4 1 
Ozone depletion potential of estimated  emissions    [kg of CFC-11 equivalent] 52 24 10 5  19  
Americas 34 5 0 2 18 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1 18 10 0 1 
Asia Pacific and Japan 17  0  0 4 0 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
    HP LIFE users are also included in the overall students and adult learners data above. HP LIFE data from 2015 was tracked  using a different system and is not included due to lack of comparability. 
    Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment  through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. 
      Services  equals the valuation of HP employee volunteer hours. Valuation rates are based on CECP standards.  
Community giving and volunteerism 
    Social investments include all grants made to nonprofit organizations from HP, plus the valuation of employee volunteer  hours. Data excludes contributions to the HP Foundation and employee donations but includes HP s matching contributions  and contributions from the HP Foundation to other organizations. 
    Data from 2015 2018 was revised to allocate HP Digital Schools Awards data to each of those years, compared to the HP  2018 Sustainable Impact Report which included the program to date total in 2018. HP LIFE data from 2015 is excluded from  that total for the reason described in note   . 
Contributions to Cash Matching Program [  million] 
Students and adult learners   benefiting from HP s education   programs and solutions  
HP LIFE users enrolled   n a  53,000 56,000 57,000 49,000 
Social investment  [  million]  6.31  7.60  15.76  14.60 
HP education programs and solutions 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
Employee volunteer hours 54,800 89,500 140,000 145,000 
HP Foundation contributions to Cash Matching Program  0.99   1.66  1.89  1.96 
U.S. employee contributions to Cash Matching Program  1.13  1.70  2.07  2.13 
Products    1.91  0.73  4.97  1.88 
Services     1.41  3.50  4.30  5.43 
Social investment [% of net earnings] 0.30% 0.30% 0.30% 0.46% 
HP Foundation cash contributions  1.93  2.82  4.34  4.40 
Company cash contributions  1.06  0.55  2.15  2.89 
Operations 
4,604,000  5,097,000 5,435,000 6,044,000 7,597,000 
2016 2017 2018 2019 
Products and  solutions 
74  Advancing a circular and low-carbon economy 
90 Product responsibility 
92  Social impact 
97  Products and solutions portfolio 
73  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Appendix Operations Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Footprint Sustainable Impact Products and solutions 
See how HP is partnering to advance   a more circular and inclusive economy   in Europe.  
74  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
and solutions. Across our portfolio, we  
maintain high standards in product safety,  
privacy, and security, while partnering to  
unleash the social benefits of technology,  
enable better learning outcomes, improve  
access to quality healthcare, and support  
diverse and resilient communities.  
Home and Office Printing Solutions,  
Industrial Printing, and 3D Printing products  
Advancing a circular and low-carbon economy 
At HP, we help our customers invent the  
future. By applying rigorous sustainable  
design principles, we help to drive progress  
toward a circular and low-carbon economy  
through our portfolio of Personal Systems,  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
business models and decouple business  
growth from resource consumption.  
This supports our efforts to shrink our  
environmental footprint and that of   
our customers, and to drive long-term  
sustainable impact. 
We innovate to mitigate the effects of climate  
change and accelerate the transition to a  
circular and low-carbon economy for the  
sake of our planet, the health, wellbeing and  
prosperity of people and global communities,  
and the resilience of our business and that  
of our customers and partners. Four key  
strategies guide our progress (see graphic).  
We implement these through the design and  
delivery of our products and solutions, and  
through global partnerships that are focused  
on strengthening natural systems.  
These strategies help to transform industry  
Design out waste  and use materials  responsibly  
Increasing materials e iciency,  using more recycled content,  and replacing materials of  concern. 
Regenerate  natural systems  
Partnering to actively  strengthen the natural systems  that sustain life, with a focus on  tackling ocean plastic pollution  and protecting and restoring  global forests. 
We are  shifting to a  system  where we 
Products and solutions 
Create a low-carbon  future  
Improving product energy  e iciency, to reduce customers   energy consumption and  decrease product use carbon  and water footprints.  
Keep products and  materials in use  
Designing products for long life,  o ering service-based solutions  that improve customer value and  decrease environmental impacts,  and recapturing products and  materials at end of service for  repair, reuse, and recycling. 
Our program has continually evolved in  
response to technological and scientific  
developments, changes to our supply chain,  
and customer demand.  
Product design and development operations  
for our Home and Office Printing Solutions  
and Personal Systems product groups are  
ISO 14001 certified. We conduct internal  
compliance audits and benchmark against  
industry best practices on an ongoing basis.  
Sustainable product  design 
Design plays a critical role in determining a  
product s environmental impacts. We apply  
rigorous design principles to improve the  
environmental performance of our products  
across the life cycle. 
In 1992, we developed our Design for  
Sustainability program (originally Design  
for the Environment) to formally consider  
factors impacting sustainability performance  
throughout the product design and  
development phases.  
We use a science-based approach to  
evaluate our products, identify and prioritize  
improvement opportunities, and set  
goals. Among our main design priorities,  
we work to increase the use of recycled  
and renewable materials and replace  
continually improve product energy  
efficiency  and build in accessibility features.  
75  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
materials of concern  enhance repairability   
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
prototyped, and manufactured in a fraction  
of the time needed by conventional  
manufacturing technologies and processes.  
In an increasingly connected world,  
digital manufacturing processes enable  
product design and build files to be sent  
HP s 3D printing technologies are at the  
forefront of digital transformation in the  
manufacturing sector. With 3D printing  
(also known as additive manufacturing),  
parts and products can be designed,  
Relevant products undergo a range of  
external certifications. 
The analog-to-digital  shift 
HP industrial printing and 3D printing  
technologies are driving an analog-to-digital  
shift. These technologies can enable cost- 
efficient short runs that reduce inventory  
and waste and enable companies to engage  
with customers in new and exciting ways,  
including through customized and quicker- 
to-market products.  
Our industrial printing solutions have  
continued to deliver benefits to customers  
in the publishing, packaging, and labeling  
sectors, including production efficiency,  
waste reduction, and the ability to deliver  
customized and quicker-to-market  
products. During 2019, we have extended  
our technology and expertise into food safe  
packaging printing and textiles printing.  
anywhere around the globe, bringing  
manufacturing closer to the consumer,  
accelerating product delivery, and reducing  
transportation carbon footprints. 
Across the rest of our portfolio, we  
offer several solutions that apply digital  
technology to provide additional benefits to  
traditionally analog processes. For example,  
HP has worked closely with customers  
across product design, architecture,  
engineering, training, healthcare, and  
location-based entertainment to better  
understand their unique insights and apply  
virtual reality (VR) technology to solve key  
pain points. HP s VR solutions for businesses  
can be applied to product development,  
employee training, walk-through simulation,  
and immersive experiences. Augmented  
reality (AR) and VR in employee training can  
replace classroom-style learning for a more  
engaging experience, or they can be used  
to train for specific manual tasks, such as  
performing surgery or building machinery. In  
fact, VR-based training has a 75% retention  
rate compared to 10% for lectures and 5%  
for reading.1  
Life cycle assessment 
HP uses life cycle assessment (LCA) and  
product carbon footprinting (PCF)2 to  
quantify the environmental impacts of our  
products, analyze possible alternatives, and  
target product performance improvements  
that deliver value to our customers and  
our business. We have conducted LCAs  
and PCFs of hundreds of products over the  
last several years, covering our product  
portfolio. As we develop and expand our  
service-based models (which we refer to as  
circular business solutions), we will continue  
to study and quantify the potential they have  
to reduce environmental impacts and drive  
progress toward a circular and low-carbon  
economy. In 2019, we: 
Products and solutions 
  Completed three LCAs of commercial and  
  Completed 76 PCFs of new business  
  Conducted or updated 18 LCAs of HP  
consumer circular business solutions,  
HP Device as a Service (DaaS), HP  
Managed Print Services (MPS), and  
HP Instant Ink. These groundbreaking  
studies demonstrated that each solution  
improved performance compared to  
transactional sales in all LCA impact  
categories.3 See our white paper,  
and Kyocera.  
HP desktops, notebooks, tablets,  
workstations, thin clients, all-in-one  
computers, and displays to better  
understand performance and inform  
ongoing design improvements. 
Assessment Shows Service-Based Models  
Deliver Positive Environmental Impact, for  
more detail. 
desktop, DesignJet, and enterprise  
printers, in addition to a peer-reviewed  
LCA of HP LaserJet printers with  
comparable products from Brother   
During the year, we also commissioned an  
LCA to examine the impacts of replacing  
several traditionally manufactured metal  
parts, used in the production of HP DesignJet  
T3600 large format printers, with plastic  
parts created using HP Jet Fusion 3D  
printers. The plastic parts, which use PA 12  
nylon, may result in up to 74% less GHG  
emissions compared to metal parts. The  
climate impacts of the metal parts were  
due almost entirely to embedded energy in  
the materials, whereas the GHG emissions  
associated with 3D printed parts related to  
the materials as well as manufacturing  
76  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
   EPEAT data for personal systems is for models registered worldwide and for printers is for models registered in the United States. ENERGY STAR data for personal systems (versions 7.0 or 7.1) is worldwide and for printers (version 3.0) is for products sold in the  United States. China SEPA data applies only to products registered in China. TCO data is for commercial desktops, notebooks, all-in-ones, and displays shipped in Europe. Blue Angel applies only to products registered in Germany. All data is for models shipped  anytime during fiscal year 2019. 
    The new EPEAT standard IEEE 1680.1-2018 for computers and displays went into effect January, 2019. HP made significant efforts to update its products to the more stringent requirements, but did not re-register some older products near the end of their shipping  life. As a result, the percent of EPEAT-registered models shipped during 2019 decreased compared to 2018. 
Personal systems 72%   21%   51%   0% 91% 56% 43% NA 
Products EPEAT  identifies high-performance, environmentally preferable products ENERGY STAR   recognizes products with  superior energy efficiency 
Printers 81% 10% 70% 2% 94% 95% NA 66% 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
Blue Angel recognizes criteria in product  design, energy consumption, chemical  emissions, noise, recyclable design,  and take-back programs EPEAT (all) EPEAT Gold  registered EPEAT Silver  registered EPEAT Bronze  registered 
energy. As a result, converting to renewable  
energy for 3D printing of the plastic parts  
may further reduce GHG emissions to up to  
87% compared to metal parts.  
We follow LCA standards ISO 14040 and  
ISO 14044. For PCF, we use International  
Electrotechnical Commission Technical  
Report 62921, a streamlined methodology  
for assessing the carbon footprint of  
computer and display products. We  
continually update our LCA and PCF tools  
to ensure that they provide current and  
accurate information. 
Eco-labels across our portfolio 
% models, for products shipped in 2019  
Product certifications  and disclosures 
Product certifications help drive  
performance across the industry by  
providing comprehensive information  
that enables customers to make more  
sustainable product choices. In 2019, HP  
tracked approximately  6 billion in new sales  
in which it met customer requirements for  
registered product eco-labels (see table).4  
We share extensive product safety and  
environmental information online and  
contribute to the development of new  
standards. Between 2014 and 2018, HP  
participated in the standard development  
process of IEEE 1680.1-2018, which is used  
China SEPA recognizes energy-saving  and environmentally  preferable models 
TCO recognizes various ergonomic  and environmental features  related to visual displays 
to register PCs and displays to EPEAT . When  
the registry went live in 2019, HP achieved  
several industry firsts. 
See also:  
Products and solutions 
  Eco-labels  
  ECO Declarations: In 2019, HP provided  
  HP Carbon Footprint Calculators 
  HP product carbon footprint reports 
  Product compliance declarations and  
  Safety Data Sheets  
ECO Declarations for product groups  
representing 93% of revenue 
certifications 
Keep products  and materials   in use 
We design our products to last, and make  
them easy to repair, so they stay in use for as  
long as possible. Innovative service-based  
solutions, such as HP Device as a Service  
and HP Managed Print Services, reduce  
environmental impacts through extended  
life, device optimization, and easy take-back.  
When customers return end-of-service  
products, our repair, reuse, and recycling  
programs help to cycle products and  
materials back through the economy. 
Durability and  repairability 
HP products are rated highly for durability  
and repairability. We offer refurbishment  
services for products returned to us,  
which extend product life, capture more  
value from natural resources, and reduce  
environmental impact. 
77  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
In 2019, HP repaired 4.62 million units  of hardware (22,500 tonnes) and  remarketed reused 1.21 million units  (6,200 tonnes). See Product repair,  reuse, and recycling for detail. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
HP provides free service documentation for  
most products, supplemented with service  
options and warranties, including through  
HP Care Pack Central. The HP Customer Self  
Repair web page includes information in that  
area, and the HP Parts Store sells PC and  
printer parts.  
Personal systems 
We test the quality and durability of our  
Pro and Elite business notebooks, Elite  
business desktops and all-in-ones, and  
select thin clients using the rigorous  
MIL-STD-810G standard. For further details,  
see our technical white paper about testing  
removal of the RAM, SSD, and battery and  
the HP EliteBook 830 x360 G6, which scored  
9 out of 10.   
The HP EliteOne 1000 G2 Base Desktop PC,  
our most serviceable all-in-one,5 is our first  
the business ruggedness and reliability of  
HP Business PCs. 
Among the personal systems products that  
received high scores from the iFixit product  
repair site are the HP EliteBook 840 G6,  
scoring 10 out of 10 in iFixit s repairability  
assessment which noted easy access and  
desktop with an upgradeable PC base and  
display. This enables customers to upgrade  
and reconfigure flexibly by keeping their  
display from the G1 series.  
Home and office printing  solutions   
Many of HP s home and office printers  
adhere to relevant eco-label standards  
for extending product life and conserving  
materials, including EPEAT  specifications  
based on IEEE standard 1680.2 as well as  
Blue Angel environmental criteria.  
Through modular design, we increase  
upgradeability and enable many of our  
printers to be easily disassembled for repair  
or recycling. Customers can exchange  
parts and have access to a range of repair  
options. Our printers conform with design  
requirements to increase the reusability of  
components and assemblies. Spare parts  
are available until at least five years after a  
printer has ceased production. 
Industrial printing  
HP Indigo and PageWide digital presses  
are major capital investments for  
our customers and are designed for  
upgradeability. Our PageWide Industrial  
web presses were first placed with  
customers in 2009, and more than 98% are  
still in operation. Almost three-quarters  
of Indigo presses have been in use for  
more than five years, over half for greater  
than seven years, and nearly one-third for  
more than ten years. To support repair,  
refurbishment, and upgrades, HP provides  
a wide range of services to customers.  
3D printing  
3D printing facilitates on-demand  
manufacturing of a limitless inventory of  
spare parts, with the potential to transform  
the parts supply chain and support  
extended product use. Using HP Multi Jet  
Fusion technology, we are ramping up  
spare parts production in our own business.  
This enables us to provide spare parts to  
customers all over the world at low volumes  
and low cost, extending the life of HP  
products. Watch video. 
Circular business  solutions 
HP s service-based solutions deliver  
better value to customers with reduced  
environmental impact and capital costs.  
Customers can access the latest technology,  
while HP manages the fleet, and an ongoing  
relationship provides valuable insights on  
end user behavior and needs. Our service  
offerings include regular maintenance,  
which keeps hardware products in use  
for longer and reduces waste. Decreasing  
individual product shipments and customer  
store visits also reduce GHG emissions. At  
end of service, we recapture value from  
materials through a range of product repair,  
reuse, and recycling options. During 2019,  
we conducted three LCAs to quantify the  
environmental benefits of circular business  
solutions compared to transactional product  
purchases (see page 78). 
Products and solutions 
Personal systems 
Our expanding Device as a Service (DaaS)  
offering provides customers the latest  
HP technology while improving cost  
predictability and enabling a better employee  
experience. Business customers can upgrade  
their products to the most current and  
efficient models, with the purchasing and  
consumption model that works best for  
them. Compared with transactional sales, an  
LCA we conducted shows that DaaS reduces  
GHG emissions by 25%, improves resource  
efficiency by 28%, decreases ecosystems  
impacts by 28%, and reduces human health  
impacts by 29% for a notebook PC. These  
improvements are mainly due to keeping PCs  
in use for multiple life cycles, which avoids  
manufacturing of additional devices and  
extends the life of high-value materials.  
Home and office printing  solutions 
HP Managed Print Services (MPS) helps  
clients manage and optimize their printer  
fleets and digital workflows by combining  
hardware, supplies, software, and  
consulting and management services. By  
servicing and maintaining printer fleets,  
and refurbishing and redeploying units as  
feasible, we keep printing equipment in  
use for longer. Preparation for remarketing  
includes testing and secure data cleansing,  
while nonfunctional equipment is recycled  
responsibly in accordance with HP policies. We  
conducted an LCA which demonstrates that  
compared to purchased printers, MPS reduces  
78  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
is running low and sends replenishments  
and new recycling envelopes straight to  
our customers  doors. Customers using this  
service save up to 50% on ink.7 In addition  
See our white paper, Assessment Shows  Service-Based Models Deliver Positive  Environmental Impact, for more detail  about the benefits of circular business  solutions compared to transactional  product purchases.  
GHG emissions by 12%, improves resource  
efficiency by 13%, and decreases ecosystems  
impacts by 12% for a multifunction color  
laser printer. Key drivers include improved  
device efficiency and reduced materials use  
(higher duplexing rates and decreased paper  
waste). The study also shows that electricity  
use during printing only contributes a small  
percentage of overall life cycle impacts. This  
analysis did not consider potentially higher  
reuse rates through MPS, which would further  
increase benefits.  
HP Instant Ink helps home users and  
microbusinesses in 18 countries remain  
productive by ensuring they never run out  
of ink.6 The service anticipates when ink  
to these benefits, an LCA we conducted  
determined that Instant Ink on average  
decreases the carbon footprint of ink  
purchase and distribution by 73%, while  
reducing energy use by 69% and lowering  
water use by 70%, compared with cartridge  
purchase and recycling through traditional  
retail channels.8 Key factors include reduced  
Industrial printing 
HP offers print-as-a-service in our industrial  
printing portfolio with the Indigo click- 
charge, cost per-print business model. This  
model includes consumables, which enables  
us to provide them to our customers in the  
most resource efficient way possible. 
HP Print OS is a cloud-based print production  
operating system that helps our customers  
get more out of their HP presses and  
printers. It makes it easy to manage any  
number of print jobs from submission to  
shipment, increasing press utilization,  
automating production, and delivering  
accurate color consistently between runs,  
across presses, and across sites.   
HP also provides services to repair, refurbish,  
and upgrade our industrial printing presses  
as well as consumables recycling and end- 
of-service solutions. 
materials use (higher capacity cartridges,  
less packaging, and higher recycling rates)  
and simplified distribution (bulk shipping and  
avoided trips to the store). 
Product repair, reuse, and recycling  
Design for recovery  (upgradeability, reusable  parts, ease of disassembly,  recyclable reusable materials,  minimized materials of  concern, etc.) 
A broad approach to capturing value at product end of service 
Repair, remanufacture,  and reuse to extend the  life of products 
Product repair, reuse,  and recycling 
We design HP products to use resources  
efficiently and to last a long time. When  
our products eventually reach the end of  
their service, our robust repair, reuse, and  
recycling programs help to ensure that  
products and materials are repurposed,  
which keeps them at their highest value  
state for as long as possible. This circular  
flow avoids waste and can give materials  
and products renewed life. These efforts  
support our transformation toward a more  
materials-efficient circular model. 
Products and solutions 
PRODUCT RECYCLING GOAL 
Recycle 1.2 million tonnes of hardware  
and supplies by 2025, since the  
beginning of 2016 
PROGRESS THROUGH 2019  
Recycled 528,300 tonnes 
Recycle materials  into new products 
    The repair, remarketing, and reuse rate is based on the weight of hardware products returned for repair, remarketing, and reuse compared to the weight of our product sales during the year. 
     During 2019, 46,600 tonnes of waste electronic equipment was collected on HP s behalf to comply with producer responsibility requirements of the EU WEEE Directive, compared to 110,300 tonnes of HP electronic equipment placed on the relevant markets  during the year. Data includes EU countries in which the authorities or the legislative system provide visibility of the recycling volume allocated to HP. Take-back volumes related to non-EU legislation are excluded. 
      The recycling rate is based on the weight of hardware products returned for recycling compared to the weight of our product sales from seven years ago (the estimated average lifespan of our products). It is impractical for HP to report the recycling rate by  product category, as materials are not typically sorted at collection points. This rate also does not include packaging recycling due to limited data available from recyclers. 
Customer take-back programs 
HP provides take-back programs in 76 countries and territories worldwide9 through a global network of reuse and recycling vendors. These offerings vary by location. 
Program Description Progress in 2019 
79  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
    Descriptions of offerings in this table are as of report publication. Performance data is as of October 31, 2019. Availability of offerings varies by location. View full list of reuse and recycling programs by country. 
Repair, remarketing, and reuse 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
Hardware Our remanufacturing programs help to extend hardware lifespan, reducing environmental  impacts from replacing products that still have useful life. 
Available in 64  countries and  territories 
Ink and  toner   cartridges 
Available in 66  countries and  territories 
We also offer responsible processing for batteries and recycling for large format media supplies, 3D printing supplies, and packaging. 
We belong to compliance systems to comply with producer responsibility requirements of  the European Union (WEEE) Directive    and end-of-life legal obligations in countries across  our Americas, Asia Pacific and Japan, and Europe, Middle East, and Africa regions.  
Consumers, home office, and commercial users have various recycling options for used  equipment, including HP recycling vendors that provide take-back and recycling services   or free drop-off for our products in many countries. 
In the United States, customers can drop off hardware at Best Buy stores through our  closed-loop recycling program as well as Staples locations. U.S. customers can also use   the HP Consumer Buyback Program to exchange equipment for money or purchase credits. 
We provide customers guidance about how to repair their own HP product.  See Durability and repairability. 
HP Device Recovery Service provide customers reverse logistics, data sanitization with  a certificate if they purchase that service, and remarketing for used personal systems  products. 
HP recycles hardware that cannot be economically repaired or reused. 
HP provides free and convenient ways to recycle used HP ink and toner cartridges and  Samsung toner cartridges. 
Home and commercial customers can return HP ink and toner cartridges for free to   17,500  authorized sites worldwide. Free pickup and mail-back options are available in   most countries.  
HP global take-back programs for customers  
Our Hardware Reuse Standard outlines our  requirements for vendors and subvendors who   provide reuse, remanufacturing, or remarketing  services for HP. 
HP Recycling Services offers custom recycling  programs for commercial and enterprise customers,  that include reverse logistics and data sanitization   with a certificate if they purchase that service. 
Watch our video showing the recycling process. 
Recycling vendors must comply with the Hardware  Recycling Standard. 
We publish disassembly instructions for use by   end-of-life recyclers or treatment facilities. 
HP s groundbreaking closed-loop recycling program  uses plastic from recycled Original HP cartridges plus  recycled bottles and hangers to create new Original   HP cartridges. 
See how we recycle ink cartridges and toner cartridges. 
Recycling vendors must comply with the   HP Printing Supplies Recycling Policy. 
4.62 million units of hardware repaired  (22,500 tonnes) 
4% overall repair, remarketing,  and reuse rate of relevant HP  hardware sales worldwide   
117,400 tonnes of hardware recycled 
17% overall recycling rate of  relevant HP hardware  sales worldwide     
14,300 tonnes of HP LaserJet toner  cartridges recycled 
83% of materials recovered  used in other products,  and 0% went to landfill 
Products and solutions 
1.21 million units of hardware  remarketed and reused  (6,200 tonnes) 
91% of total volume of  products and materials  taken back in 2019 was  reused or recycled by  HP or by a third party 
1,400 tonnes of HP ink cartridges  recycled 
74% of materials recovered  used in other products,  and 0% went to landfill 
reach end of use.  
Personal systems life cycle  management 
When HP personal systems products  
reach end of use, we support responsible  
collection and processing to recover  
and reuse as much material as possible  
and reduce negative impacts on the  
environment and communities. Through  
HP Recover and Renew Services, business  
customers can securely recover, repurpose,  
or recycle HP or non-HP devices10 when they  
80  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
  HP Sanitization Services: Confidential  
  HP Recycling Services: Devices are  
  HP Device Recovery Services: We buy  
disposal have been met. See the HP  
hardware reuse standard. 
data is securely erased according to the  
NIST 800-88 standard , or the storage  
media is destroyed, before removing or  
recycling customers  old devices.  
recycled securely, giving the materials a  
new life. Customers receive a certificate  
of data sanitization if they purchase  
a report detailing the environmental  
benefits, and peace of mind that relevant  
requirements and regulations governing  
used devices securely to give them  
new purpose, extend their lifespans,  
and reduce negative environmental  
impact. Customers receive residual  
value, a certificate of data sanitization,  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
personal systems products.  
Through our closed-loop recycling program  
for hardware, customers can return used  
electronic products to any Best Buy store in  
the United States. Learn more.  
See additional examples of Eco Solutions  
that service. We help customers make  
a smooth transition to new devices,  
adhering to customer policies for  
device end of use and supporting social  
initiatives and environmental directives.  
See the HP hardware recycling standard.  
HP ink and toner cartridge  recycling and workplace  sustainability 
Research conducted on behalf of  
HP in 10 countries globally revealed  
that printer ink cartridges are not  
recycled in 40% of workplaces  
included in the survey.11 HP makes  
it easy and free for customers to  
recycle Original HP ink and toner  
cartridges through our HP Planet  
Partners program, so those  
cartridges can be used to make  
new products.  
Product refurbishment and  recycling in industrial printing 
HP Indigo helps customers reduce  
environmental impacts through product  
refurbishment and recycling. During 2019,  
we refurbished 301 tonnes of HP Indigo  
presses and reused 219 tonnes of spare  
parts (about 56% of parts returned), in  
addition to recovering 485 tonnes of  
binary ink developer (BID) components and  
1,584 tonnes of supplies for recycling.  
This complemented our efforts to reduce  
virgin materials use. Approximately 17% of  
all plastic used in HP Indigo manufactured  
products during the year contained  
postconsumer recycled plastic content,  
primarily in our BID components and photo  
imaging plate capsules.  
We reduced the amount of imaging oil  
needed for HP Indigo press operation  
through onboard recycling and reuse  
systems. In addition, we saved 1,013 tonnes  
of materials through reduced packaging for  
our concentrated inks.  
Material reusability and recycling  in 3D printing 
HP Jet Fusion 3D printers enable industry- 
leading surplus material reusability of up to  
80%12 for plastics.   
Complementing our HP Planet Partners  
program, which offers free recycling of  
3D print cartridges in select countries, the  
nylon materials HP PA 11 and HP PA 12,  
as well as HP PA 12 GB (PA 12 with glass  
beads), used in our printers also offer the  
potential for recycling of printed parts as  
the technology scales. We have worked with  
several customers to develop and prove the  
capability to recover and recycle scrap 3D  
printed parts from customers into materials  
for injection molding. Moving forward, we  
are focused on expanding these efforts in  
the United States, the European Union, and  
other regions.  
Product reuse and recycling  vendors  
We work with a global network of vendors to  
provide product reuse and recycling services  
to customers around the world. 
During 2017, to promote transparency and  
drive social and environmental standards  
in the electronics industry supply chain, we  
published a detailed list of our recycling  
vendor sites globally, an IT industry first. In  
the current list, we also added reuse vendor  
sites. This reflects our confidence in HP s  
vendor network and addresses customer  
and stakeholder expectations about  
disclosure. We update that list annually,  
including in 2019. 
Products and solutions 
Vendor audits 
Our specialized reuse and recycling vendors  
are required to follow environmentally  
responsible processing techniques and  
comply fully with relevant regulations. HP  
prefers our vendors to attain third-party  
certification (R2, e-Stewards, or WEEELABEX)  
nonconformances must submit corrective  
action plans within 30 days and address those  
items within 90 days. In extreme cases, we  
81  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Audits assess vendors  environmental,  
health, and safety practices and performance,  
and ensure there is no  leakage  of  
materials to facilities outside our approved  
vendor network. Vendors with identified  
in line with EPEAT  and HP Recycling  
Standards. In addition, we commission third- 
party audits to monitor vendor conformance  
with our high standards and ensure that  
returned items are processed appropriately.  
We contract with Environmental Resources  
Management (ERM) to audit vendors for  
conformance with the following policies and  
vendor standards: 
  Export of Electronic Waste to Developing  
  HP Supplier Code of Conduct 
  Reuse and Recycling Standards 
Countries Policy 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
will cease business with vendors that lack  
sufficient transparency or are unwilling to  
make the changes we require. 
Through ERM, HP audited 34 vendor  
facilities in 24 countries during 2019.  
This included repeat audits of 30 vendor  
facilities to evaluate their efforts to  
improve performance. Because 12% of  
major nonconformances occurred at sites  
audited for the first time, HP's engagement  
brought best practices, enabling immediate  
performance improvements. HP has  
closed investigations of 100% of the major  
nonconformances identified in 2019. Most  
sites with major nonconformances will be  
re-audited the following year to determine  
whether improvements are sustained. 
Immediate priority findings13 are the most  
serious type of vendor nonconformance and  
require immediate action. During a site audit  
in 2019, we identified one immediate priority  
finding, related to water management. We  
worked closely with the vendor to resolve  
this finding within 30 days, and will re-verify  
closure during our next site audit in 2020. 
Read a statement from ERM. 
   As of April 2020. 
   Includes site security and controls, management systems,  labor, data destruction, transboundary shipments, and  approved dispositions of processed materials. Findings  related to data destruction were limited gaps in processes,  not breaches of data security. 
Subvendor use and audits 8% 3% 
Other  16% 34% 
Repeat audits 23 28 30 
Major nonconformances  identified 45 55 59 
Initial audits 9 13 4 
Countries 15 20 24 
Health and safety 36% 34% 
Environment 18% 14% 
Insurance 11% 5% 
Immediate priority  findings 1 2 1 
Major nonconformances  resolved  100% 100% 100% 
Hazardous substance  emergency response 11% 10% 
Categories of   major nonconformance 
Reuse and recycling  vendor audits 
percentage of total  
2017 2018 2019 
Create a low- carbon future 
The energy consumed by our products  
during use is one of the largest contributors  
to our carbon and water footprints. To  
help our customers decrease energy  
consumption and GHG emissions, we design  
for energy efficiency and offer convenient  
and more sustainable service-based  
solutions. We use multiple metrics to assess  
progress and drive improvement. 
HP was recognized as an ENERGY STAR   Partner of the Year in 2019, and again   in 2020.  
Product energy  efficiency 
Personal systems  
Since 2010, the energy consumption of our  
personal systems products dropped by 50%,  
on average, despite the general increase in  
software power demands during that period.  
This included average reductions in energy  
consumption of 54% in desktops, 38% in  
notebooks, and 38% in workstations.14  
Ongoing design improvements in 2019,  
including more efficient CPUs and power  
supplies, contributed to continued  
reductions in typical energy consumption of  
Products and solutions 
   The average energy consumption of HP products was estimated annually between 2010 and 2019 using high-volume  product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume personal systems product lines include  notebook and desktop computers, tablets, all-in-ones, workstations, thin clients, and displays. 2019 Desktops, Notebooks,  and Workstations data are averages of performance data for multiple product lines weighted by units sold. 2017 and 2018  Desktops, Notebooks, and Workstations data are non-weighted averages of performance data for multiple product lines. Data  in the  Overall  row for all years stated is weighted by units sold. 
our desktops, notebooks, and workstations.  
A continued shift toward smaller form factor  
desktops, which tend to use less energy, was  
also a factor. 
Between 2011 and 2019, we reduced  
the annual energy consumption of HP  
EliteBook 840 or equivalent by 47% and HP  
EliteDesk 800 small form factor desktops  
by 40%. In 2019, 15 Elite Displays made the  
ENERGY STAR  most efficient list. During  
the year, 100% of HP business desktops  
used high-efficiency (ECOVA 80 ) internal  
power supplies.   
Home and office printing  solutions 
Through ongoing innovations such as  
improved fuser technology, increased print  
speeds, and enhanced power management,  
82  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Notebooks 0% 32% 34% 38% 
Workstations 0% 36% 34% 38% 
Overall 0% 25% 34% 43% 44% 50% 
Desktops  0% 49% 47% 54% 
Reduction in energy consumption of HP personal systems products  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
2010 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
% decrease since 2010 
we have driven a multiple decade trend to  
improve the energy efficiency of HP LaserJet  
products. This helps our customers reduce  
energy use in their homes and offices.  
During 2019, we continued to achieve energy  
efficiency gains in our LaserJet products and  
saw an ongoing shift in the inkjet printer  
portfolio mix toward more efficient models. 
Other technological breakthroughs have  
expanded on these gains. For example, HP  
A3 PageWide printers and multifunction  
printers consume up to 70% less energy15  
savings are primarily due to use of a fixed  
printhead (so that only the paper moves  
in the printer) as well as exceptionally low  
sleep mode power use. 
than comparable laser printers and reduce  
carbon footprint by up to 45%.16 These  
During 2019, 94% of our home and office  
printer models shipped were ENERGY STAR  
certified. We continue to shift our portfolio to  
ENERGY STAR 3.0, a mark of top performing  
imaging equipment. For example, HP Color  
LaserJet and LaserJet Enterprise printers  
are ENERGY STAR 3.0 certified. Original HP  
Toner cartridges with JetIntelligence deliver  
energy-efficient printing of premium-quality  
pages and a lower carbon footprint. Printers  
that use HP EcoSmart lower-melt black  
toner consume 21% less energy, on average,  
than the previous generation of printers  
using JetIntelligence cartridges did when the  
printers were released.17  
2002 1998 1994 1984 2006 2014 2018 2010 
Energy efficiency of selected high-volume   HP LaserJet printers, 1994 2018 
watts page printed 
48% of our overall carbon footprint. The  
decrease of 3% in absolute emissions from  
product use compared to 2018 was due to  
a 5% combined decrease in PC and printer  
electricity consumption of models shipped  
in 2019 and a 2% reduction in emissions  
associated with print consumables such as  
paper and cartridges.  
Fifty percent of product use GHG emissions  
was due to electricity use. Paper used by  
customers in HP printers represented 41%,  
while consumption of ink, toner, and resin  
supplies accounted for another 9%. HP is  
Product use carbon  and water footprints  
GHG emissions from product use equaled  
22,500,000 tonnes of CO2e in 2019,  
Products and solutions 
   98% decrease from 1994 to 2018 
   81% decrease from 2011 to 2018 
are also helping to reduce or avoid emissions  
through carbon offsets and sequestration. 
Product use represented 76% of our  
water footprint, due to the considerable  
amounts of cooling water required during  
electricity generation as well as water use  
related to paper production. Indirect water  
consumption related to product use equaled  
187,000,000 cubic meters, 4% lower than  
the prior year, due to the same factors that  
decreased GHG emissions (see page 82). 
See product use carbon and water footprint  
taking steps to make paper use in printing  
more efficient, through product design  
features such as pull printing and automatic  
two-sided printing. New carbon neutral  
printing and sustainable forestry initiatives  
83  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
PRODUCT USE GHG EMISSIONS  
INTENSITY REDUCTION GOAL 
Reduce HP product use GHG emissions  
intensity by 30% by 2025, compared to  
PROGRESS THROUGH 2019  
decrease achieved 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
Commitment to eliminate plastic pollution  
at its source. The three key principles of  
its framework eliminate, innovate, and  
circulate underpin our broad approach to all  
materials used in our products and packaging.  
Foundation New Plastics Economy Global  
Design out waste  and use materials  responsibly 
To create a circular and low-carbon  
economy, we must gain the most value  
possible from the materials we use. Waste  
is an opportunity for ongoing improvement.  
We work to eliminate waste through  
innovative design, and use materials  
thoughtfully and responsibly so that they  
can safely and efficiently circulate through  
the economy. 
HP is a signatory to the Ellen MacArthur  
Replace materials of  concern  
We aspire to a world where our products and  
operations use materials and chemicals that  
cause no harm. For more than two decades,  
we have worked to move the electronics  
industry toward safer alternatives to  
chemicals of concern. See key milestones in  
our Green Chemistry Timeline. 
The HP Materials and Chemical Management  
Policy guides how we specify materials and  
Key milestones 
  In October 2019, we announced a  200 million commitment over five or more  
  We continued to expand our full materials disclosure program, which requires  
  As part of our process chemicals management, we continued to gather chemical  
  As of year-end 2019, 98.5% of the total mass of HP products consists of chemicals  
  In the 2019 CFP survey, HP was ranked  3 out of 31 participating companies  
years to further develop water-based solutions for printing digitally on corrugated  
packaging and textiles. This builds on HP s efforts to accelerate more sustainable  
printing technologies. 
suppliers to report an ingredients list and the amount of each material used, with  
provisions to protect confidential business information. During 2019, we collected  
an inventory of more than 90% of the substances used by our suppliers by product  
weight for EPEAT  2019-registered commercial personal systems products.  
data from our suppliers, and identified and confirmed implementation of  
overall, and shared our answers and scores publicly.  
and materials that are considered safer alternatives.19 
corrective actions.  
  Restrict chemicals of concern for products, packaging,    and manufacturing processes 
  Eliminate unnecessary packaging materials and space 
  Eliminate hard-to-recycle plastic for packaging 
  Increase materials e iciency 
  Require sustainable fiber (certified or recycled) for    packaging and paper 
  Increase use of recycled plastics and metals for products 
  Generate demand for recycled content by setting targets     to increase its use in our products and packaging  
  Choose materials with higher recycling rates worldwide 
  Enable circularity by using safer chemical alternatives in    products and packaging 
Products and solutions 
chemicals for use in products, packaging,  
and manufacturing processes. This policy  
applies to all HP employees and businesses  
worldwide and extends to our suppliers. Our  
approach includes:  
84  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
When exploring safer alternatives to  
materials currently in use, we follow a  
precautionary approach and use the  
National Academies of Science publication  
A Framework to Guide Selection of  
Chemical Alternatives and incorporate  
the GreenScreen  for Safer Chemicals  
methodology. We screen all of our ink  
ingredients using the GreenScreen  
methodology. For more information on our  
progress toward safer alternatives, see our  
Green Chemistry Timeline. 
  Prioritizing materials for replacement by  
  Proactively identifying and evaluating  
  Working with and guiding our suppliers  
assessing published lists of substances  
of concern, customer preferences, new  
or upcoming legal requirements, and  
sound scientific analysis that reveals  
a potential impact on human health  
or the environment. See HP s General  
materials used in our products and  
throughout our supply chain, and publicly  
providing information on the material  
content of typical HP personal systems  
and printers. 
Specification for the Environment (GSE).  
on replacing substances of concern with  
environmentally preferable alternatives.  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
helped CEPN create a chemical prioritization  
framework, and provided input on a  
green chemistry screening process and  
conformance assurance program. We are  
also involved in several projects under Clean  
Production Action, including the Business- 
NGO Working Group (BizNGO) and the  
Chemical Footprint Project (CFP). 
Learn about our approach to responsible  
minerals sourcing, which helps ensure there  
is no connection between the materials used  
in HP products and armed violence or human  
rights abuses. 
Production Network (CEPN), during 2019 we  
HP contributes to standards, legislation,  
and improved approaches to materials use  
in the IT sector. As a participating member  
of Green America s Clean Electronics  
Increase materials  efficiency 
We work to continually reduce the volume  
of materials in new products to lower the  
impacts associated with raw materials  
extraction and manufacturing. In 2019,  
we used 1.02 million tonnes20 of materials  
sustainably sourced. 
Materials use intensity (tonnes   millions  
of net revenue) rose by 8% for personal  
systems, compared to 2018, due partly to  
an increase in the average size of displays.  
in our products and packaging, of which  
398,000 tonnes (39%) were renewable21 and  
   Personal systems and home and office printers values are based on individual product data. Estimates for home and office  printers volumes do not include graphic arts, industrial, web press printers, scanners, or ink or toner cartridges. Product  data for personal systems is based on calendar year for 2015 and 2018, and fiscal year for 2016 2017 and 2019. Personal  systems data for 2015 2018 are updated to reflect tonnes and not U.S. tons. Product data for home and office printers is  based on calendar year for 2015 and fiscal year for 2016 2019. Home and office printers data for 2018 are updated to correct a  calculation error. Net revenue data is based on HP s fiscal year. In some cases, segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 
Despite that change, materials use intensity  
in 2019 was 7% lower than in 2016, due to a  
shift toward thinner and lighter notebooks  
as well as a move toward ultra-small form  
factors for desktops and workstations. 
Materials use intensity in home and office  
printers increased by 3% between 2018 and  
2019, due to modest average selling price  
declines for printers. Moving forward, we  
plan to evolve our materials use intensity  
metrics for printers to reflect the entire  
printing system as well as customer use of  
our products. 
    This value is stated as 0.0 due to rounding. 
Batteries 0.1 0.1 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   
Total 7.0 7.0 5.8 6.0 6.5 48.4 53.9 51.3 59.2 61.0 
Metal  3.3 2.7 2.3 2.5 2.7 15.4 17.6 17.0 19.4 19.2 
Plastic 1.4 1.5 1.3 1.3 1.5 30.9 33.8 31.6 36.8 38.9 
PCAs 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 1.7 2.0 2.3 2.7 2.5 
Wires cables 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 
LCDs 1.1 1.6 1.2 1.2 1.4 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   
Estimated materials use intensity for HP high-volume   personal systems and home and office printers  
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2016 2018 2019 
Personal systems Home and office printers 
tonnes   millions of net revenue 
HP designs its printing supplies to  help customers reduce materials use.  We provide options such as high-yield  cartridges, continuous ink or toner  systems (CISS or CTSS), HP Instant Ink,  and HP Managed Print Services, which  decrease the amount of printer cartridge  material used per page printed and help  customers be productive with a lower  environmental footprint.  
Products and solutions 
In partnership with industry-leading  companies, we continue to innovate  and expand our portfolio of materials  for 3D printing properties that answer  customer needs for strong, lightweight,  flexible, and functional parts across an  increasing range of applications. In 2019,  we added BASF Ultrasint  and Lubrizol  ESTANE  TPU powders to our portfolio. 
Increase recycled  content 
We are both a supplier and user of  
recovered materials, incorporating  
increasing amounts of recycled and  
recyclable content into new HP products.  
This helps to accelerate global market  
development for recovered and recycled  
materials, to support progress toward a  
circular economy. Our primary focus is on  
recycled plastic. During 2019, we used a  
total of 25,560 tonnes of postconsumer  
recycled content plastic in HP products.  
We are also working to increase our use of  
recycled metals (see sidebar at right). 
HP s strategy to use plastics responsibly   
85  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
  Eliminate plastic for example, making  
our products smaller and lighter and  
removing plastic from packaging where  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
   Segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 
Learn how we are helping to tackle the  
problem of ocean-bound plastics and  
generating social and economic value for  
people in Haiti. 
  Replace virgin plastic with recycled  
  Source recycled plastic from  
  Invest in take-back and recycling and  
  Substitute plastic with more sustainable,  
Large format printers N A N A N A N A 200 
HP toner cartridges 2,437 3,493 2,921 2,746 3,565 
HP ink cartridges 6,282 5,517 5,901 5,354 5,384 
Total 18,160  21,250 25,560  
Personal systems N A N A 8,080 8,360 9,650 
Home and office printers N A N A 1,260 4,790 6,760 
foam for molded pulp. 
plastic in line with our goal to use 30%  
postconsumer recycled content plastic in  
our personal systems and print products  
locations where HP can have positive  
environmental and social impact for  
example, we have developed an ocean- 
bound plastics supply chain in Haiti. 
encourage our customers to take action  
with us   for example, our HP Planet  
Partners program is available in 76  
countries and territories worldwide. 
alternate materials as we are doing in  
our packaging initiatives, swapping plastic  
Postconsumer recycled content plastic used in HP products 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
Ink and toner cartridges 
Through the HP Planet Partners recycling  
program, our customers in 66 countries and  
territories worldwide return used HP Original  
ink and toner cartridges. We disassemble  
or shred cartridges into their component  
parts, combine recovered plastic with other  
postconsumer plastic (such as hangers and  
plastic bottles) or new plastic, and cycle it  
back into the supply chain for use in new HP  
supplies. See how HP recycles ink cartridges  
and toner cartridges.  
POSTCONSUMER RECYCLED   
CONTENT PLASTIC GOAL 
Use 30% postconsumer recycled content  
plastic across HP s personal systems and  
print product portfolio by 202522 
PROGRESS IN 2019 9% 
Products and solutions 
Reducing the  environmental impacts   of metals 
In 2019, metal represented 41%  
of materials used in personal  
systems products and 31% in home  
and office printers. Aluminum  
and magnesium are two of the  
main metals we use, primarily  
for thin and light notebook  
enclosure parts. Although these  
metals contain an amount of  
recycled content when purchased  
on commodity markets, it is  
significantly less than the metals  
we are working to develop up  
to 90% post-industrial recycled  
content magnesium and up to  
75% post-industrial recycled  
content aluminum that meet  
the demanding industrial design  
requirements of our products. This  
decreases environmental impacts  
associated with mining virgin  
materials and reduces embodied  
energy and associated GHG  
emissions. We plan to introduce  
these metals in selected HP  
products during 2020.  
with more than 30% recycled content by  
weight of plastic. Our HP Sprocket Select  
printer is made with more than 50% recycled  
plastic by weight.26 
tonnes of recycled plastic. This has kept  
875 million HP cartridges and an estimated  
114 million apparel hangers and 4.69 billion  
postconsumer plastic bottles out of  
landfills, instead upcycling these materials  
for continued use. More than 82% of our  
Original HP ink cartridges contain 45 70%  
postconsumer recycled content, and 100%  
of Original HP toner cartridges contain  
5 45% postconsumer or post-industrial  
recycled content.24 
Through 2019, we manufactured over  
4.6 billion HP ink and toner cartridges  
using more than a cumulative 116,00023  
In 2019, we used 6,760 tonnes of  
postconsumer recycled content plastic in  
our home and office printers, 4.0% of total  
plastics use. Through our closed-loop  
recycling program for hardware, customers  
can return used electronic products to  
any Best Buy store in the United States.  
Customers who return printers receive a 15%  
discount on any new HP inkjet printer. Best  
Buy recyclers process returned hardware  
and recover recycled plastic resin for HP to  
use in new printers.  
HP Tango Terra, the world s most  
sustainable home printing system,25 is made  
86  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
Personal systems  
We continue to expand use of postconsumer  
recycled content plastic in our personal  
systems 9,650 tonnes in 2019, 15.5%  
of overall plastic. Our business PCs and  
displays include 21.5% postconsumer  
recycled content plastic, on average.27  
Two new personal systems products are  
milestones in our efforts to increase recycled  
plastic use across our portfolio while  
building circular, more responsible supply  
Sustainable accessories 
The HP Renew series of laptop  
bags is designed with the  
environment in mind. The series  
is made with the equivalent of  
13.6 recycled 16.9 ounce bottles.  
protector also made from recycled  
plastic bottles, is knitted to  
shape, minimizing manufacturing  
waste. The sleeve is made with  
the equivalent of 8 recycled 16.9  
ounce bottles. 
includes a backpack, tote, topload,  
and slim briefcase that are  
made from recycled materials,  
including recycled PET from  
plastic bottles. The largest bag  
The HP Renew Sleeve, a laptop  
and recycling programs.  
Learn how we gain more value from  
materials through our product repair, reuse,  
chains that prevent plastics from reaching  
our oceans. The HP Elite Dragonfly, launched  
in 2019, is the world s first notebook with  
ocean-bound plastics. Its speaker enclosure  
component is made with 50% postconsumer  
recycled content plastic, including 5% ocean- 
bound plastics. Our HP EliteDisplay E273d  
is also manufactured with ocean-bound  
plastics, another world first. Read more.   
Paper and forestry  products  
The paper used by our customers in HP  
products represents about 20% of our  
carbon footprint and 35% of our water  
footprint. We help customers print more  
responsibly by designing printers and  
software to optimize paper use, defaulting  
many print fleets to double-sided printing,  
reducing paper waste through HP  
Managed Print Services, and improving  
the recyclability of paper by developing  
solutions for paper de-inking.  
Through the HP Sustainable Forests  
amount of forest would typically produce  
more paper than used by HP s consumer  
printers annually. 
Collaborative we aim to protect and   
restore 200,000 acres of forests. This  
In 2016, we set a goal to eliminate  
deforestation from our paper and paper- 
based packaging supply chain. Since 2016,  
we have met our zero deforestation goal  
for HP brand paper (which represented  
58% of HP fiber tonnage in 2019), as it is  
derived entirely from certified and recycled  
sources.28 In 2019, the amount of Forest  
Stewardship Council  (FSC )-certified fiber  
in HP brand paper continued to exceed 55%,  
by weight.  
Paper-based product packaging represented  
the remaining 42% of HP fiber tonnage.  
As of April 2020, all packaging from our  
first-tier packaging suppliers meets our zero  
deforestation requirement, and we continue  
to work with sub-tier packaging suppliers to  
meet this requirement by the end of 2020. 
Products and solutions 
Rated a global leader for  addressing deforestation 
For the second time, HP has been  
named to the CDP Forest  A  List  
for our programs to protect  
forests and address deforestation  
risk. Learn more.  
was the first forestry policy published by an  
IT company. We require our suppliers and  
licensees to follow this policy for the paper,  
packaging, and wood incorporated into HP  
products that they provide.  
HP s Sustainable Paper and Wood Policy30  
87  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
   Does not include packaging for commercial and  industrial graphics printing solutions, or documentation  for any products. 
tonnes HP paper impacts, 2019 
4,860,000 Paper use in  HP printers  
166,900   Paper-based packaging   use for HP products  230,600 HP printer and copier paper sold 
ZERO DEFORESTATION GOAL 
Achieve zero deforestation associated  
with HP brand paper and paper-based  
product packaging by 202029 
PROGRESS THROUGH 2019 100% 
achieved for HP brand paper in 2016 and  
maintained that performance through  
2019. Reached 80% for paper-based  
product packaging 
HP paper impacts, 2019 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
non-ertifed 
All HP brand paper, paper-based packaging,  
and wood in products must be derived  
from recycled and certified sources. We  
continue to give preference to FSC-certified  
fiber where available. Programme for the  
Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC )  
certification or relevant national certification  
schemes can also be used if they comply  
with our paper policy. We work with WWF  
Global Forest   Trade Network (GFTN)    
North America, FSC, and our suppliers to  
determine the source of virgin fiber and to  
increase the amount of certified fiber. HP  
reports progress annually to the WWF GFTN  
and CDP forests program.  
We analyze our supply chain to understand  
areas of specific risk (due to weak regulation  
26% Recycled  fiber 
HP brand paper and packaging  fiber sourcing, 2019 
8% Non-certified fiber 
1% Limited knowledge of source 
65% Certified fiber 
at end-of-life, we offer take-back services,  
and regularly update the Recycle your HP  
or ecosystem vulnerability) and create specific  
strategies as needed. To further support  
our goal related to packaging, in 2019 we  
worked with WWF to develop a conformance  
assurance program. This complements fiber  
certification and enhances due diligence  
by identifying high-level country risks,  
including deforestation, corruption, and illegal  
harvesting or trading of timber.  
Packaging innovation 
Our sustainable packaging strategy focuses  
on three areas, with the objective to enhance  
customer experience while driving progress  
toward a circular and low-carbon economy: 
During the first half of 2020, we introduced  
a goal to eliminate 75% of single-use plastic  
packaging by 2025, compared to 2018. We  
are also making progress toward our goal  
to produce 100% of paper-based product  
packaging from certified and recycled  
sources by 2020 (see Paper and forestry  
products for progress). To address packaging  
  Eliminate unnecessary packaging  
  Innovate packaging designs to use  
  Improve circulation of materials by using  
material, space, and hard-to-recycle  
materials such as plastic foam. 
materials with lower environmental  
impact, such as sustainable fiber and  
recycled plastics. 
recycled content and choosing materials  
with higher recycling rates worldwide. 
saved HP  3 million.  
Elimination 
HP is shifting away from plastic, foam, and  
other hard-to-recycle materials, which  
have been traditionally used in packaging  
for most personal systems and printing  
products. For example:  
packaging guide to help consumers avoid  
sending packaging materials to landfill.  
Key initiatives in 2019   
Below is a selection of the many packaging  
innovation projects completed and underway  
at HP to advance the circular economy. In  
2019, we completed 40 packaging innovation  
projects that reduced environmental impact,  
up from 30 the prior year. These projects  
avoided 1,780 tonnes of CO2e emissions and  
Products and solutions 
  Personal systems: In 2019, we shipped  
  Printing: By redesigning the LaserJet  
more than 6.8 million units of personal  
systems products in molded fiber  
packaging, which eliminated 934 tonnes  
of hard-to-recycle expanded plastic foam.  
M1005 MFP package, we reduced plastic  
foam by 40% and eliminated over   
Eliminate 75% of single-use plastic  
packaging by 2025, compared to 201831 
PROGRESS IN 2019 5% 
reduction, from 221 grams unit in 2018   
to 209 grams unit in 2019 
88  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Innovation 
The HP Tango Terra is our first printer with  
zero plastic packaging, using a combination  
of molded fiber cushions and glassine paper  
to replace the typical plastic foam and bag.  
The new paper pack includes 40% recycled  
content, is 100% curbside recyclable, and  
also reduces weight and CO2e emissions  
associated with materials.  
To meet enterprise customer demands  
for more sustainable packaging, we have  
begun shipping notebooks and desktop PCs  
in multi-unit bulk packs (in which several  
products share one package). This reduces  
GHG emissions associated with packaging  
materials and product transportation and  
improves shipping density and inventory  
efficiency. Bulk packaging also reduces  
customer costs related to shipping, security  
in storage, and waste disposal. In 2019, we  
shipped more than 540,000 bulk-packaged  
HP notebooks and desktops to enterprise  
customers, reducing packaging material by  
51 tonnes.   
Circulation 
During 2019, we continued the rollout  
of fiber-based packaging cushions in HP  
notebook and desktop PCs as well as  
commercial displays. Close to 7 million  
95 tonnes of the material in 2019. In  
addition, HP avoided more than 24 tonnes  
of plastic composite material in our inkjet  
printer supplies packaging.   
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
HP notebook, desktop, and display units  
were shipped in 2019 using more than  
1,960 tonnes of easily recyclable fiber- 
based packaging cushions, which typically  
contain 100% recycled content. We plan to  
accelerate this shift in 2020. 
We also continued to use recycled material  
for pallets. In 2019, we used 52,000 pallets  
made from over 2,450 tonnes of straw   
from China that would otherwise have been  
burned as agricultural waste. HP continued  
its recycled pallet program in North America,  
using more than 622,000 recycled pallets  
during 2019. 
Using 3D printing to  advance molded fiber  packaging 
Molded fiber packaging offers  
significant environmental  
advantages compared to plastic.  
However, creating and maintaining  
the three-dimensional molds  
(known as  tools ) used to produce  
this packaging can be time- and  
labor-intensive. 3D printing can  
accelerate and simplify this  
process while making it much  
easier to create custom shapes for  
irregular packaging needs.  
Planned improvements in 2020 
In 2019, HP developed packaging solutions  
that will deliver sustainability improvements  
in 2020.  Following our move to more  
fiber-based packaging, we redesigned our  
A3 printer supplies packaging and expect  
to eliminate 82 tonnes of plastic packaging  
in 2020. Using HP Clearview packaging  
for palletized products, which replaces  
cardboard paneling with a significantly  
lighter cardboard frame enclosed with  
plastic film, the HP PageWide XL large  
format printer will reduce both cardboard  
and plastic packaging use, by a total of 173  
tonnes. During 2020, we will eliminate an  
estimated 280 tonnes of documentation  
from commercial notebooks, replacing it  
with digital content that can be accessed by  
QR code with a smartphone. 
Regenerate  natural systems  
In contrast to the  take-make-waste  linear  
model, a circular economy is regenerative by  
design and aims to gradually decouple  
growth from the consumption of finite  
resources. However, to address the  
tremendous environmental challenges  
that we face, we must look beyond our  
value chain to actively strengthen the  
natural systems that support us all. This  
requires true collaboration within and  
across industries, and between businesses,  
governments, NGOs, academics, and others,  
to achieve the scale necessary. Technology  
is essential to these efforts, and to driving  
progress toward a more circular and low- 
carbon future. 
Tackling ocean plastics 
In 2016, HP launched an ambitious  
program in Haiti to help tackle the growing  
challenge of ocean-bound plastics. In  
partnership with the First Mile Coalition and  
our supplier partners, we have now built  
a fully functioning ocean-bound plastics  
supply chain. 
Through September 2019, we collected more  
than 35 million plastic bottles to be upcycled  
into HP print cartridges and hardware  
products that s more than one million  
pounds (over 450 tonnes) of ocean-bound  
plastics that might otherwise have washed  
into the Caribbean Sea.  
Through this initiative, we have opened a  
new market opportunity, providing a steady  
revenue stream for local collectors, enabling  
safer working conditions, and supporting  
local educational opportunities. 
We are proud of our progress and recognize  
that this challenge is bigger than any one  
company or organization can address.  
To further advance our progress, in 2018  
HP joined NextWave Plastics, a global  
consortium of worldwide businesses  
committed to scaling the use of ocean- 
Products and solutions 
In 2019, HP launched the world s first notebook and display with ocean-bound plastic  material. The HP Elite Dragonfly speaker enclosure is made with 50% postconsumer  recycled plastic, including 5% ocean-bound plastics.32 The HP E273d display contains  more than 80% recycled plastic, including 5% ocean-bound plastics, the equivalent of  more than three 16 ounce recycled plastic water bottles.33 HP Tango Terra, the world s  most sustainable home printing system,34 is made with more than 30% recycled  content and the Original HP 64 ink cartridges it uses are made with 48 73% recycled  content, including ocean-bound plastics.35 
89  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
STOP,  which collaborates with governments  
and communities in Southeast Asia to create  
effective waste management systems that  
eliminate plastics leakage into the ocean and  
provides solutions that can be replicated in  
other cities. As a technical partner, we are  
supporting the organization s work to create  
a circular waste management system in East  
bound plastics by developing the first  
global network of ocean-bound plastics  
supply chains.  
HP was announced in January 2020 as a  
founding member of The Ocean Plastics  
Leadership Network, a membership  
community dedicated to accelerating  
collaborative action to address the ocean  
plastic pollution challenge. 
In January 2020, HP also joined Project  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
Java, Indonesia. The Project STOP materials  
recovery centers in the province will not  
only collect, manage, and recycle plastic  
waste, but also provide income-generation  
opportunities, including for local people  
working in the informal waste sector.  
HP Sustainable Forests  Collaborative  
Today, nearly 50% of global forests are  
under threat due to deforestation and  
forest degradation. According to WWF, the  
planet is losing 18.7 million acres of forest  
each year the equivalent of 27 soccer  
fields per minute. In 2016, HP committed to  
eliminating deforestation from our paper  
and packaging supply chains. However, we  
recognize that to truly address the global  
challenges related to forest loss, we must  
look beyond our own supply chain and  
partner to protect and help regenerate these  
valuable natural systems. 
In November 2019, we launched the HP  
Sustainable Forests Collaborative initiative,  
realizing the value to business and nature  
of accelerating forest and biodiversity  
protection and setting targets informed by  
science. The Collaborative's objectives are to:  
In partnership with WWF, the first projects  
of the Sustainable Forests Collaborative  
will focus on restoring and improving the  
management of nearly 200,000 acres (over  
  Maintain HP s long-standing commitment  
  Support the development of science- 
  Protect, restore, and improve responsible  
  Collaborate across HP and with our  
  Drive the development of innovative  
to sustainable fiber sourcing through  
supply chain management. 
based targets for forests, which includes  
estimating carbon and nature co-benefits  
of forest restoration and improved forest  
management. 
management of forests.  
industry, partners, and customers, using  
collective influence to inspire action. 
printing technologies that reduce paper  
waste and improve the efficiency of paper  
consumption. 
80,000 hectares) of forests in Brazil and China,  
an area equivalent to the size of New York City,  
by the end of calendar year 2024. The area of  
forest that will be under these projects would  
produce enough paper to run through all HP  
consumer printers over four years. 
The first phase of work includes outreach  
and consultation with local communities,  
landowners, government authorities, NGOs,  
academia, and other stakeholders to support  
these forest conservation actions on the  
ground. As part of this process, over 1,200  
acres (500 hectares) of native forest lands in  
the Upper Parana and or Serra do Mar areas  
of Brazil's Atlantic Forest will be mapped for  
on-the-ground forest restoration activities  
over the next five years, with the first round  
of forest restoration planting planned for the  
end of calendar year 2020. 
In addition to these activities, HP is  
supporting the development of a Forest  
Stewardship Council  (FSC ) Consumer  
Marketplace. This will give consumers an  
easy-to-use, comprehensive way to find all  
FSC retail partners and FSC-certified brands  
as well as a means to purchase certified  
products. This project will build awareness  
about the importance of responsibly  
managed forests and generate demand for  
FSC-certified products. 
Products and solutions 
Product responsibility 
We are committed to the safety, security,  
and privacy of our customers when they use  
HP products. The company maintains high  
standards in these areas and continues to  
innovate across our portfolio. 
Product safety  
HP products are designed to operate safely.  
All HP branded electrical products undergo  
evaluations and testing to ensure that they  
meet our safety standards and the external  
standard IEC 62368-1. We work to identify  
opportunities for ongoing improvement in  
this area. We share extensive product safety  
information online to support our customers   
informed purchasing decisions. 
Regardless of where they are sold,  
all HP branded products conform to  
international electrical safety and  
electromagnetic compatibility standards.  
View Declarations of Conformity for  
90  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
European Union requirements. Contact  
HP s product compliance customer support  
at techregshelp hp.com regarding  
declarations for other countries. 
Safety Data Sheets are available for HP  
formulated products, including inks, toners,  
and 3D powders and bonding agents. The  
information includes physical, chemical and  
toxicological properties, regulatory details,  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
eco-label guidelines, and are compliant with  
Home and office  printing solutions 
Indoor air quality 
HP voluntarily designs and tests its printing  
systems1 to prevent emissions that exceed  
and recommendations for safe handling.  
Many HP products also qualify for eco-labels  
and other certifications that cover health and  
safety as well as environmental aspects. 
   Nov 2019 WKI Blue Angel Indoor Air Quality study, commissioned by HP, in compliance with DE-UZ 205: 21 imitation and five  remanufactured toner cartridge brands compatible with HP Color LaserJet Pro MFP M477fdw (sku  CF410A, 411A, 412A, 413A)  purchased in EMEA, LA and NA regions. See HP.com go IAQnonhpWKI2019. 
    Nov 2019 Intrinsik risk evaluation commissioned by HP. Based on 2019 Blue Angel indoor air quality compliance study, which  included VOCs emitted from imitation and remanufactured toner cartridges in accordance with DE-UZ 205 and health-based  screening levels established by USEPA (2019) and Cal EPA Department of Toxic Substances Control (2019a).   See HP.com go IntrinsikNonHPtoner2019. 
Emissions over Blue Angel allowed limit 
96% of non-HP toner cartridges failed indoor air quality tests  
Total volatile organic compound (TVOC) emission rates (mg h)  
Non-HP brands tested 
Blue Angel and EPEAT  indoor air quality  
(IAQ) criteria. Original HP toner cartridges are  
designed and tested with health in mind.  
HP commissioned Fraunhofer Institute WKI  
to perform a study that tested the emission  
rates of volatile organic compounds, ozone,  
dust, benzene, styrene, and ultrafine  
particles of different cartridge brands used  
in a popular HP laser printer. The study  
found that 96% of imitation toner cartridges  
and 100% of remanufactured toner  
cartridges tested failed basic Blue Angel  
IAQ tests.2 Subsequently, HP asked Intrinsik,  
an international toxicology consultancy  
specializing in consumer product and  
Non-HP toner cartridges 
  Emitted up to 191% over  the allowed limit for total  VOCs that could be harmful  to your health ,   
  May contribute to poor  indoor air quality  
  May undermine your  purchasing department's  efforts to comply with Blue  Angel criteria  
U.S. EPA Introduction to indoor air quality.   
pharmaceutical safety, to assess the  
potential health impacts associated with the  
resulting emissions data. The assessment  
found that emissions from non-HP toner  
cartridges may contribute to increased  
health risk.3 For further context, see   
Industrial printing 
Safety compliance in sensitive  applications 
As worldwide requirements for materials  
used in food packaging are not well  
harmonized, HP has used regulations and  
guidance plus requirements from leading  
food manufacturers to develop an industry- 
leading safety assessment and qualification  
process for the indirect-contact food package  
printing solutions we offer with our Indigo,  
PageWide Industrial, and Specialty Printing  
Systems technologies. In summary, we:  
Products and solutions 
  Review carefully each chemical in the  
  Perform migration testing to ensure  
  Provide a Statement of Composition  
process to determine its safety and  
its suitable purity for food packaging  
applications including not intentionally  
added substances (NIAS).  
the safe use of HP s products in this  
application.  
to customers detailing the regulatory  
compliance status of the substances,  
good manufacturing practices (GMP), and  
details of the representative use case  
evaluated. 
Recognizing that we are only one part of the  
packaging supply chain, we are committed to  
transparent communication and we support  
additional qualification testing by our  
customers both in food packaging printing  
and other sensitive applications. 
For our textile printing solutions, which  
include HP Stitch printers, HP conducts  
a hazard and regulatory assessment for  
each substance in the ink formulation to  
determine its suitability for the application.  
To ensure HP is meeting customers   
sustainability requirements, we also  
review the formulations against restricted  
substances lists from individual brands  
as well as the manufacturing restricted  
substances list developed by Zero Discharge  
of Hazardous Chemistries, an industry-wide  
consortium. We go further on third-party  
safety certification by obtaining the Eco  
Passport by Oeko-Tex, an independent  
certification for chemicals and colorants  
used in the manufacturing of textiles, which  
supports customers who wish to obtain the  
Oeko-Tex STANDARD 100 certification for  
their textile products. 
91  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
security, advises us on the ever-changing  
threat landscape, augmenting our other  
work and research through HP Labs. All three  
Product security  and privacy 
Cybersecurity is an increasing concern of  
our customers worldwide. We continually  
enhance HP products, solutions, and  
services to offer industry-leading resiliency  
capabilities that anticipate an ever-evolving  
attack and threat landscape. 
We follow security and privacy by design  
principles for all our products, from design  
through customer use, refurbishment, and  
recycling. We build protection, detection,  
and recovery into the device, not just  
the software, providing customers with  
separate, auditable mechanisms for  
managing security risks. To protect against  
the malware of the future, PCs and printers  
must have hardware-level security that  
integrates seamlessly with the customers   
broader IT network security infrastructure.  
This is the foundation of our strategy. 
HP s Security Management Review  
Committee oversees our portfolio-wide  
approach to security and provides the  
resources needed to support HP s continued  
leadership. Our Security Advisory Board,  
consisting of several HP leaders as well  
as three external members with broad  
backgrounds in offensive and defensive  
world of hacking and the latest developments  
in security technology and strategies. 
We continually conduct threat analysis on  
emerging attack vectors, which in turn helps  
guide product security development efforts.  
We employ cybersecurity specialists and  
conduct cybersecurity architecture reviews,  
penetration testing, code reviews, and  
automated code scanning using industry- 
leading tools. When issues arise, we take  
appropriate actions to remediate reported  
security vulnerabilities. 
In 2018, we adopted the industry best  
practice Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure  
members have first-hand expertise in the  
approach, which describes how we work  
with partners, industry, and the security  
community to address vulnerabilities. When  
notified about a suspected vulnerability, we  
investigate thoroughly and, if confirmed,  
work with the submitter on remediation and  
a coordinated public release of information. 
The HP supply chain security group works to  
ensure that our products can resist attacks  
throughout the supply chain life cycle, from  
component sourcing and manufacturing  
to transportation, service, and take-back.  
Our HP Product Cybersecurity Standard for  
Suppliers, enforced through periodic audits,  
contractually holds relevant suppliers to  
requirements that mitigate the risks of  
counterfeits, malware, and tampering. 
commercial PCs with HP Sure Start meet and  
exceed the National Institute of Standards  
and Technology s (NIST) Platform Firmware  
Resiliency Guidelines.   
The HP Endpoint Security Controller is our  
foundation and has been certified by a  
third-party lab. It establishes a Hardware  
Root of Trust and is physically isolated from  
the machine s CPU and operating system,  
providing resiliency to the PC. 
HP Proactive Security is the world s most  
advanced endpoint security service.5  
The managed service helps small and  
medium-sized businesses defend against  
cyberattacks without changing user behavior  
or increasing IT workload. 
HP Sure Click Enterprise, powered by  
Bromium,6 is the world s most advanced  
protecting enterprise endpoints from  
even the most sophisticated of attackers  
while providing detailed, real-time threat  
intelligence to security teams. 
Learn more about security solutions and  
Sustainable Impact in our personal systems.   
hardware-enforced endpoint application  
isolation and containment solution,7  
Personal systems 
HP produces the world s most secure and  
manageable PCs and workstations.4 Our  
Products and solutions 
HP s printers and multifunction printers offer  
the industry s strongest security features,8  
92  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
and our FutureSmart printers meet and  
exceed the NIST Platform Firmware  
Resiliency Guidelines. HP FutureSmart  
printers automatically self-heal and recover  
from attacks, following four unique and  
automated steps. Learn more.  
Through our bug bounty program, we offer  
rewards for highly trained, geographically  
diverse ethical hackers who expose flaws  
in our print technology. The program  
leverages deep, hard-to-find technical skills  
to find obscure, previously unidentified  
vulnerabilities in our devices before they are  
released to market. 
HP JetAdvantage Security Manager is the  
industry s only comprehensive policy-  
based printer security compliance tool that  
assesses and remediates HP printer fleets.  
HP Print Security Services combines  
credentialed security experts and trained  
print specialists to assess customers   
printing environments, address compliance  
requirements, develop and implement  
plans, provide ongoing management, and  
proactively identify gaps in defenses. 
Learn more about security solutions and  
Sustainable Impact in our printers. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
Social impact  
HP s commitment to creating positive,  
lasting change for people and communities  
around the world extends to how we design  
and deploy products, solutions, and services  
to meet the unique business needs of  
key verticals and industries. Our portfolio  
of education products, partnerships, and  
programs are helping to enable better  
learning outcomes for millions of people  
worldwide. HP s purpose-built healthcare  
ensure that everyone can access the benefits  
of our technology. 
Global education  programs 
Access to a quality education is a  
fundamental human right. This belief is at  
the core of our global education programs  
and solutions, which emphasize access for  
all and deliver educational opportunities to  
girls, women, and some of the world s most  
vulnerable and marginalized communities.  
Whether learning takes place in school, on  
campus, outside of the classroom, or at work,  
technology is essential to providing equitable  
portfolio is designed with clinicians in mind  
to streamline patient care, optimize clinical  
workflows, and deliver customized solutions.  
A strong focus on inclusive design helps to  
access to education and preparing people  
with critical skills needed for the future. 
HP is creating conditions for better learning  
outcomes for all people, to advance  
inclusion, foster equity and equality, and  
accelerate economic opportunity. Our  
education programs and initiatives are  
either funded by our business groups or the  
HP Foundation. 
Enable better learning outcomes  
for 100 million people by 2025,  
since the beginning of 2015 
PROGRESS THROUGH 2019 28.7 million  
students and adult learners have   
benefited from HP s education programs  
and solutions that advance quality  
learning and digital literacy, and enable  
better learning outcomes, since the  
beginning of 2015 
Campus of the Future  
HP s Campus of the Future framework creates  
vibrant, secure environments for teaching,  
learning, research, and collaboration. As part  
of this initiative, HP is working with more than  
20 elite colleges and universities, providing  
cutting-edge technologies alongside financial  
and technical support. These collaborations  
are exploring the types and uses of 3D  
printing (additive manufacturing), virtual  
reality (VR), and augmented reality (AR) to  
identify the technologies with the greatest  
potential for teaching, learning, and research.  
For example: 
Products and solutions 
  At the University of Nebraska Lincoln,  
  Columbia University s Emerging  
the Johnny Carson Center for Emerging  
Media Arts is unleashing technologies  
such as 3D Design, VR, and AR to inspire  
student imagination. Using equipment  
provided by HP, media arts, medical,  
and computer science and engineering  
faculty are collaborating to develop  
custom VR software designed to assist  
people with autism spectrum disorder  
and cerebral palsy. 
Technology Consortium is sharing  
information and disseminating advanced  
technological tools provided by HP across  
the campus, such as VR, AR, and machine  
learning. These tools are being used to  
foster collaboration and to help faculty  
and researchers develop next-generation  
applications, improve research outcomes,  
strengthen expertise, and transform  
teaching and learning. 
We partnered with MIT SOLVE during 2019 on its Circular Economy Challenge by  co-hosting a Solveathon design-thinking workshop at our Palo Alto, California,  headquarters. This brought together creative, like-minded thinkers in the Bay Area  community to ideate on solutions that could help shift supply chains from linear  to circular in order to reduce waste and improve lives. The workshop explored  approaches to creating products that use renewable materials and are reusable,  repairable, and recyclable. Key themes included the elimination of ocean-bound  plastics through closed-loop processes, the transformative potential of 3D printing,  and shorter, simpler supply chains. Overall, MIT SOLVE generated more than 300  solutions to the Circular Economy Challenge. 
Classroom of the  Future 
HP has continued to focus on inclusive  
access to technologies, tools, and  
materials that advance quality education  
and promote opportunities for people  
everywhere. In 2019, HP Learning Studios  
brought state-of-the art educational  
technology into more than 100 schools  
across North America, Europe, the Middle  
East, Australia, and New Zealand. See page  
94 for detail on HP Learning Studios for  
refugees and displaced populations. 
We offer tools and technologies that boost  
teachers  vital contributions. Every Windows  
10-based HP Education Edition PC ships pre- 
loaded with HP Classroom Manager. Through  
one console, teachers can cultivate a  
collaborative learning environment, monitor  
student activities, and evaluate progress in  
93  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
real time. With co-molded industrial rubber,  
pick-proof keys, and other rugged features,  
these PCs are built to last in the classroom  
and tested in a laboratory environment that  
simulates a school setting.  
HP shipped 6.3 million PCs to schools  in 2019. 
Education as a  foundation for an  inclusive Fourth  Industrial Revolution 
The Fourth Industrial Revolution is  
a profound, technology-enabled  
transformation that is set to reinvent how  
goods are designed, created, and delivered.  
While still in its early stages, studies indicate  
it could lead to the creation of millions of  
new jobs,1 including in positions that may not  
yet exist today.  
This presents an urgent need to educate  
current and future generations so that they  
can make a successful transition, and so  
that we can help to ensure a diverse and  
inclusive Fourth Industrial Revolution. This  
includes programs to serve those displaced  
by automation, educational systems to  
retrain those with transferrable skills, and  
preparation for the next generation. 
At HP, we are implementing best practices  
in workforce training to develop the next  
generation of diverse talent, working with  
partners to develop 3D printing engineering  
curriculum, and fostering collaboration with  
governments to address skills of the future.  
For example:  
  The HP-NTU Digital Manufacturing  
  We are working on curriculum modules for  
with the National Research Foundation  
Singapore, supports the university s  
efforts to democratize digital  
manufacturing on a global scale. It is the  
first public-private partnership of its kind  
higher education, offer design for additive  
manufacturing training and workshops  
for professionals, and published the HP  
Multi Jet Fusion Engineering Handbook to  
help designers create parts for production  
using HP 3D printing technologies. 
Corporate Lab in Singapore, founded  
Building future skills at  the local level 
Little Makers Challenge, Malaysia  
In line with the Malaysian Ministry of  
Education s focus on introducing technology  
and play-based learning while decreasing  
reliance on textbooks, we launched the Little  
Makers Challenge for parents, teachers, and  
5 to 12-year-old children to play and learn  
together. Centered on the use of printers  
and digital print media to inspire creative  
learning, the campaign invited children to  
submit their projects in arts, geography,  
biology, astronomy, and other topics. Over  
18,600 entries were submitted, representing  
an estimated 90,000 hours of play and  
learning activity. The winning school, SK  
Saujana Utama in Sungai Buloh, Malaysia,  
generated the highest number of entries for  
all eight challenges and won PC and print  
equipment from HP. 
New Asian Learning Experience,  Indonesia and Singapore 
Following HP s National Education Readiness  
survey conducted in Bogor, Indonesia,  
we launched the HP New Asian Learning  
Experience, which revealed how young  
children learn through experiences and  
technology. We hosted a Family Day for  
30 families to show how children can  
learn better through both print and digital  
mediums and brought the message to  
schools in four Indonesian cities.  
Products and solutions 
In Singapore, building on insights from  
the survey conducted in Indonesia, we  
delivered an interactive learning experience  
to 200 parents and their young children.  
At Fort Canning Park, the families took an  
immersive journey through history, enabled  
by print innovation from HP.  
Modular Tech Hubs, Southeast  Asia 
To help meet the demand for technology in  
educational settings, we are providing HP  
Modular Tech Hubs to schools in Southeast  
Asia, enabling students to use HP PCs to  
learn coding and Microsoft Office skills. The  
program also includes training to support  
teachers to improve learning outcomes  
through technology. We plan to launch 20  
hubs by the end of 2020, with the aim of  
reaching a total of 10,000 students. As of  
December 2019, we launched six hubs and  
reached more than 3,500 students. 
Digital Schools Awards, Europe 
Digital Schools Awards (DSA) is an HP- 
led initiative to cultivate, encourage, and  
recognize use of technology in schools to  
support improvements in teaching, learning,  
and assessment. At the end of 2019, 49%  
(3,630) of primary and secondary schools in  
Ireland, Northern Ireland, and Scotland were  
registered in the program, up from 42% in  
2018. Approximately 885,000 students have  
benefited from the program since it started in  
2014, including an additional 175,000 in 2019. 
94  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
In Scotland, we also introduced DSA to 44  
early years (ages 2 5) and special education  
schools in 2019, and launched the cyber- 
resilience and Internet safety badge in  
Northern Ireland and Scotland. During  
the year, we received the backing of the  
European Commission to extend DSA to  
additional countries, and plan to launch the  
program in Lithuania, Serbia, and Slovenia  
HP National Education  Technology Assessment  (NETA) 
The HP NETA program which uses a  
combination of macroeconomic analysis,  
hyper-local insights, and predictive  
analytics supports policymakers and  
governments to create education technology  
programs that teach skills employers need.  
In Idaho, United States, in partnership with  
Idaho Business for Education, we carried out  
an extensive, statewide study on education  
and the economy. With contributions  
from more than 1,800 Idaho businesses,  
teachers, school leaders, and government  
representatives, the study showed that  
education system performance and vibrant  
growth are intrinsically linked. The final  
report highlighted recommendations for  
Idaho s government and education leaders,  
as well as guidance for the private sector,  
focusing on long-term education and  
economic competitiveness. 
HP School Cloud 
HP School Cloud is a hybrid cloud appliance  
enabling students and teachers in rural,  
poor, and marginalized communities to  
access free, high-quality open source  
educational resources even without an  
Internet connection. Featuring the HP Open  
Learning Platform and in partnership with  
OpenStax, HP School Cloud provides access  
to millions of e-textbooks and thousands of  
lessons on reading, science, mathematics,  
and more. Resources align with international  
curricular and instructional standards from  
UNESCO, OECD, and others. See below for  
Refugees living in the Azraq Camp in Jordan designed the structure and interior of their own HP Learning Studio, including its  accessibility features. As part of this process, the two Learning Studios that were originally planned were combined into a single,  larger facility. Using this experience, the refugees went on to explore ideas for making other accessible structures in the camp  and also took HP LIFE courses to further their business skills. Photo credit: Schaumberger InZone 
details on HP School Cloud for refugees and  
displaced populations. 
Refugees and  displaced populations 
We work with the United Nations High  
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and  
other partners to enable refugees and  
displaced populations to learn in-demand  
skills to enhance employment opportunities.  
Examples include: 
Products and solutions 
  Uganda: HP School Cloud was piloted  
with partners including Education Cannot  
Gender equality 
More than 130 million girls around the  
world lack access to education, and women  
account for two-thirds of the 750 million  
adults without basic literacy skills. To  
improve gender equality in education, on  
International Day of the Girl in October  
2019, we announced with nonprofit Girl  
Rising the launch of new curriculum and  
technology solutions that will equip up to  
95  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
  Jordan Lebanon: We launched three HP  
  Lebanon: HP is partnering with the  
This follows the two HP Learning Studios  
launched in Jordan, in the Azraq Refugee  
Camp and Amman.  
For example, in the Fern El Chebbak  
middle school, the principal instigated a  
mandatory IT period to tackle basic digital  
literacy. After gaining confidence, students  
moved on to the next level of skills,  
including text editing and Internet search.  
Learning Studios in Lebanon in early 2020.  
Clooney Foundation for Justice, UNICEF,  
Wait (a global fund of UNICEF), UNHCR,  
and Learning Equality. The technology  
is currently being used in 12 secondary  
schools across Uganda (both rural and  
urban) with high concentrations of  
refugees reaching over 6,000 refugee  
students as well as their Ugandan peers  
and teachers during 2019. Watch video.  
and Google.org to improve educational  
opportunities for thousands of Syrian  
refugees and Lebanese students.  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
10 million students and teachers. The multi- 
year partnership extends to communities in  
the United States, India, and Nigeria. HP will  
include Girl Rising s teacher training modules  
focused on youth empowerment and life  
skills in HP Education Edition PCs. Targeted  
toward primary and secondary schools,  
we will also deploy a suite of curricula and  
a library of content to accompany the HP  
School Pack, a suite of software pre-loaded  
onto HP s EHP Education Edition PC. 
HP is also collaborating with UN Women to  
advance education, entrepreneurship, and  
digital learning for women and girls in five  
2019. See Community giving and  
volunteerism. 
has enrolled nearly 800,000 new  
HP LIFE users from 2012 through  
hosted on the Learning Equality  
platform, Kolibri. The program  
courses in seven languages,  
available both online and offline,  
Entrepreneurs) is a free e-learning  
program from the HP Foundation  
that is advancing education,  
promoting entrepreneurship,  
and supporting development of  
the next generation of female  
leaders. HP LIFE offers 32 free  
HP LIFE (Learning Initiative for  
complements other HP initiatives including  
and volunteerism. 
Discover more about HP technologies to  advance learning. 
priority countries: Senegal, South Africa,  
Nigeria, Democratic Republic of Congo, and  
Through Hour of Code and CodeWars,  
volunteers from HP teach coding in schools  
and community organizations around the  
world in order to reach underserved student  
communities, particularly ethnic minorities  
and young women. See Community giving  
HP World on Wheels  mobile learning labs 
HP is bringing self-contained, Internet- 
enabled, solar-powered mobile learning  
labs to rural areas of India. The HP World  
on Wheels (WOW) program supports digital  
literacy, education, entrepreneurship, and  
citizen services, aiming to provide access to  
more than 15 million people across 6,400  
Indian villages by 2022. Each 20-seat WOW  
vehicle is equipped with HP computing and  
printing technology, as well as software and  
e-learning tools. Since the rollout of 43 WOW  
mobile learning labs in rural India during  
2017, we have provided access to WOW  
resources to an estimated 3.5 million people  
across more than 1,400 villages.2 HP WOW  
HP LIFE, HP Future Classroom 2.0, and HP  
Common Service Lab and demonstrates  
how we apply our technology to overcome  
power, space, infrastructure, and equipment  
challenges in rural communities.  
Healthcare 
From our healthcare portfolio of PC and  
printing solutions to personalized 3D-printed  
prosthetics, HP innovations focus on  
meeting specific challenges in the sector.  
Our solutions are designed to help clinicians  
improve patient outcomes, boost efficiency,  
and increase access for underserved  
populations.  
HP Healthcare Edition  Portfolio 
New innovations in our healthcare portfolio  
are designed to address the most pressing  
issues facing the healthcare industry  
today, including patient safety, care  
coordination, clinical efficiency, and security.  
Developments announced in 2019 included: 
Products and solutions 
  Certified printers that reduce  
  Secure patient wristbands to increase the  
  Sanitizable keyboards and touch-enabled  
electromagnetic interference to sensitive  
patients and equipment.4 
accuracy of patient identification. 
control panels through nitrile, latex, and  
surgical gloves to help prevent the  
spread of infection.3 
patient privacy and security. 
Learn more about HP solutions for healthcare  
3D printing is also heralding a new era in  
prosthetics, with devices that are highly  
personalized and functional, better-fitting,  
and more comfortable. Four out of five  
of the estimated global population of  
30 million amputees who need prosthetics  
live in developing economies many with  
In addition, HP provides the world s most  
secure PCs6 and printing solutions7 to protect  
3D printed anatomical  models and prosthetics 
The promise of personalized medicine is  
catalyzing rapid adoption of 3D printing  
across the industry as it enables uniquely  
customized medical models. At Rady s  
Children Hospital in Southern California,  
HP Multi Jet Fusion technology is helping  
medical teams to improve pre-operative  
planning and outcomes. Color anatomical  
models produced on the HP Jet Fusion 580  
Color 3D printer allow surgeons to explore  
new parts of patient anatomy, helping  
physicians to decrease surgical times and  
reduce the amount of fluoroscopy radiation  
the patient receives. Watch video. 
96  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
and our Healthcare Edition Portfolio. 
  Solutions built through collaborations  
with Cerner and Biscom to reduce care  
provider burnout and improve care  
coordination.5 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
a new prosthetic leg can cost anywhere  
between  5,000 to  50,000, and high-end  
options can cost up to  100,000. In a sector  
where production volumes are low, HP Multi  
Jet Fusion technology can unlock the full  
potential of 3D printing by reducing both cost  
and lead times.  
Companies such as Unlimited Tomorrow in  
no access to devices.8 Traditionally made,  
the United States recognize the potential to  
take 3D printed prosthetics to a large-scale,  
industrial level. The organization s mission  
is to deliver prosthetics globally to enhance  
the quality of lives of amputees, and it  
helps make advanced artificial prosthetics  
accessible to underserved populations.  
The company uses a pair of HP Jet Fusion  
580 color 3D printers to produce precisely  
shaped, custom artificial prosthetic devices  
at an affordable price. Unlimited Tomorrow  
is aiming to go to market in 2020, selling  
its devices at a price between  5,000 and  
 10,000 per unit roughly one-tenth of the  
cost of similarly advanced prosthetic arms.  
The devices are remotely fitted, enabled by  
artificial intelligence, and have a multi-day  
battery life. The limbs can be printed to  
match any skin tone and in the exact shape  
and size to match recipients  bodies. And  
with 3D printing, each arm weighs only about  
one and a half pounds (0.7 kg) whereas  
traditional prosthetic arms can weigh eight  
pounds (3.5 kg) or more.  
See more case studies. 
standards such as Web Content Accessibility  
Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 (levels A and AA), U.S.  
Revised Section 508, and the E.U. EN 301 549.  
Inclusive design 
Inclusive technology affirms human dignity,  
promotes independence, and unleashes  
creativity. Every person s access needs  
are diverse and individual, and can be  
situational, acquired, temporary, or lifelong.  
Customer requirements for accessible  
products continue to increase, especially  
to support the rapidly aging population  
globally. We are committed to ensuring that  
the benefits of our innovative technology  
empower people worldwide.   
We track design and evaluation guidance  
for requirements in worldwide accessibility  
that is cheaper and more accurate than  
existing methods. Learn more. 
level, which we are applying to the  
detection of cancers. A team in our Print  
Adjacencies and Microfluidics Lab is working  
properties. This approach has the potential  
to result in a new tool for liquid biopsies  
Microfluidics and  cancer detection 
HP has decades of experience in  
manipulating fluids at the microscopic  
to develop a new method for isolating  
rare cancer cells. This research deploys a  
combination of hydrodynamic and electric  
fields to separate cells based on electrical  
This supports our efforts to consider inclusive  
design early in product development, in  
addition to incorporating feedback from the  
global disability community.  
HP enhances the customer experience and  
inspires people with elegant, easy-to-use  
products. For example, we incorporate easy- 
to-use voice technology in our web-enabled  
consumer printers such as HP Tango, and  
offer the HP Accessibility Assistant our  
secure voice and screen reader accessory  
in a wide range of office printers. We design  
our PCs to be compatible with popular  
assistive technology, including the HP All-in- 
One product line, which is a favorite among  
seniors and individuals needing an easy-to- 
HP contributes to accessibility conversations  
and initiatives by regularly sponsoring,  
attending, and speaking at conferences and  
government forums. We are a recognized  
voice in a range of industry and government  
efforts to advance worldwide standards and  
policies that improve the accessibility of  
information and technology for everyone. 
Visit the HP Office of Aging and Accessibility  
for more information.  
Products and solutions 
Products and solutions portfolio 
HP aims to deliver technology that improves  
lives and enables our customers and  
consumers to achieve more, safely and  
with less environmental impact. Through  
our portfolio of products and services, we  
create shared value for planet, people, and  
the communities where we live, work, and  
do business. 
97  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
  As the global leader in home and office  
  From laptops and workstations to gaming  
systems products and services to provide  
customers the security, durability, and  
energy and materials efficiency they  
expect and depend on. 
printing solutions, we continue to redefine  
and VR devices, we design our personal  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
  Our industrial printing solutions are  
  HP 3D printing technology is driving  
the marketplace, delivering sustainable  
next-generation solutions and service- 
based models to meet the needs of our  
customers globally. 
driving the analog-to-digital revolution,  
transforming our customers  supply  
chains, and better matching supply  
with demand across the 2D printing and  
publishing industries, as well as other  
commercial and industrial sectors such as  
packaging and labeling. 
transformation across sectors, changing  
how whole industries design, make, and  
distribute products for a more sustainable  
Fourth Industrial Revolution 
As of October 31, 2019, HP s worldwide patent portfolio included over 27,000 patents. 
See Personal systems, Home and office printing solutions, Industrial printing, and  
3D printing for examples of innovation in each of our product groups. 
Investing in R D 
HP is reinventing the future through transformative technologies that will disrupt  
industries and economies around the world. 
In 2019, HP spent  1.5 billion on ongoing product development and creating the  
transformative and disruptive technologies of the future. We invest in areas where  
we can make the greatest impact, and we integrate sustainability into our research  
agenda. Read more at hpmegatrends.com.  
The majority of our R D spending is focused on inventions and development for  
products that will be released in the next one to two years. The rest is dedicated to  
HP Labs and the business units for new business creation (including 3D printing and  
microfluidics) and for developing technologies that will mature over the following  
three to seven years. 
At HP Labs, we focus on new technologies that will either result in new business  
creation, fundamental breakthroughs in science, or new product categories. Key  
areas of research include: 
  Security 
  3D printing 
  Digital manufacturing 
  Artificial intelligence and emerging compute 
  Print adjacencies and microfluidics 
Products and solutions 
98  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Driven by customer insights, HP Personal Systems is aiming to  create the world s most exciting and sustainable portfolio, built  on intelligent services and innovative solutions. Central to these  efforts, we are accelerating our shift away from virgin materials  and increasing use of recycled content. At the same time, we  design our notebooks, desktops, and workstations for quality  and durability, to keep valuable materials in use for a long time.  Leveraging the power of IT, our products support education  solutions and programs to strengthen the workforce and  empower communities worldwide.  
Personal  systems 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
HIGHLIGHTS 
in materials use intensity   since 2016 9,650 TONNES 
of plastic in our personal  systems products (15.5% of the  total) was postconsumer  recycled content 1 
of plastic, on average, in our  business PCs and displays was  postconsumer recycled content 934 TONNES 
of hard-to-recycle expanded  plastic foam eliminated by  shipping more than 6.8 million  units of personal systems  products in molded fiber  packaging 
ASSURED SECURITY   HP  produces the world s most  secure and manageable PCs  and workstations2  
ENERGY STAR  certified  products more than any other  manufacturer 50% 
MORE EPEAT  GOLD  AND SILVER PRODUCTS   in more countries than any  other PC vendor 3 and 1st  manufacturer to bring EPEAT  2019 Gold and Silver products  to market   
of packaging material avoided  through innovative bulk  packaging solutions 91% 
reduction in portfolio energy  consumption since 2010: 
  54% for desktops 
  38% for notebooks 
  38% for workstations 
HP LEARNING STUDIOS  brought state-of-the art  educational technology into  more than 100 schools across  North America, Europe, the  Middle East, Australia, and New  Zealand in 2019 
SUSTAINABLE IMPACT PRODUCT INNOVATIONS 
HP Elite Dragonfly 
   Recognized in CES Innovation Awards 2020.  For the HP EliteDisplay E273d, we were  recognized in the Sustainability, Eco-Design    Smart Energy category. 
99  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
HP EliteBook 840 G6 
  ENERGY STAR  certified. 
  EPEAT  2019 Gold.4 
  TCO certified. 
  iFixit Score 10 out of 10 for repairability. 
  Designed to pass military standard   MIL-STD-810G testing for durability.  
  37% decrease in energy consumption compared to  the EliteBook 840 G1 Notebook PC. 
HP EliteDisplay E273d     World s first display with   ocean-bound plastics  
  More than 80% recycled plastic.6 
  Includes 5% ocean-bound plastics, the   equivalent of more than three 16 ounce   recycled plastic water bottles.7 
  100% fiber recyclable packaging   (with no foam cushions). 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
HP EliteBook 840 G6 HP EliteDisplay E273d HP Elite x2 G4 
  EPEAT 2019 Gold.10 
  TCO Certified. 
  iFixit Score 9 out of 10 for repairability.  
  Designed to pass military standard   MIL-STD-810G testing for durability. 
  5% smaller footprint than previous generation. 
  Over 80% of all mechanical parts in the HP Elite  Dragonfly are made from recycled material.9  
HP Elite x2 G4  
  ENERGY STAR certified. 
  EPEAT 2019 Gold.5  
HP Elite Dragonfly   World s first notebook with  ocean-bound plastics  
  Speaker box made with 50% postconsumer  recycled plastic, including 5% ocean-bound  plastics.8  
  The world s lightest compact business  convertible,11 weighing less than 1 kg.12 
HP workstations    Making new PCs out   of old ones 
  The HP Z4 G4, Z6 G4, and Z8 G4 workstations  are the first products in our portfolio to use IT  equipment closed-loop plastic. 
  These are also the first products to claim the   ITE-derived closed-loop plastic optional point on  the new EPEAT 2019 registry. 
HP Device as a Service  (DaaS)   
  Our DaaS offering for commercial PCs delivers  hardware, analytics, management, and life cycle  services to help customers optimize assets and  IT resources.  
  Life cycle assessment has shown that compared  with transactional sales, DaaS reduces GHG  emissions by 25%, improves resource efficiency  by 28%, decreases ecosystems impacts by 28%,  and reduces human health impacts by 29% for a  notebook PC. Learn more. 
100  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Our vision for sustainable printing builds on long-term goals and  progress in responsible sourcing of forest products, climate  action, circular economy innovation, and health and safety.  Through partnerships and investments, we are driving progress  toward a forest positive future for print and moving beyond zero  deforestation to focus on protecting, restoring, and improving  the management of forests around the world. To reduce our  environmental impact and that of our customers, we are  advancing carbon neutral printing through design innovation and  service-based solutions, while increasing use of postconsumer  recycled content plastic in hardware and supplies. At the same  time, we are working toward 100% paper packaging and reducing  single-use plastic by 75%. While striving towards these goals, we  also work to ensure that all of our printing solutions can be used  safely by our customers. 
Home and   office printing  solutions 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
HIGHLIGHTS 
Partnering to restore,   protect, and conserve  200,000  
ACRES of forests in China and  Brazil through the HP Sustainable  Forests Collaborative  15,700 TONNES 
of HP ink and toner cartridges  recycled in 2019 
HP CONSUMER PRINT   IS ON TRACK  to be forest positive by 202513 
1ST HP PRODUCT  CERTIFIED AS  CarbonNeutral:  HP Tango Terra, the world s   most sustainable home   printing system14 
BY 2025  HP Instant Ink and HP Managed  Print Services to be carbon  neutral15 
HP S PRINTING SYSTEMS16  are designed and tested to  ensure emissions do not   exceed eco-label standards   and guidelines. 96% of non-HP  toner cartridges and 100% of  remanufactured toner cartridges  tested failed basic Blue Angel  indoor air quality tests17   Learn more  
INDUSTRY'S STRONGEST  SECURITY FEATURES  
in HP s printers and multifunction  printers18  
Reduction of plastic foam in our  LaserJet M1005 MFP package 
220  TONNES 
of ocean-bound plastics used in  HP ink cartridges through 2019 
SUSTAINABLE IMPACT PRODUCT INNOVATIONS 
101  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
  Due to quality, performance, and reliability,  these business printers are widely used in our  Managed Print Services offering. 
Service-based solutions 
  HP Managed Print Services (MPS) reduces GHG  emissions by 12%, improves resource efficiency  by 13%, and decreases ecosystems impacts by  12% for a multifunction color laser printer.   Learn more. 
HP Color LaserJet   Managed E75245dn   A printing system backed  by sustainable design   
  ENERGY STAR  3.0 certified. 
  EPEAT  Registered Silver.22 
  JetIntelligence toner technology: high-quality  pages  high-yield options and page maximizer   intelligent tracking of toner levels. 
  Original HP EcoSmart lower-melt black toner:  helps enable an average 21% energy savings23  and lower carbon footprint. 
  HP Instant Ink on average decreases the carbon  footprint of ink purchase and distribution by  73%, while reducing energy use by 69% and  lowering water use by 70%, compared to  traditional cartridge purchases. Learn more.  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
  Accompanied by a subscription to HP Instant  Ink, using HP Original Ink cartridges that contain  48 73% recycled plastic, including ocean-bound  plastics.  
HP Tango Terra  The world s most   sustainable home printing  system 19 
  Made with more than 30% recycled content by  weight of plastic. 
  First HP product certified CarbonNeutral.20 
  Delivered with Forest Stewardship Council - certified paper and plastic-free packaging.21  
HP Neverstop    World s first cartridge-free   laser printer  24  
  Made with more than 25% recycled content by  weight of plastic. The toner reload kit is made with  75% recycled plastic (based on empty weight). 
  ENERGY STAR certified. 
  HP voluntarily designs and tests its printing  systems25 to prevent emissions that exceed Blue  Angel eco-label guidelines. HP Neverstop laser  with Original HP Toner Reload Kit is designed and  tested with your health in mind.26 
  Up to a 16% CO2 reduction in environmental  footprint over its life27 versus standard laser  printers, due to its continuous toner supply system  (CTSS)28 and recycled content.29 
HP Neverstop 
HP Color LaserJet Managed E75245dn 
102  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Industrial   printing 
HP offers a wide range of industrial printing systems for the  commercial printing, packaging, textile, and large format  markets. We continue to invest and innovate to extend our print  solutions to even more applications. HP announced in October  2019 that it has committed  200 million over five or more years  to further develop water-based solutions for printing digitally  on corrugated packaging and textiles. And in 2020 HP Indigo  will introduce a new platform, LEP X, that will maximize  productivity while minimizing printing wastes.  
Learn about the sustainability advantages of digital compared  to analog printing.    
As part of HP s program to accelerate more sustainable  solutions for our customers and the entire industry, we  have a robust safety assessment process for new product  development in combination with ongoing technical and  regulatory support to qualify customer solutions. Moving  forward, we will continue to enable and advance a truly  circular economy for industrial printing. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
  ENERGY STAR  certified. 
  Operates silently in office environments  with maximum noise levels of only   42 decibels. 
  Winner of a world-renowned   
PRODUCT SPOTLIGHT 
DesignJet XL 3600 printer  
  Designed to deliver immediate  results through the fastest page out  in the market while also reducing  environmental impact and running costs.  
  First EPEAT  Gold30 certification for HP  large format printers.  
iF Design Award 2020. 
Consumes up to  10 TIMES  
less energy than comparable  toner light-emitting diode   (LED) printers 
postconsumer recycled plastic  content 
SUSTAINABLE IMPACT PRODUCT INNOVATIONS 
103  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Large format  printing 
DESIGN AND RENDERING   PHOTO AND FINE ART    SIGN AND DISPLAY DECORATION   SOFT SIGNAGE    TEXTILE 
  The most recent generation of HP s Latex inks  are now able to print on rigid substrates, further  extending the application of these versatile water- based inks. They have UL Ecologo certification  for environmentally preferable inks as well as  Greenguard Gold certification, which stipulates that  printed materials and other everyday products must  meet rigorous standards for chemical emissions.  This market, traditionally dominated by UV ink,  now has a better alternative not reliant on reactive  chemistries.   
  In 2019, we announced the HP Stitch textile printer  series, our water-based digital textiles solution. The  HP Stitch S400 and S500 achieved EPEAT  Silver31  and ENERGY STAR  certifications. The water-based  inks meet the Oeko-Tex EcoPassport criteria and the  printed material meets Greenguard Gold for indoor  air quality. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
  HP s digital printing solutions avoid many of the  safety issues that can be associated with older  analog printing technologies, by reducing the  potential for chemical exposures and other physical  hazards. Learn more. 
  HP promotes the use of sustainable media by  including them in our qualification processes and  highlighting them in our Media Solutions Locator. 
Commercial   printing 
PUBLISHING   MARKETING COLLATERAL     PHOTO DIRECT MAIL AND INFO PRINTS 
  HP provides solutions for high-volume commercial  printing with both its Indigo and PageWide Industrial  (PWI) presses.  
Labels and  packaging 
LABELS   FOLDING CARTON   FLEXIBLE   PACKAGING   CORRUGATED PACKAGING 
  HP Indigo presses provide food safe package printing  solutions for labels,  flexible packaging, and folding  cartons. 
  HP PageWide Industrial presses provide food  safe packaging printing solutions for corrugated  packaging. In addition, the inks and primers used are  UL Ecologo certified. 
  HP packaging solutions have been certified to ensure  that the inks used will not interfere with the recycling  of packaging materials. In addition, the Indigo inks  have been certified for use on compostable labels  and flexible packaging.32, 33 
104  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
3D printing 
During the next 10 to 15 years, socioeconomic forces, design  and production innovation, and highly automated printing  processes will intersect to transform manufacturing. 3D printing  is a vital engine of this Fourth Industrial Revolution and a key  enabler in the shift toward a more circular, sustainable, and  inclusive economy. HP Jet Fusion 3D printing solutions, based  on disruptive HP Multi Jet Fusion technology, will help to  reinvent design. Parts can be made to optimize materials use  while delivering fine detail combined with strength. 3D printing  brings production closer to the point of consumption, which  simplifies supply chains and drives reductions in carbon  emissions and waste. To learn more, read our document  Transforming Design and Manufacturing. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
  Materials optimized to avoid wasted  resources 
3D PRINTING, COMPARED TO TRADITIONAL MANUFACTURING,  can drive lower GHG emissions and waste throughout the product life cycle.  
HIGHLIGHTS 
surplus 3D printing powder  reusability34 of HP PA 12 nylon  material for HP Jet Fusion   3D Printing 
less GHG emissions from the 3D  printing of parts using nylon  material than traditional  manufacturing using metal   (see detail)  
LOWER CARBON  FOOTPRINTS compared to injection molding35  
  Innovative designs including  complex lightweight components  
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT  
  Customization and innovation 
  Faster iteration and less tooling 
DISTRIBUTION 
  Reduced product transportation   and associated impacts 
MANUFACTURING 
  Simplified supply chains and   more local production 
  Short, fast, cost-efficient runs 
  Better matching of supply and  demand and reduced waste 
  Decreased inventory cost 
  Unlimited availability of   spare parts 
  93% weight reduction38 
INCORPORATING   3D PRINTED PARTS into our own products has in test  cases lowered our impacts by up to: 
  95% carbon footprint reduction37  
HELPING DESIGNERS create 3D printed parts, by  publishing the HP Multi Jet Fusion  Handbook, as part of our education  efforts to widen skills needed for  the Fourth Industrial Revolution 
HIGH OUTPUT per energy consumed using   HP Multi Jet Fusion technology36 
SUSTAINABLE IMPACT PRODUCT INNOVATIONS 
105  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Learn more. 
Transforming orthodontics   and recapturing used   3D printing materials 
In partnership with leading teledentistry and aligner  therapy company SmileDirectClub, HP is recycling  excess 3D printing material and already-processed  plastic mouth molds, to convert into pellets for  traditional injection molding.  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
Simplifying and   accelerating the production   of anatomical models 
At Rady Children s Hospital in Southern California, HP  Multi Jet Fusion technology is used as a comprehensive  tool for surgical and procedural planning, education,  and research to improve patient outcomes. 
Watch video. 
Producing a more   comfortable orthopedic   helmet    
OT4 Orthop dietechnik GmbH uses HP Multi   Jet Fusion technology to produce customized safety  helmets for use after surgeries in which cranial bones  (or parts of cranial bones) have been removed and the  brain has lost some of its protective barrier.  
Watch video. 
See more case studies. 
Product and solutions  
106  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Product use GHG emissions intensity    [% reduction since 2015] Not applicable 2% 11% 11% 18% 
GHG emissions from product use   [tonnes CO2e] 19,100,000 19,300,000 22,100,000    23,400,000    22,200,000    
Water consumption related to product  use [cubic meters] 153,700,000 156,300,000   180,600,000   195,000,000   186,800,000   
3D printing solutions (energy) Not applicable Not applicable 1,600,000 1,600,000 1,900,000 
Desktop and enterprise printers  (energy)    30,500,000 31,100,000 20,000,000 18,000,000 16,000,000 
Commercial and industrial graphics  printing solutions (energy) Not available 250,000 350,000 270,000 210,000 
3D printing solutions (energy) Not applicable Not applicable 180,000 180,000 210,000 
Printing consumables for commercial  and industrial graphics printing  solutions (paper) 
Printing consumables for commercial  and industrial graphics printing  solutions (paper and other supplies) 
Printing consumables for 3D printing  solutions (resins) Not applicable Not applicable 170,000 170,000 170,000 
Commercial and industrial graphics  printing solutions (energy) Not available 2,200,000 3,000,000 2,400,000 1,900,000 
Printing consumables for desktop and  enterprise printers (paper)     46,800,000 45,800,000 73,000,000 75,000,000 77,000,000 
Personal systems 9,100,000 8,200,000 8,300,000 9,400,000 8,900,000 
Personal systems 76,400,000 70,000,000 71,000,000 84,000,000 80,000,000 
Printing consumables for desktop   and enterprise printers (paper and  ink toner cartridges)  
Desktop and enterprise printers  (energy)     3,600,000 3,600,000 2,400,000 2,000,000 1,800,000 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
Not available 7,200,000 12,000,000 14,000,000 10,000,000 
Not available 790,000 1,300,000 1,500,000 1,100,000 
6,400,000 6,500,000 9,400,000 9,900,000 10,000,000 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
Postconsumer recycled content plastic used in HP products [tonnes] 
Estimated materials use intensity for HP high-volume personal systems and printers   [tonnes   millions of net revenue] 
Personal systems Not available Not available 8,080 8,360 9,650 
Home and office  printers Not available Not available 1,260 4,790  6,760  
Large format printers Not available Not available Not available Not available 200 
Total 18,160 21,250 25,560 
HP toner cartridges 2,437 3,493 2,921 2,746  3,565  
HP ink cartridges 6,282 5,517 5,901 5,354 5,384 
Personal systems 
Home and office printers 
Wires cables 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 
LCDs 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   
PCAs 1.7 2.0 2.3 2.7 2.5 
Metal 3.3 2.7 2.3 2.5 2.7 
Total 7.0 7.0 5.8 6.0 6.5 
Metal 15.4 17.6 17.0 19.4 19.2 
Plastic 30.9 33.8 31.6 36.8 38.9 
Batteries 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   
Total 48.4 53.9 51.3 59.2 61.0 
Plastic 1.4 1.5 1.3 1.3 1.5 
Wires cables 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.5 
PCAs 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 
LCDs 1.1 1.6 1.2 1.2 1.4 
Batteries 0.1 0.1 0.0   0.0   0.0   
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
Products and solutions 
    HP product use GHG emissions intensity measures per unit GHG emissions during anticipated product lifetime use. These  values are then weighted by contribution of personal systems and printing products to overall revenue in the current year.  These emissions represent more than 99% of HP product units shipped each year, including notebooks, tablets, desktops,  mobile computing devices, workstations, displays, and digital signage  HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, Scitex, and Jet  Fusion 3D printers  and scanners. 
     Greenhouse  gas emissions from product use in 2017 and 2018 differ by less than 1% from the values reported on page 23,  due to rounding. Greenhouse gas emissions from product use in 2019 differ by less than 1.5% from the values reported on  pages 19 and 23, due to rounding.  
    Data for 2017 2019 better reflect average laser printer paper usage. This represented the majority of the increase compared  to 2015 and 2016. 
    Total  water consumption related to product use differs by less than 1% from the values reported on page 24, due to rounding. 
      Beginning in 2017, our LaserJet power usage data more accurately reflects typical idle and print energy. These changes were  not applied retroactively. Scope 3 emissions from inkjet and LaserJet printers that HP manufactures for sale and service by  other original equipment manufacturers is excluded from this data. In 2019, these printers represented less than 2.4% of  HP printers manufactured in the reporting year and consequently, their associated emissions represented less than 3.7% of  the product life cycle emissions of all HP manufactured printers. Scope 1 and 2 emissions from the manufacturing of these  printers at HP operated facilities is captured in the Scope 1 and 2 data reported in this year s report. 
    In some cases, segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 
Product repair, reuse, and recycling  
107  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Total recycling, by type [tonnes] 
Total recycling of hardware and supplies   [tonnes, approximate] 119,900 141,500 133,800 133,100 
Electronic equipment repaired [units] 5,050,000 4,600,000 4,340,000 4,620,000 
Electronic equipment remarketed and reused [units] 1,250,000 1,270,000 1,250,000 1,210,000 
Number of countries and territories with HP return and   recycling programs 73 74 74 76 
HP toner cartridge recycling 
Total recycling, by region [tonnes] 
Composition [%] 
HP toner cartridges   15,400 14,800 15,300 14,300 
Hardware 102,800 125,200 117,100 117,400 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 59,200 64,100 62,900 62,400 
HP LaserJet market covered by program [%] 92% 92% 91% 91% 
HP ink cartridges   1,700 1,500 1,400 1,400 
Asia Pacific and Japan 11,900 16,300 15,700 16,600 
Americas 48,800 61,100 55,200 54,100 
Material recovered for recycling 80.9% 83.9% 82.1% 83.4% 
Materials used for energy recovery 16.8% 13.2% 14.7% 13.7% 
Reuse of components 2.3% 2.9% 2.9% 2.5% 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix 
2016 2017 2018 2019 
     Beginning in 2017, our LaserJet power usage data more accurately reflects typical idle and print energy. These changes were  not applied retroactively. Indirect water consumption from inkjet and LaserJet printers that HP manufactures for sale and  service by other original equipment manufacturers is excluded from this data. In 2019, these printers represented less than  2.4% of HP printers manufactured in the reporting year and consequently, their associated indirect water consumption during  product use represented less than 3.5% of the product life cycle water consumption of all HP manufactured printers. Water  consumption from the manufacturing of these printers at HP operated facilities is captured in the direct water consumption  data reported in this year s report. 
      Data for 2017 2019 better reflect average laser printer paper usage. This represented the majority of the increase compared  to 2015 and 2016.  
    Personal systems and home and office printers values are based on individual product data. Estimates for home and office  printers volumes do not include graphic arts, industrial, web press printers, scanners, or ink or toner cartridges. Product  data for personal systems is based on calendar year for 2015 and 2018, and fiscal year for 2016 2017 and 2019. Personal  systems data for 2015 2018 are updated to reflect tonnes and not U.S. tons. Product data for home and office printers is  based on calendar year for 2015 and fiscal year for 2016 2019. Home and office printers data for 2018 are updated to correct  a calculation error. Net revenue data is based on HP s fiscal year. 
    This value is stated as 0.0 due to rounding. 
    Includes cartridges returned by customers only. 
    Totals include all hardware and supplies returned to HP for processing, with ultimate dispositions including recycling, energy  recovery, and, where no suitable alternatives exist, responsible disposal. HP LaserJet toner and ink cartridge recycling  data is for calendar year. The remaining data is based on the HP fiscal year. Although for HP print cartridges we report  the composition of recovered materials, we cannot provide this data for hardware because we do not have operational  control over all recycling processes and so do not have access to this information. In some cases, segments do not add up  to total due to rounding. Although we do not include data prior to 2016 in the Product repair, reuse, and recycling section,  the vast majority of product hardware recycling data, and all toner and ink cartridge recycling data, reported in past years  was associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. Through 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company reported  1,497,500 tonnes of cumulative computer hardware and supplies recycling combined.  
HP ink cartridge recycling 
Composition [%] 
HP ink market covered by program [%] 91% 87% 89% 90% 
Materials recovered for recycling 77.9% 73.9% 74.6% 74.2% 
Materials used for energy recovery 21.6% 23.7% 23.7% 25.8% 
Reuse of components 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 
Material in storage pending processing 0.4% 0.5% 0.7% 0.0% 
Material in storage pending processing 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 
Incineration 0.0% 0.0% 0.3% 0.5% 
Landfill 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 
Incineration 0.0% 1.8% 1.0% 0.0% 
Landfill 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 
Products and solutions 
2016 2017 2018 2019 
108  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
109 About this report 
111  Policies and standards 
112  Independent accountants  review report 
114  Material issues 
116  United Nations Global Compact index 
117  United Nations Sustainable Development Goals index 
118  Sustainability Accounting Standards Board index 
119  Global Reporting Initiative index 
125  Endnotes 
Appendix Operations Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights Footprint Sustainable Impact Products and solutions 
About this report 
HP has reported yearly on its social and  
environmental progress since 2001.  
We provide in-depth information to  
stakeholders, including customers, industry  
analysts, socially responsible investors,  
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs),  
employees, sustainability specialists,  
governments, and others. 
To determine report contents, we consider: 
Reporting scope  and measures 
109  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
In addition to our Sustainable Impact Report,  
we report on our programs and progress on  
our Sustainable Impact website on an ongoing  
basis. Our past reports are available online. 
  Input from executives and content  
  Input from external stakeholders. 
  The broader sustainability context and trends. 
  Our materiality assessment. 
  This report describes HP s Sustainable  
  External standards and frameworks such  
  Global reporting trends and best practices. 
experts across HP. 
Impact policies, programs, and goals. It  
as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  
Sustainability Reporting Standards, the  
United Nations (UN) Global Compact, and  
the UN Sustainable Development Goals. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
Metrics and goals 
The metrics in this report are HP data,  
unless stated otherwise. Collecting data  
from hundreds of global sites is complex,  
and the process can vary by issue, business  
unit, function, and geography. As a result,  
company-wide metrics can be difficult  
to define and implement. We continue to  
standardize our measurement systems  
  The information in this report is current  
  The performance data in this report  
  All references to years are to HP s fiscal  
  All references to dollars are to U.S. dollars.  
   Tonnes  refers to metric tons. 
includes HP s performance data through  
FY2019 (which ended October 31, 2019),  
unless stated otherwise. 
as of the date of its initial publication. The  
report has not been updated to reflect  
any changes since that date, including  
any changes to HP s business or strategy.  
HP assumes no obligation and does not  
intend to update this report to reflect any  
such changes.   
covers 100% of HP s global business  
operations and or revenue, as of HP s  
most recently completed fiscal year,  
unless stated otherwise.  
year, which ends October 31, 2019, unless  
stated otherwise.  
and metrics. Data is rounded to reflect the  
appropriate level of certainty. 
Reporting performance beyond our  
immediate operations is also challenging. We  
must make assumptions when estimating  
Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions,  
product energy consumption and resulting  
GHG emissions, the percentage of HP  
products that are recycled, and other metrics.  
Where appropriate, we provide context for  
data to help readers understand limitations  
and draw appropriate conclusions. 
Forward-looking content reflects approaches,  
goals, and priorities established by the HP  
teams responsible for implementing them.  
These were set in consultation with internal,  
and in some cases external, stakeholders and  
consider leading corporate practices.  
Your comments and suggestions are  
important to us. Please provide any  
feedback on this report, our performance, or  
our website using our online form. 
External verification 
Assurance demonstrates that information  
in this report describes our performance  
accurately and completely.  
In 2019, HP engaged Ernst   Young LLP  
(EY) to perform an independent review  
of selected key performance indicators in  
In addition, the following data received  
external assurance this year:  
our HP 2019 Sustainable Impact Report.  
This process was conducted in accordance  
with attestation standards established by  
the American Institute of Certified Public  
Accountants. 
For a full listing of the indicators within  
the scope of EY s review, please see the  
Independent accountants  review report.  
  Product repair, reuse, and recycling:  
  Supply chain: HP participates in the  
Through ERM, HP audited 34 vendor  
facilities in 24 countries during 2019.  
This included repeat audits of 30 vendor  
facilities to evaluate their efforts to  
improve performance. Learn more in  
Product reuse and recycling vendors.  
Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)  
Validated Assessment Program (VAP),  
which uses independent external  
auditors to audit our suppliers  social and  
environmental responsibility performance  
against HP Supplier Code of Conduct  
requirements. Learn more in Supply chain  
responsibility. 
Forward-looking statements 
This document contains forward-looking statements based  on current expectations and assumptions that involve risks  and uncertainties. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize  or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP Inc. and  its consolidated subsidiaries may differ materially from those  expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements   and assumptions. 
All statements other than statements of historical fact are  statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements,  including, but not limited to, any statements regarding the  potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the actions  by governments, businesses and individuals in response to  the situation  projections of net revenue, margins, expenses,  effective tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash  flows, benefit plan funding, deferred taxes, share repurchases,  foreign currency exchange rates or other financial items  any  projections of the amount, timing or impact of cost savings  or restructuring and other charges, planned structural cost  reductions and productivity initiatives  any statements of the  plans, strategies and objectives of management for future  operations, including, but not limited to, our business model  and transformation, our sustainability goals, our go-to-market  strategy, the execution of restructuring plans and any resulting  cost savings, net revenue or profitability improvements  or other financial impacts  any statements concerning the  expected development, performance, market share or  competitive performance relating to products or services   any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic  trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on  HP and its financial performance  any statements regarding  pending investigations, claims or disputes  any statements  of expectation or belief, including with respect to the timing  and expected benefits of acquisitions and other business  combination and investment transactions  and any statements  of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward- looking statements can also generally be identified by  words such as  future,   anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   
110  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
 expects,   intends,   plans,   predicts,   projects,   will,    would,   could,   can,   may,  and similar terms. 
Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include factors relating  to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the actions by  governments, businesses and individuals in response to the  situation, the effects of which may give rise to or amplify  the risks associated with many of these factors listed here   HP's ability to execute on its strategic plan, including the  recently announced initiatives, business model changes and  transformation  execution of planned structural cost reductions  and productivity initiatives  HP's ability to complete any  contemplated share repurchases, other capital return programs  or other strategic transactions  the need to address the many  challenges facing HP's businesses  the competitive pressures  faced by HP's businesses  risks associated with executing HP's  strategy and business model changes and transformation   successfully innovating, developing and executing HP's  go-to-market strategy, including online, omnichannel and  contractual sales, in an evolving distribution and reseller  landscape  the development and transition of new products  and services and the enhancement of existing products and  services to meet customer needs and respond to emerging  technological trends  successfully competing and maintaining  the value proposition of HP's products, including supplies  the  need to manage third-party suppliers, manage HP's global,  multi-tier distribution network, limit potential misuse of pricing  programs by HP's channel partners, adapt to new or changing  marketplaces and effectively deliver HP's services  challenges  to HP's ability to accurately forecast inventories, demand and  pricing, which may be due to HP's multi-tiered channel, sales  of HP's products to unauthorized resellers or unauthorized  resale of HP's products  integration and other risks associated  with business combination and investment transactions   the results of the restructuring plans, including estimates  and assumptions related to the cost (including any possible  disruption of HP's business) and the anticipated benefits of the  restructuring plans  the protection of HP's intellectual property  
assets, including intellectual property licensed from third  parties  the hiring and retention of key employees  the impact  of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events  risks  associated with HP's international operations  the execution  and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers,  customers, clients and partners  disruptions in operations from  system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks,  extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics  such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and other natural or manmade  disasters or catastrophic events  the impact of changes in tax  laws  potential liabilities and costs from pending or potential  investigations, claims and disputes  and other risks that are  described in HP's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended October 31, 2019, HP's Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2020, and HP's  other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
As in prior periods, the financial information set forth in this  document, including any tax-related items, reflects estimates  based on information available at this time. While HP believes  these estimates to be reasonable, these amounts could differ  materially from reported amounts in HP's Quarterly Reports on  Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended April 30, 2020 and July  31, 2020, Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  October 31, 2020 and HP's other filings with the Securities and  Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements in  this document are made as of the date of this document and  HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these  forward-looking statements. 
HP's Investor Relations website at investor.hp.com contains a  significant amount of information about HP, including financial  and other information for investors. HP encourages investors  to visit its website from time to time, as information is updated,  and new information is posted. The content of HP's website is  not incorporated by reference into this document or in any other  report or document HP files with the SEC, and any references to  HP's website are intended to be inactive textual references only. 
Policies and standards 
Sustainable Impact 
Environment 
111  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
  HP Sustainable Impact and Human   
  Global Harassment-Free Work  
  Global Nondiscrimination Policy 
  Open Door Policy 
  Climate Action Policy Position 
  Environmental, Health, and Safety   
  Export of Electronic Waste to Developing  
  General Specification for the Environment  
  Hardware Recycling Standard 
  Hardware Reuse Standard 
  Materials and Chemical Management  
  Sustainable Paper and Wood Policy 
Rights Policy 
Environment Policy  
(EHS) Policy 
Countries Policy 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
Privacy and data security 
Supply chain responsibility 
  Supplier Code of Conduct 
  Supply Chain Foreign Migrant Worker  Standard 
  Supply Chain Social and Environmental  Responsibility Policy 
  Anti-Corruption Policy  
  Contingent Worker Code of Conduct 
  Corporate Governance Guidelines 
  Global Business Amenities Policy 
  Integrity at HP 
  Partner Code of Conduct 
  U.S. Public Sector Code of Conduct 
  Privacy Statement 
  Standard for Information Protection and  
  Student and Dispatch Worker Standard for  Supplier Facilities in the People s Republic  of China (PRC) 
Security for Suppliers Partners 
Engagements). Those standards require  
that we plan and perform our review to  
obtain limited assurance about whether  
Engagements and AT-C section 210, Review  
Independent accountants  review report 
To the Stockholders and the  Board of Directors of HP Inc. 
We have reviewed the Schedule of Select   
Sustainability Metrics (the "Subject  Matter")  
included in Appendix A and as presented in  
the HP Inc. ("HP") 2019 Sustainable Impact  
Report (the "Report") for the year ended  
October 31, 2019, in accordance  with  
HP's criteria  set  forth in Appendix  A (the  
"Criteria").  We did not review all information  
included in the Report. We did not review  
the narrative sections of the Report, except  
where they incorporated the Subject Matter.  
HP's management is responsible  for  the  
Subject  Matter included in Appendix A and as  
also presented in the Report, in accordance  
with the Criteria. Our responsibility is to  
express a conclusion on the Subject Matter  
based on our review. 
Our review was conducted in accordance  
with attestation standards established  
by the American Institute of Certified  
Public Accountants ((AICPA) AT-C section  
105, Concepts Common to All Attestation  
112  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
any material modifications  should be  
made to  the Subject  Matter in order for  
it to be in accordance with the Criteria.  
A review consists principally of applying  
analytical procedures, making inquiries  
of persons responsible  for  the Subject   
Matter, obtaining an understanding of the  
data management  systems and processes  
used to  generate, aggregate and report the  
Subject Matter and performing such other  
procedures as we considered necessary in  
the circumstances. A review is substantially  
less in scope than an examination, the  
objective of which is to obtain reasonable  
assurance about whether the Subject Matter  
is in accordance with the Criteria, in all  
material respects, in order  to express an  
opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such  
an opinion. A review also does not provide  
assurance that we became aware of all  
significant matters that would be disclosed  
in an examination. We believe that our  
review provides a reasonable basis for our  
conclusion. 
In performing our review, we have also  
complied with the independence and other  
ethical requirements set forth in the Code  
of Professional Conduct and applied the  
Statements on Quality Control Standards  
established by the AICPA. 
As described in Note A, the Subject Matter  
is subject  to  measurement  uncertainties   
resulting  from limitations inherent in  
the nature and the methods used for  
determining such data. The selection of  
different but acceptable measurement  
techniques can result in materially different  
measurements. The precision of different  
measurement techniques may also vary. 
Based on our review, we are not aware of  
any material modifications that should be  
made to the Schedule of Select Sustainability  
Metrics included in Appendix A for the year  
ended October 31, 2019, in order for it to be  
in accordance with the relevant Criteria. 
May 8, 2020  
San Jose, CA 
Ernst   Young LLP  303 Almaden Blvd  San Jose, CA 95110  United States of America  Tel:  1 (408) 947-5500  ey.com 
Appendix A   HP Inc. (HP) Schedule of Select Sustainability Metrics 
Note A: Non-financial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data.   The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. 
1  To calculate GHG emissions, for all indicators we use the Global Warming Potentials (GWP) from the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) except for perfluorinated compounds (PFC), where  we use the GWP from the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4). 
2 Carbon Accounting Manual is available at http:  h20195.www2.hp.com V2 getpdf.aspx c05179524.pdf. 
3 Where possible, based on HP lnc.'s reporting timeline and requirements, HP Inc. uses the most up-to-date emission factors available at the time. 
4 Direct energy use refers to direct energy consumption in HP's operations including natural gas, renewable energy generated on-site and diesel oil gas LPG, similar to the Scope 1 emissions   boundary. Transportation fleet, refrigerants,  and perfluorinated compounds are excluded from direct energy use, although they are included in the Scope 1 GHG emissions boundary. 
5 Indirect energy includes purchased electricity and steam and does not include renewable energy purchases. 
6  Direct water consumption for HP operations. 
7 Note that sewage treatment plant (STP) water is not included within the scope of water consumption. 
113  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Scope 2 GHG emissions (market-based-method) Global tCO2e 153,900 
Voluntary purchases of renewable energy Global MWh 231,561 GRI Standard 302 and HP management definitions disclosed in  the HP 2019 Sustainable Impact Report 
Direct water consumption6  Global Cubic meters 2,930,000   GRI Standard 303 and HP management definitions disclosed in  the HP 2019 Sustainable Impact Report7 
Indirect energy use (corresponds to Scope 2 emissions)5 Global MWh 561,569 GRI Standard 302 and HP management definitions disclosed in  the HP 2019 Sustainable Impact Report 
Scope 1 greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions1 Global Tonnes of carbon dioxide   equivalents (tCO2e) 61,900 World Resources Institute ("WRI")   World Business Council for  Sustainable Development's ("WBCSD") The Greenhouse Gas  Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard,  Global Reporting Initiative ("GRI") Standard 305 and HP's Carbon  Accounting  Manual2 Scope 2 GHG emissions (location-based-method)3 Global tCO2e 226,400 
Indicator name Scope Unit Reported value  Criteria 
Nonhazardous waste (for Palo Alto, California, site only)  Global Tonnes 145 GRI Standard 306 and HP management definitions disclosed in  the HP 2019 Sustainable Impact Report 
Direct energy use in operations (corresponds to   Scope 1 emissions)4 Global MWh 133,851 GRI Standard 302 and HP management definitions disclosed in  the HP 2019 Sustainable Impact Report 
Scope 3 GHG emissions Global tCO2e 46,570,000 WRI WBCSD's The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value  Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, GRI  Standard 305 and HP's Carbon Accounting Manual2  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
Material issues 
The following table summarizes issues determined to meet the materiality threshold for this report. 
114  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Climate change Working across our value chain and in collaboration with external partners  to address the risks, opportunities, and impacts of climate change on our  business, customers, the natural environment, and society, with a focus on  resilience and adaptation. 
Energy use and GHG  emissions Improving energy efficiency, increasing renewable energy use, and reducing  the GHG emissions of HP s operations, including our owned and leased  facilities and auto aviation fleet, and our supply chain, including product  transportation and logistics. 
Packaging Decreasing the environmental impact of HP packaging, including by reducing  materials use, increasing the use of recycled and biodegradable materials, and  eliminating deforestation and single-use plastic associated with packaging,  where feasible. 
Paper and printed materials Advancing more sustainable printing by HP and our customers through the  sourcing, use, and recycling of paper and other printed materials, enabling  more efficient printing practices, and addressing the impacts of deforestation. 
Product energy efficiency Increasing the energy efficiency of HP products and services, and enabling  customers to reduce energy use through efficient product fleets. Energy Products and solutions Create a low-carbon future 
Diversity and inclusion Fostering diversity and inclusion within our workforce, supply chain, and  communities worldwide. Building a workforce representative of our customer  base and communities. 
Human capital Attracting, retaining, and developing human capital to meet current and future  business needs. Providing compensation, benefits, and wellness programs  that support engaged and productive employees and promote work life  balance, as well as managing the negative impacts of workforce reductions  and relocations. 
Human rights Respecting human rights throughout our value chain consistent with  international norms, remedying human rights abuses in our operations and  the customer use of products and services where we caused or contributed to  the impact. 
Issue  Description GRI Standards topic(s) Topic boundary  Location in report 
Circular economy Managing product life cycles through design criteria and business models  that: promote product serviceability and longevity  enable usage as a service   increase repair, reuse, recycling, recycled content, and closed material loops   and dematerialize processes and products. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
GHG emissions are addressed   in the next row Supply chain 
Materials Supply chain 
Materials Supply chain 
Diversity and Equal Opportunity Supply chain 
Employment 
Labor Management Relations 
Training and Education 
Human Rights Assessment Supply chain 
Materials Supply chain 
HP operations Employee engagement 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
Supply chain (first- and second-tier  suppliers, Scope 3 emissions) 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
Products and solutions 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
Advancing a circular and low-carbon economy 
Product repair, reuse, and recycling 
Products and solutions portfolio 
Supply chain responsibility: Environmental  impact: GHG emissions 
Our facilities: GHG emissions 
Supply chain responsibility: Environmental  impact: GHG emissions 
Our facilities: GHG emissions 
Packaging innovation 
Paper and forestry products 
Supplier diversity 
Diversity and inclusion 
Employee development 
Compensation and benefits 
Human rights 
Supply chain responsibility 
115  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Data and product security Designing products and processes that protect the collection, analysis,  use, storage, transfer, and sharing of information from unwanted parties,  unauthorized access, and security threats, including cyberattacks. 
Sourcing and supply chain  labor practices Monitoring and strengthening social and economic conditions throughout  our supply chain, and addressing key areas of risk and opportunity such as  working hours and conditions, wages and benefits, capability building, health  and safety, humane treatment of workers, prevention of slavery and forced  labor, and responsible minerals sourcing. 
Community investment and  involvement Supporting employee volunteering and charitable giving, and providing  corporate financial and in-kind contributions for underserved communities  and underrepresented populations. 
Role of IT in society Enhancing the impact of digitalization on healthcare, education, and  the workplace, including delivering IT solutions that improve access and  opportunities and enable customers and communities to make progress  toward the Sustainable Development Goals. 
Governance 
Corporate governance Maintaining the standards, structures, and processes to ensure the diversity  and independence of the Board of Directors, and the effective governance  of HP, including the company's Sustainable Impact strategy, goals, and  programs. 
Ethics and anti-corruption Promoting high ethical standards and combating corruption in all of our  business interactions, including in joint ventures and with business partners,  customers, suppliers, and distributors. 
Privacy Collecting, analyzing, using, storing, transferring, and sharing information in  ways that uphold the right to privacy and personal data protection. Complying  with evolving privacy laws and standards. 
Issue  Description GRI Standards topic(s) Topic boundary  Location in report 
Product and operational  health and safety Working to create a healthy, safe, and secure working environment in our  supply chain, operations, and for our customers, including managing the use  of materials, chemicals, and substances of concern in the manufacturing and  use of our products. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
No GRI-specific Topics Supply chain 
Indirect Economic Impacts 
Nondiscrimination 
Freedom of Association and  Collective Bargaining 
Child Labor 
Forced or Compulsory Labor 
Human Rights Assessment 
Supplier Environmental  Assessment 
Supplier Social Assessment 
Indirect Economic Impacts Community giving and volunteerism 
No GRI-specific Topics Products and solutions Community giving and volunteerism 
No GRI-specific Topics HP operations Sustainable Impact: Governance 
Anti-corruption Supply chain (interactions with suppliers,  business partners, and contractors) 
Customer Privacy HP operations (employees)   
Occupational Health and Safety 
Customer Health and Safety 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
Supply chain (first- and second-tier  suppliers  sub-tier suppliers in high-risk  areas such as the Democratic Republic of  Congo  there are multiple tiers between HP  and smelters that trade with exporters). 
We ask that first-tier suppliers  communicate our HP Supplier Code  of Conduct to their suppliers, thereby  propagating the requirements to our  sub-tier suppliers. 
HP operations 
Products and solutions (interactions with  business partners and customers) 
Products and solutions (customers and  partners) 
Supply chain 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
Governance 
HP 2020 Proxy Statement 
Supply chain responsibility: Health and safety 
Health and safety 
Product safety 
Supply chain responsibility 
Social impact 
Cybersecurity 
Product security and privacy 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
 To promote higher standards across the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and   anti-corruption, we endorse the United Nations Global Compact as a practical framework for   the development, implementation, and disclosure of sustainability policies and practices.   
United Nations Global Compact index 
HP is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a set of voluntary commitments for companies to improve human rights, labor conditions,  
the environment, and anti-corruption controls. This table links to the sections of this report that address the Global Compact s 10 principles. 
116  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Enrique Lores, President and Chief Executive Officer, HP Inc. 
Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights 
Labor standards 
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the  effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining  
Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor  Human rights 
Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor  and Human rights 
Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and  occupation. 
Principle Information in report 
Human rights 
Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of  internationally proclaimed human rights  and 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
Human rights 
Supply chain responsibility 
Our employees 
Supply chain responsibility 
Human rights 
Supply chain responsibility 
Supply chain responsibility 
Supply chain responsibility 
Human rights 
Supply chain responsibility 
Diversity and inclusion 
Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally  friendly technologies. 
Anti-corruption 
Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including  extortion and bribery. 
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental  responsibility  and 
Principle Information in report 
Environment 
Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to  environmental challenges  
Supply chain responsibility:  Environmental impact 
Our facilities 
Advancing a circular and  low-carbon economy 
Products and solutions portfolio 
Supply chain responsibility:  Environmental impact 
Our facilities 
Advancing a circular and  low-carbon economy 
Products and solutions portfolio 
Advancing a circular and  low-carbon economy 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
Supply chain responsibility 
United Nations Sustainable  Development Goals index 
HP supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We have existing programs that contribute to progress against 16 of the 17 goals  
and will continue to drive innovations that help achieve them. This table references sections of this report that relate to each goal. 
117  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
HP s actions Footprint, Supply chain  responsibility: Environmental impact:  GHG emissions, Our facilities: GHG  emissions 
HP s actions Supply chain responsibility,  Diversity and inclusion 
Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms  everywhere 
HP s actions Community giving and  volunteerism 
Goal 5 Achieve gender equality and  empower all women and girls 
Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat  climate change and its impacts 
Goal 17 Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development 
HP s actions HP supports the UN SDGs, the UN Global Compact, the Global Reporting Initiative,  and other global efforts to advance sustainable development. 
HP s actions Advancing a circular and  low-carbon economy, Products and  solutions portfolio 
Goal 9 Build resilient infrastructure,  promote sustainable industrialization  and foster innovation 
Goal 2 End hunger, achieve food security  and improved nutrition and promote  sustainable agriculture 
HP s actions No major programs at this  time 
Goal 6 Ensure access to water and  sanitation for all 
HP s actions Our facilities: Water, Supply  chain responsibility: Environmental  impact: Water 
Goal 14 Conserve and sustainably use  the oceans, seas and marine resource 
HP s actions Tackling ocean plastics 
Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and  among countries 
HP s actions Supplier diversity,  Community giving and volunteerism,  Global education programs 
Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote  well-being for all at all ages 
HP s actions Supply chain responsibility:  Health and safety, Our employees:  Health and safety, Wellbeing 
Goal 7 Ensure access to affordable,  reliable, sustainable and modern energy  for all 
HP s actions Renewable energy,  Products and solutions: Product energy  efficiency 
Goal 15 Sustainably manage forests,  combat desertification, halt and reverse  land degradation, halt biodiversity loss 
HP s actions Paper and forestry  products, HP Sustainable Forests  Collaborative 
Goal 11 Make cities inclusive, safe,  resilient and sustainable 
HP s actions Community giving and  volunteerism 
Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and quality  education for all and promote lifelong  learning 
HP s actions Global education programs,  Community giving and volunteerism 
Goal 12 Ensure sustainable consumption  and production patterns 
HP s actions Advancing a circular and  low-carbon economy, Products and  solutions portfolio 
Goal 16 Promote just, peaceful and  inclusive societies 
HP s actions Ethics and anti-corruption,  Human rights, Supply chain  responsibility 
Goal 8 Promote inclusive and sustainable  economic growth, employment and  decent work for all 
HP s actions Supply chain responsibility,  Community giving and volunteerism 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board index 
This table contains and refers to information related to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Hardware Sustainability Accounting Standard. 
   EPEAT data for personal systems is for models registered worwldwide and for printers is for models registered in the United States. ENERGY STAR data for personal systems (versions 7.0 or 7.1) is worldwide and for printers (version 3.0) is for products sold in the  United States. All data is for models shipped anytime during fiscal year 2019. 
118  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Product Security TC-HW-230a.1 Description of approach to identifying and  addressing data security risks in products 
Topic Code Metric 2019 reporting 
Product Lifecycle  Management TC-HW-410a.1 Percentage of products by revenue that contain IEC  62474 declarable substances 100% of HP electronic products may contain small amounts of some of the chemicals on the IEC 62474 declarable substances list.  HP has tracked and restricted the substances of concern in our products that have been identified as highest priority for restriction in  jurisdictions worldwide. Any remaining uses of substances of concern in products are for applications that lack viable alternatives or  substances of lower regulatory priority. All electronics companies still have products which claim RoHS exemptions or REACH candidate  substances when there is no current viable alternative. For example, 100% of electronics products still contain some amount of lead used  in specialized applications that are allowed under RoHS exemptions. Also, ethylene glycol dimethyl ether (EGDME), for which there is no  known replacement, is used in all coin cell batteries. 
Employee Diversity and  Inclusion TC-HW-330a.1 Percentage of gender and racial ethnic group  representation for (1) management, (2) technical  staff, and (3) all other employees 
Supply Chain Management TC-HW-430a.1 Percentage of Tier 1 supplier facilities audited in the  RBA Validated Audit Process (VAP) or equivalent, by  (a) all facilities and (b) high-risk facilities 
Materials Sourcing TC-HW-440a.1 Description of the management of risks associated  with the use of critical materials 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
TC-HW-430a.2 Tier 1 suppliers  (1) nonconformance rate  with the RBA Validated Audit Process (VAP) or  equivalent, and (2) associated corrective action  rate for (a) priority non-conformances and (b) other  nonconformances 
TC-HW-410a.2 Percentage of eligible products, by revenue,  meeting the requirements for EPEAT  registration  or equivalent 
C-HW-410a.4 Weight of end-of-life products and e-waste  recovered, percentage recycled 
TC-HW-410a.3 Percentage of eligible products, by revenue,  meeting ENERGY STAR  criteria 
In 2019, we completed 187 audits of production, nonproduction, and product transportation suppliers, and 60 other assessments of  production suppliers. During the year, 91% of production supplier audits were third-party certified RBA VAP audits. 
Supply chain responsibility: Audit results 
HP SEC Conflict Minerals Report 
HP Report on Cobalt 
Cybersecurity 
Product security and privacy 
Diversity and inclusion 
Our employees: Data 
72% of models of HP personal systems shipped in 2019 were EPEAT registered. 81% of models of HP printers shipped in 2019 were EPEAT  registered.   
91% of models of HP personal systems shipped in 2019 were ENERGY STAR qualified. 94% of models of HP printers shipped in 2019 were  ENERGY STAR qualified.  
Product certifications and disclosures 
During 2019, we recycled 117,400 tonnes of hardware, 14,300 tonnes of HP LaserJet toner cartridges, and 1,400 tonnes of HP ink cartridges. 
See Product repair, reuse, and recycling for additional detail, including recycling rates. 
Sixty-five initial audits and full re-audits of production suppliers conducted in 2019 identified 455 major nonconformances, equivalent to  7.0 per audit on average, and 6 immediate priority findings, equivalent to 0.092 per audit on average. 
Supply chain responsibility: Audit results 
Product repair, reuse, and recycling: Vendor audits 
Responsible minerals sourcing describes our program and performance related to conflict minerals, including tantalum and tungsten  which are defined as critical materials by the U.S. National Research Council. 
In addition, our minerals due diligence and reporting include cobalt, which is also defined as a critical material.  
We also increase our access to valuable materials through our product repair, reuse, and recycling programs.   
Product certifications and disclosures 
119  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Global Reporting Initiative index 
HP considered the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2016 Sustainability Reporting Standards in the development of this report.  
This index includes links to information about relevant Disclosures. 
Ethics and integrity 
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 111 
102-5 Ownership and legal form 4 , HP 2019 10-K 
102-13 Membership of associations  Affiliations and  memberships 
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4, 97, HP 2019 10-K  
102-3 Location of headquarters 4 
102-4 Location of operations HP 2019 10-K, Map of HP  supplier sites 
102-7 Scale of the organization 4, 5, 59,  HP 2019 10-K 
102-8 Information on employees   and other workers 
102-9 Supply chain 34 
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain HP 2019 10-K 
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 84 
102-12 External initiatives 12, 18, 30, 33,  34, 116 
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3 
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4, 7, 11, 114 
102-6 Markets served HP 2019 10-K 
Disclosure Location 
GRI 102: General Disclosures 
Organizational profile 
102-1 Name of the organization 4 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
A portion of the organization s work is performed by individuals other  than HP employees or other workers supervised by HP, including workers  employed or supervised by contractors. 
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 15 
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 14 
Governance 
102-18 Governance structure 15, Governance 
102-19 Delegating authority 15 
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 15 
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Governance 
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Governance 
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate governance  guidelines 
102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate governance  guidelines 
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Contacting the board    
102-36 Process for determining remuneration  HP 2020 Proxy Statement  
Stakeholder engagement 
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 14 
102-41 Collective bargaining   agreements 
102-35 Remuneration policies HP 2020 Proxy Statement  
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 27 
Disclosure Location 
The percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining  agreements (CBAs) is managed at a local level. As of October 31, 2019,  approximately 27% of employees company-wide were covered by a  union or CBA. 
15, Nominating,  Governance and Social  Responsibility Committee  charter 
120  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 
102-46 Defining report content and   topic Boundaries 
102-51 Date of most recent report June 2019 
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Feedback 
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance  with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards:   Core option. 
102-55 GRI content index 119 
102-56 External assurance 112 
102-48 Restatements of information Noted in sections as appropriate. 
102-49 Changes in reporting 
Disclosure Location 
102-43 Approach to stakeholder  engagement 
Reporting practice 
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements HP 2019 10-K 
102-50 Reporting period 109 
102-47 List of material topics 15, 114 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
Some forms of stakeholder engagement follow a set frequency, such as our  annual employee Voice Insight Action survey, yearly responses to rating  ranking questionnaires, and supplier audits. Other forms of engagement,  such as responses to customer requests for information about our  Sustainable Impact performance, collaboration with NGOs and industry  peers on specific issues, and discussion with policymakers, occur on an  ad hoc basis. Examples are included throughout this report. We consider  input from customers, NGOs, employees, investors, and others in the  preparation of our annual Sustainable Impact Report. 
This HP 2019 Sustainable Impact Report includes in-depth information  on our approach and performance across the broad range of  environmental, social, and governance issues. The standalone Executive  Summary provides a high-level overview of our Sustainable Impact  strategy and progress, and vision for the future. 
Our materiality assessment reflects the key topics and concerns that  have been raised through stakeholder engagement and various analysis.  This report describes how HP addresses those issues, including in some  cases through engagement with the relevant stakeholder groups. 
HP determined the boundary for each material issue in this report  based on input and review from executives and content experts. These  assessments considered the value chain phases in which the most  relevant impacts and opportunities occur. 
15, 109, 114 
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 41, 50, 65, 72 
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 28 
205-1 Operations assessed for risks  related to corruption 
GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series 
GRI 301: Materials 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
301-2 Recycled input materials used 85 
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 78, 107 
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 71 
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 84 
GRI 302: Energy 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
Material Topics 
GRI 200 Economic Standards Series 
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
Disclosure Location 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 41, 50, 72 
103-2 The management approach and its components 59, 61, 81 
103-2 The management approach and its components 27 
103-2 The management approach and its components 83 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  27, 114 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 83, 114 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 71, 81, 97 
103-2 The management approach and its components 41, 65 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 27 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83, 106 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 61, 81, 114 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  114 
Results of HP's internal assessments of corruption-related risks   are confidential. 
   Although this GRI Standards Topic was not determined to be material in HP s materiality assessment, we recognize that  it is relevant to some stakeholders and we provide information about HP s programs and performance in this area.  
121  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 51, 64, 71 
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 22 
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 61 
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 81, 97 
GRI 303: Water  
303-1 Water withdrawal by source 24, 51, 71 
303-3 Water recycled and reused 71 
GRI 305: Emissions 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 22 
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 23, 51, 106 
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 22 
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 42, 61 
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste  
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 72 
Disclosure Location 
302-3 Energy intensity 71 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
GRI 103: Management Approach   
103-2 The management approach and its components 44, 59, 62, HP water  accounting manual 
103-2 The management approach and its components 44, 59, 64 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51, 64, 71 
103-2 The management approach and its components 19, 42, 59, 61, HP carbon  accounting manual 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  19, 114 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24, 51, 71 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22, 51 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  20, 114 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 44, 64, 114 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment  
GRI 103: Management Approach   
GRI 402: Labor Management Relations 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time  employees that are not provided to  temporary or part-time employees 
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding  operational changes HP does not currently disclose this information. 
308-1 New suppliers that were screened  using environmental criteria 
GRI 400 Social Standards Series 
GRI 401: Employment 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
306-3 Significant spills 
Disclosure Location 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  42, 114 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  114 
103-2 The management approach and its components 35, 42, Our approach to a  sustainable supply chain 
103-3 Evaluation of the   management approach 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  114 
103-2 The management approach and its components 53 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 53, HP's approach to fair  and equitable pay 
103-2 The management approach and its components 58 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 58 
We determined that 93.2% of HP first-tier production suppliers, by  spend, had environmental management system (EMS) certification (e.g.,  ISO 14001) for manufacturing sites during 2019. Data represents review  of 94.6% of HP production spend. The HP Supplier Code of Conduct  requires our suppliers to have an effective EMS for manufacturing sites,  regardless of third-party certification. We audit suppliers to this standard. 
This is not practical to report by significant locations of operations, given  variation by country. 
More than 95% of HP production suppliers, by spend, have been screened  using environmental criteria. This includes new suppliers that were  onboarded during 2019. 
We apply the risk-prevention and management procedures of our  environmental, health, and safety management system to help prevent  unplanned releases at our facilities. In 2019, we experienced no  significant unplanned releases. 
122  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
403-2 Types of injury and rates of   injury, occupational diseases, lost days,  and absenteeism  and number of work- related fatalities 
GRI 404: Training and Education 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 57 
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 57 
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career   development reviews 
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men HP s approach to fair and  equitable pay 
Disclosure Location 
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
103-2 The management approach and its components 58, 59 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 70 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  56 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  53, 114 
103-2 The management approach and its components 56 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 56 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 53, 69 
103-2 The management approach and its components 53 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  58, 114 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
The types of injury HP recorded in calendar year 2019 included head  neck (19% of the total), hands wrists (37%), lower extremities (33%),  arms shoulders (16%), back (23%), and other (11%). Some injuries are  classified using multiple injury types. It is not practical to break down  the injury data that HP reports by employment contract (employees and  contractors that HP manages) or by gender. The occupational disease  rate at HP in calendar year 2019 was essentially zero. HP experienced  zero fatalities for the years reported (fiscal year 2016 and calendar years  2017 2019). HP does not report absentee rate. 
53, 69, HP Board of  Directors, HP 2020 Proxy  Statement 
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
GRI 408: Child Labor 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
406-1 Incidents of discrimination   and corrective actions taken 
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which  the right to freedom of association and  collective bargaining may be at risk 
GRI 406: Non-discrimination 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
Disclosure Location 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  114 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 114 
103-2 The management approach and its components 28, 35, Our approach to a  sustainable supply chain 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 49 
103-2 The management approach and its components 28, 35, Our approach to a  sustainable supply chain 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 49 
103-2 The management approach and its components 28, 35, Our approach to a  sustainable supply chain 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 49 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 114 
HP discloses the rates of conformance in production supplier sites  audited, as well as the data needed to calculate the approximate number  of nonconformances. Due to confidentiality, HP does not report details  regarding specific incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. 
HP discloses the rates of conformance in production supplier sites  audited, as well as the data needed to calculate the approximate  number of nonconformances. We require suppliers to train workers to  understand their rights concerning collective bargaining, and to allow  workers to associate freely without fear of discrimination, reprisal,  intimidation, or harassment. 
123  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
409-1 Operations and suppliers at  significant risk for incidents of forced or  compulsory labor 
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact  assessments 
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment  
GRI 103: Management Approach   
Disclosure Location 
408-1 Operations and suppliers at  significant risk for incidents of child labor 
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 49 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  37, 114 
103-2 The management approach and its components 28, 35, 37, Our approach to  a sustainable supply chain 
103-2 The management approach and its components 28, HP 2019 Human  Rights Progress Report 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 114 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28 
103-2 The management approach and its components 35, 45, Our approach to a  sustainable supply chain 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 50 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  28, 114 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
HP discloses the rates of conformance in production supplier sites audited,  as well as the data needed to calculate the approximate number of  nonconformances. To support rights in this area, HP has controls to meet  student and young worker requirements. In China, no more than 20% of the  direct labor supporting the manufacturing of HP products, packaging, parts,  components, subassemblies, and materials at any given facility should  consist of student workers at any point in time. We track performance in this  area through our KPI program. 
HP discloses the rates of conformance in production supplier sites audited,  as well as the data needed to calculate the approximate number of  nonconformances. See Combating forced labor for more detail about our  approach in this area. 
   Although this GRI Standards Topic was not determined to be material in HP s materiality assessment, we recognize that  it is relevant to some stakeholders and we provide information about HP s programs and performance in this area.  
    This includes issues determined to meet the materiality threshold for this report that are not already addressed   by the GRI Standards Topics in the index above. 
415-1 Political contributions 
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 
GRI 103: Management Approach  
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 90 
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses   of customer data 
Other material issues   
GRI 415: Public Policy  
414-1 New suppliers that were   screened using social criteria 
Disclosure Location 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
Corporate governance 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
103-2 The management approach and its components 30 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  90, 114 
103-2 The management approach and its components 33, HP Political  Contributions Policy 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 30, 114 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 
103-2 The management approach and its components 90 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 90 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33, 114 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  114 
More than 95% of HP production suppliers, by spend, have been screened  using social criteria. This includes new suppliers that were onboarded  during 2019. 
33, HP Corporate Political  Contributions, HP Employee  PAC Contributions, U.S.  lobbying expenditures 
33, HP Corporate Political  Contributions, HP Employee  PAC Contributions, U.S.  lobbying expenditures 
124  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Data and product security 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
Disclosure Location 
Role of IT in society 
GRI 103: Management Approach   
103-2 The management approach and its components 32, 91 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32, 91 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  32, 91, 114 
103-2 The management approach and its components 65,  92 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 72 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance, HP 2020 Proxy  Statement 
103-2 The management approach and its components 15, 26, Governance,  HP 2020 Proxy Statement 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 114 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
Additional information about the data presented in this report is available upon request. 
1  As of October 31, 2019. 
6  Renewable electricity purchased and generated on-site, combined with renewable electricity certificates and  guarantees of origin, accounted for 43% of our total consumption. 
7 This number does not include commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, packaging for those solutions,  scanners, or personal systems accessories sold separately. 
8 Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the  equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. 
9  Data refers to the percentage of HP 2019 Voice Insight Action (VIA) employee survey respondents who strongly agreed  or agreed with each statement. 
11 As of October 31, 2019. 
12 An industry standard for providing environmental information about products and product families. In 2019, HP  provided ECO Declarations for product groups representing 93% of revenue. 
Sustainable Impact 
Sustainable Impact strategy 
1  In 2019, we tracked more than  1.6 billion in sales wins (total contract value) in which sustainability criteria were a  known consideration and were supported actively by HP s Sustainability and Compliance organization, an estimated  69% increase over the  900  million reported in 2018. 
2 Excludes new hires joining HP after February 1, 2019 (although all new hires are given 30 days to complete Integrity at  HP New Hire training as part of their mandatory onboarding process). 
3 All HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging will be derived from certified and recycled sources by 2020,  with a preference for virgin fiber from certified sources of the Forest Stewardship Council  (FSC ). Packaging is the  box that comes with the product and all paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. Forest Stewardship  Council  (FSC ) HP License Code FSC -C017543. www.fsc.org. 
4 Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a percentage of total plastic used in all HP personal systems, printer hardware, and  print cartridges shipped during the reporting year. Total volume excludes brand-licensed products and after-market  hardware accessories. Total RCP includes postconsumer recycled plastic, closed-loop plastic, and ocean-bound  plastics used in HP products. Personal systems plastic is defined by EPEAT  eco-label criteria. Subject to relevant  restrictions on the use and distribution of materials destined for recycling and or recycled feedstocks.    
125  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
5 Calculated as the percentage of primary plastic packaging (by weight) reduced per unit shipped. Excludes secondary  and tertiary packaging components. Includes HP personal systems and printer hardware packaging. Does not include  packaging for the following: Graphics Solutions Business (GSB) hardware other than PageWide XL and DesignJet  printers  3D printing hardware  print supplies  refurbished products  and accessories such as third-party options, drop  in box, and aftermarket options. 
6  Product use GHG emissions intensity describes the performance of our portfolio, taking into account changes to  product mix and business growth. HP product use GHG emissions intensity measures per unit GHG emissions during  anticipated product lifetime use. These values are then weighted by contribution of personal systems and printing  products to overall revenue in the current year. These emissions represent more than 99% of HP product units  shipped each year, including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing devices, workstations, displays, and  digital signage  HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, Scitex, and Jet Fusion 3D printers  and scanners. 
7 All HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging will be derived from certified and recycled sources by 2020,  with a preference for virgin fiber from certified sources of the Forest Stewardship Council  (FSC ). Packaging is the box  that comes with the product and all paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. 
8 Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier production and product transportation suppliers  reported GHG  emissions attributable to HP divided by HP s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business  productivity. Intensity is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease the impact of variance year over year  and highlight longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. 
9  This continues a goal from before the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, extending the  goal to 2025. Includes data from suppliers associated with HP Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation business units. 
10 Progress through 2019 includes 77,800 factory workers in 2015, 45,700 in 2016, 119,900 in 2017, 12,000 in 2018, and  11,000 in 2019. 
11 This data does not include participation in RBA audits.  Participation in our supply chain sustainability programs   is quantified by those programs that go beyond audits to build supplier capabilities to meet our standards. This  includes deep dive assessment, weekly reporting of labor metrics, procurement engagement through our supplier  Sustainability Scorecard, and in-depth coaching and workshops tailored to supplier risks. 
12 The HP Foundation is a nonprofit, 501(c)3 organization. 
13 Includes valuation of employee volunteer hours, employee donations, HP Foundation match, and HP Foundation  grants. 
1  Carbon and water footprint data presented in this section related to our suppliers is calculated using product life cycle  assessment-based estimates for materials extraction through manufacturing and product transportation. Supply  chain GHG emissions and water withdrawal data presented on page 51 is based on a different methodology. 
Carbon and climate impact 
1  Key inputs to our business-as-usual scenario analysis include: (1) Transition risk assessment using (a) Shared  Socioeconomic Pathways Middle of the Road scenario (SSP2)  and (b) IEA Current Policies Scenario, which considers  policies and measures enacted into legislation by mid-2018. (2) Physical risk assessment using IPCC 5th Assessment  Report (AR5)   Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP) 8.5. 
2 Key inputs to our 1.5 C mean temperature increase scenario analysis include: (1) Transition risk assessment using  (a) Shared Socioeconomic Pathways Green Growth Strategy scenario (SSP2)  and (b) IEA SDS   Sustainable  Development Scenario (SDS). (2) Physical risk assessment using IPCC 5th Assessment Report (AR5)   Representative  Concentration Pathways (RCP) 4.5. Note: At the time our analysis began, our physical risk analytics tool did not factor  in RCP 2.6 impact. As such, our physical risk assessment was more reflective of a 2 C scenario. 
3 This table includes selected examples of how HP identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks and  opportunities. It is not intended to be comprehensive. This table does not intend to convey that the risks and  opportunities included are material from a financial perspective. Rather, it illustrates the scope and manner of how we  assess and address risks and opportunities in this area. 
1  The 3% decrease in our water footprint in 2019 compared to 2018, which contrasts a 5% increase in our carbon  footprint during that period, reflects differences in the two calculation methodologies related to the supply chain  phase. Details are available in the HP water accounting manual and the HP carbon accounting manual.  
Integrity and human rights 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
1  Excludes new hires joining HP after February 1, 2019 (although all new hires are given 30 days to complete Integrity at  HP New Hire training as part of their mandatory onboarding process). 
Human rights 
1  Corporate functions evaluated included Environment, Health, and Safety  Ethics and Compliance Office  Global Indirect  Procurement  Human Resources  Privacy  Supply Chain Responsibility  and World Technical Regulations. 
2 Salient human rights risks are risks associated with our activities or business relationships that are severe in potential  impact, reasonably likely to occur, and difficult to remediate. 
3 Excludes new hires joining HP after February 1, 2019 (although all new hires are given 30 days to complete Integrity at  HP New Hire training as part of their mandatory onboarding process). 
1  Excludes new hires joining HP after February 1, 2019 (although all new hires are given 30 days to complete Integrity at  HP New Hire training as part of their mandatory onboarding process). 
2 Published May 2018. https:  ec.europa.eu newsroom article29 item-detail.cfm?item id 613841 
3 HP cybersecurity baselines align with industry best practices recognized by ISACA, (ISC)2, ISSA, NIST, SANS, and  others. 
4 HP s ISO 27001 certifications in 2019 included: Customer Support Break Fix (Europe, Middle East, and Africa region)   DaaS Remote Monitoring   Management Services (within DaaS Proactive Management with TechPulse)  Indigo  Presses, Servers, and Software Solutions  India Sales Carry-In Support  MPS Remote Monitoring and Management   PSGO Dynamic Configuration Service  PSGO Image Load Service  UK and Ireland Sales. 
5 A cybersecurity event requires external disclosure if compelled by applicable laws or regulations. 
126  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
Supply chain responsibility 
1  HP uses the terms  production suppliers,   product transportation suppliers,  and  nonproduction suppliers   throughout this report.  Production suppliers  provide materials and components for our product manufacturing  and also assemble HP products, and are the primary focus of our HP Supplier Code of Conduct audits, assessments,  KPI program, Sustainability Scorecard, and capability-building initiatives.  Product transportation suppliers  provide  services for the shipping and delivery of HP products. Learn more in Supply chain responsibility: Environmental  impact.  Nonproduction suppliers  provide goods and services that do not go into the production of HP products (such  as staffing, telecommunications, and travel). These suppliers are a significant focus of our supplier diversity efforts. 
2 In 2019, the value of sales supported by HP s Sustainability and Compliance Organization includes retained, existing,  and new sales (including deals that may or may not ultimately result in new sales) and deals still in progress, where  supply chain responsibility was an area of particular interest for the customer. 
3 Progress through 2019 includes: 77,800 factory workers in 2015  45,700 in 2016  119,900 in 2017  12,000 in 2018   and 11,000 in 2019. 
4 This data does not include participation in RBA audits.  Participation in our supply chain sustainability programs   is quantified by those programs that go beyond audits to build supplier capabilities to meet our standards. This  includes deep-dive assessment, weekly reporting of labor metrics, procurement engagement through our supplier  Sustainability Scorecard, and in-depth coaching and workshops tailored to supplier risks. 
5 This data was updated August 22, 2020, to reflect the data associated with the reporting year and to correct  inaccurate data in the report published June 24, 2020. 
1  The term  forced labor  refers to situations in which people are coerced to work against their will, either overtly  through violence or intimidation, or by more subtle means such as accumulated debt, retention of identity papers,  and threats of denunciation. HP forbids any forced, bonded, or indentured labor, involuntary prison labor, slavery, or  trafficking of persons within its supply chain. 
2 We use these terms interchangeably when describing HP s existing programs and policies. 
Responsible minerals sourcing 
1   Conflict minerals  refers to the mineral precursors of the metals tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold (3TG) as defined in  the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rule requiring a conflict minerals disclosure. Revenue from mining  these minerals in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries has been widely linked to funding  for groups engaged in extreme violence and human rights atrocities. 
Supplier diversity 
1  The categories  large, B-BBEE compliant businesses  and  small and medium-sized businesses  may overlap with  firms with at least 51% black ownership, firms with at least 30% black women ownership, youth-owned firms, and  firms owned by people with disabilities. As a result, spending in some cases may be counted more than once. 
Environmental impact 
1  See HP Announces Supply Chain Goals to Enhance Environmental and Social Impact. 
2 Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier production and product transportation suppliers  reported GHG  emissions attributable to HP divided by HP s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business  productivity. Intensity is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease the impact of variance year over year  and highlight longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. 
3 This continues a goal from before the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, extending the  goal to 2025. Includes data from suppliers associated with HP Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation business units. 
4 These are the total GHG emissions reductions and financial savings reported by suppliers through CDP, not amounts  attributable to HP. 
Audit results 
1  Segments do not add up to 100% due to rounding. 
2 These include child labor, forced labor, severe forms of discrimination, health and safety issues posing immediate  danger to life or risk of serious injury, and perceived violation of environmental laws posing serious and immediate  harm to the community. We take such findings very seriously, and require suppliers to cease all related practices and  report corrective actions taken within 30 days of the original audit. Recruitment fees must be reimbursed within 90  days from discovery and are verified by an on-site inspection within 180 days from discovery. We follow up closely  to ensure that all required corrective actions are completed, and visit sites to confirm resolution. Immediate priority  findings do not necessarily involve termination of the supplier  we work with suppliers as appropriate to improve their  performance and worker conditions in these areas.  
Operations 
Our employees 
1  As of October 31, 2019. 
2 Prior to the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company. 
4 As of October 31, 2019.  
5 Data refers to the percentage of HP 2019 Voice Insight Action (VIA) employee survey respondents who strongly agreed  or agreed with each statement. 
7 Dion Weisler was our CEO throughout fiscal 2019. As of November 1, 2019, our CEO is Enrique Lores. 
8 During calendar year 2019, HP documented 120 recordable incidents, 48 lost workday cases, and 1,160 lost workdays. 
Our facilities 
1  Complex locations include sites above a certain size with research and development, production, or manufacturing  activities  sites with chemical lab operations  and sites with elevated risk due to regulatory reasons, such as placement  in countries where management can be held personally liable for injuries. 
2 As of October 31, 2019. 
3 HP directly tracks and reports nonhazardous waste data for the company s highest energy-consuming sites globally  (25 in 2019) that account for at least 70% of total energy consumption across our portfolio and are under HP s  operational control. These sites provide a representative sample of the main types of facilities in our portfolio from  across the regions where we operate.  
127  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
4 About GHG emissions data:   This report includes Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions data from HP s operations, transportation fleet, and employee  business travel, calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Business Council for Sustainable  Development (WBCSD) and World Resources Institute (WRI). See the HP 2019 carbon footprint for more details and an  overview of emissions across the value chain.  
5 This consisted entirely of NEWater (ultra-purified wastewater used in manufacturing operations in Singapore). Rain  water is not included. 
6  Beginning in 2019, HP directly tracks and reports nonhazardous waste data for the company s highest  energy-consuming sites globally (25 in 2019) that account for at least 70% of total energy consumption across our  portfolio and are under HP s operational control. These sites provide a representative sample of the main types of  facilities in our portfolio from across the regions where we operate. 
Community giving and volunteerism 
1  The HP Foundation is a nonprofit, 501(c)3 organization. 
2 Includes valuation of employee volunteer hours, employee donations, HP Foundation match, and HP Foundation grants. 
3 Hourly rate is based on type of volunteering:  195 hour for board, service corp, pro bono, and skills based   25.43  hour for hands-on and undetermined. Valuation of non-U.S. volunteering hours is adjusted using World Bank data for  purchasing power differences across countries. 
Products and solutions 
Advancing a circular and low-carbon economy 
1  According to a MASiE 2017 Report (January 2017, by Bobby Carlton): in a study carried out by the National Training  Laboratory. 
2 We conduct product carbon footprints (PCFs), a subset of life cycle assessment, of business HP desktops, notebooks,  tablets, workstations, thin clients, all-in-one computers, and displays to better understand performance of individual  products and our overall portfolio. These estimate total GHG emissions associated with a product over its lifetime  and include emissions from materials extraction, manufacturing, distribution, use, and end-of-life management. To  assess and report our complete personal systems product carbon footprint, we extrapolate these results to cover  99% of overall personal systems product sales (by unit and by revenue) during the reporting year. 
3 Based on ReCiPe(H)2016 LCA methodology using SimaPro 9.0.  
4 In 2019, HP tracked approximately  6 billion in new sales associated with deals in which it met customer requirements  for registered product eco-labels, including ENERGY STAR , EPEAT , and Blue Angel. 
5 Based on all-in-ones with self-serviceable hard drive, M.2 storage, webcam, and the ability to remove and service the  display and PC individually as of September 1, 2017. 
6  Based on plan usage, Internet connection to eligible HP printer, valid credit debit card, email address, and delivery  service in your geographic area. Number of countries is as of February 2020.  
7 Based on monthly subscription cost using only all pages in plan vs. cost per page of most color inkjet printers    399  USD. Color inkjet printers are selected by market share of IDC CYQ1 2019 Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker Final release.  Standard cartridge CPP is as per the Gap Intelligence Ink Monthly (5 12 2019) 201905Wk2 report. 
Data in this section for 2015 2019 uses the market-based method. In the data summary, we also include 2015 2019  data using the location-based method. See note   on page 23 for additional detail. 
  Scope 1 emissions include those from the direct use of natural gas, diesel fuel, refrigerants, and PFCs in operations  and from fuel used by HP s transportation fleet.    Scope 2 emissions are primarily from purchased electricity used in HP s operational real estate.    Scope 3 emissions reported in this section result from employee business travel by commercial airlines and from  commuting.  
8 Compared with non-subscription purchase and distribution of the same HP ink cartridges in stores. Based on a 2020  life cycle assessment (LCA) performed by Four Elements Consulting and commissioned by HP. 
9  This is the number of countries or territories where HP offers hardware recycling and or HP ink cartridge recycling  and or HP toner cartridge recycling. 
10 HP offers recycling of non-HP devices when replaced by HP equipment. 
11 Based on 2019 HP Supplies Survey in the United States, Canada, Mexico, UK, France, Italy, Spain, Germany, China,   and India conducted by Edelman Intelligence. 
12 HP Jet Fusion 3D printing solutions using HP 3D High Reusability PA 12 and HP 3D High Reusability PA 11 provide 80%  and 70%, respectively, postproduction surplus material reusability, producing functional parts batch after batch. For  testing, material is aged in real printing conditions and tracked by generations (worst case for reusability). Parts are  then made from each generation and tested for mechanical properties and accuracy. 
13 These include child labor, forced labor, severe forms of discrimination, health and safety issues posing immediate  danger to life or risk of serious injury, and perceived violation of environmental laws posing serious and immediate  harm to the community. We take such findings very seriously, and require suppliers to cease all related practices and  report corrective actions taken within 30 days of the original audit. Recruitment fees must be reimbursed within 90  days from discovery and are verified by an on-site inspection within 180 days from discovery. We follow up closely  to ensure that all required corrective actions are completed, and visit sites to confirm resolution. Immediate priority  findings do not necessarily involve termination of the supplier  we work with suppliers as appropriate to improve their  performance and worker conditions in these areas. 
14 The average energy consumption of HP products was estimated annually between 2010 and 2019 using high-volume  product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume personal systems product lines  include notebook and desktop computers, tablets, all-in-ones, workstations, thin clients, and displays. 
15 Energy consumption .835 kWh week based on Keypoint Intelligence Buyer s Laboratory test report  HP PageWide  Managed Color Flow MFP E77650z vs. Competitive Laser Models,  January 2019. 
16 Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) savings based on the average lifetime use of printing 100,000 pages, and excluding  paper. Peer-reviewed life cycle assessment models commissioned by HP and conducted by thinkstep for inkjet  (August 2016) and LaserJet (May 2016) and updated in 2018 comparing to comparable models of HP Color Laserjets.  Specific results run by HP internal LCA experts. 
17 HP calculations based on ENERGY STAR  normalized TEC data comparing the HP LaserJet 300 400 series and 500  series monochrome printers introduced in spring 2019. HP 58 59 76 77A X compared to HP 26A X, and HP 89A X Y  compared to HP 87A X. 
18 Product use GHG emissions intensity describes the performance of our portfolio, taking into account changes to  product mix and business growth. HP product use GHG emissions intensity measures per unit GHG emissions during  anticipated product lifetime use. These values are then weighted by contribution of personal systems and printing  products to overall revenue in the current year. These emissions represent more than 99% of HP product units  shipped each year, including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing devices, workstations, displays, and  digital signage  HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, Scitex, and Jet Fusion 3D printers  and scanners. 
19 Safer alternatives are rated as GreenScreen  benchmark 2 or better. This data point is calculated based on the total  mass of benign and safer alternatives divided by the total mass of products shipped. Commercial and industrial  graphics printing solutions products, as well as accessories and packaging for all HP products, are not included in this  total.  
20 This number does not include commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, packaging for those solutions,  scanners, or personal systems accessories sold separately. 
21 Renewable material, as defined in the Global Reporting Initiative Standards, is  material derived from plentiful  resources that are quickly replenished by ecological cycles or agricultural processes, so that the services provided by  these and other linked resources are not endangered and remain available for the next generation.  This data includes  paper, paper-based packaging, and wood pallets. 
22 Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a percentage of total plastic used in all HP personal systems, printer hardware, and  
128  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
23 This data was updated August 22, 2020, to correct a calculation error that resulted in inaccurate data in the report  published June 24, 2020. 
24 More than 82% of Original HP ink cartridges contain between 45 70% recycled content. 100% of Original HP toner  cartridges contain between 5 45% postconsumer or post-industrial recycled content. Does not include toner bottles.  See www.hp.com go recycledcontent for list. 
25 Compared to the majority of in-class A4 home color and mono inkjet cartridge and ink tank printers and all-in- ones   430 USD. Keypoint Intelligence   Buyers Lab September 2019 research study commissioned by HP, based  on research survey of printer manufacturers  published specifications, documentation and press releases as of  09 01 2019 and not confirmed by lab testing. Market share as reported by IDC Quarterly Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker  - Final Historical 2019Q2. Sustainable printing system defined by: zero carbon impact, carbon offset included (HP  offsets the carbon impact of HP Tango Terra manufacturing and transportation, electricity use, paper and Original  OEM cartridge consumption), 40% recycled content packaging, 100% curbside recyclable packaging, and EPEAT Gold  ecolabel. For details see: keypointintelligence.com HPTangoTerra. 
26 Based on HP internal analysis and research by Keypoint Intelligence   Buyers Lab, compared to majority of competing  in-class mobile color photo printers using paper up to 2.3 inches by 3.4 inches, priced   199.99 MSRP, as of  August 19, 2019.  Market share as reported by NPD GFK FYQ1 2019. Thin point measures .69    17.5 mm. Details at  www.keypointintelligence.com HPSprocketSelect. 
27 As defined by the IEEE 1680.1 2018 EPEAT standard. Data are fiscal year 2019. 
28 Less than 2% of paper by tonnage is not labeled as certified, but is made from certified fiber. Recycled fiber for paper  products is included in the FSC -certified value. 
29 All HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging will be derived from certified and recycled sources by 2020,  with a preference for virgin fiber from certified sources of the Forest Stewardship Council  (FSC ). Packaging is the box  that comes with the product and all paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. 
30 Previously called the HP Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy. 
31 Calculated as the percentage of primary plastic packaging (by weight) reduced per unit shipped. Excludes secondary  and tertiary packaging components. Includes HP personal systems and printer hardware packaging. Does not include  packaging for the following: Graphics Solutions Business (GSB) hardware other than PageWide XL and DesignJet  printers  3D printing hardware  print supplies  refurbished products  and accessories such as third-party options, drop  in box, and aftermarket options. 
32 Based on HP s internal analysis as of August 2019. Notebook speaker enclosure component made with 5% ocean- bound plastics as of August 2019. 
33 Display manufactured with 5% ocean bound plastic materials by weight. HP is using 12.7 grams per 16.9 ounce  single  serve  bottled water container based on this International Water Bottle Association reference. Drinking water bottles  equivalents diverted from the ocean pollution problem is OBP grams per product shipments   12.7 grams.   https:  www.bottledwater.org news weight-pet-bottled-water-containers-has-decreased-326-over-past-eight-years. 
34 Compared to the majority of in-class A4 home color and mono inkjet cartridge and ink tank printers and all-in- ones   430 USD. Keypoint Intelligence   Buyers Lab September 2019 research study commissioned by HP, based  on research survey of printer manufacturers  published specifications, documentation and press releases as of  09 01 2019 and not confirmed by lab testing. Market share as reported by IDC Quarterly Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker  - Final Historical 2019Q2. Sustainable printing system defined by: zero carbon impact, carbon offset included (HP  offsets the carbon impact of HP Tango Terra manufacturing and transportation, electricity use, paper and Original  OEM cartridge consumption), 40% recycled content packaging, 100% curbside recyclable packaging, and EPEAT Gold  ecolabel. For details see: keypointintelligence.com HPTangoTerra. 
35 Percentage of recycled material is based on empty weight.  
print cartridges shipped during the reporting year. Total volume excludes brand-licensed products and after-market  hardware accessories. Total RCP includes postconsumer recycled plastic, closed-loop plastic, and ocean-bound  plastics used in HP products. Personal systems plastic is defined by EPEAT  eco-label criteria. Subject to relevant  restrictions on the use and distribution of materials destined for recycling and or recycled feedstocks 
Product responsibility 
1  An HP printing system consists of an HP printer, paper, and Original HP supply. Blue Angel DE-UZ 205 emissions  criteria or earlier versions of criteria applicable when printing system launched. 
2 Nov 2019 WKI Blue Angel Indoor Air Quality study, commissioned by HP, in compliance with DE-UZ 205: 21 imitation  and five remanufactured toner cartridge brands compatible with HP Color LaserJet Pro MFP M477fdw (sku  CF410A,  411A, 412A, 413A) purchased in EMEA, LA and NA regions. See HP.com go IAQnonhpWKI2019.  
3 Nov 2019 Intrinsik risk evaluation commissioned by HP. Based on 2019 Blue Angel indoor air quality compliance study  which included VOCs emitted from imitation and remanufactured toner cartridges in accordance with DE-UZ 205 and  health-based screening levels established by USEPA (2019) and Cal EPA Department of Toxic Substances Control  (2019a). See HP.com go IntrinsikNonHPtoner2019. 
4  World s most secure and manageable PC  claim is based on HP s unique and comprehensive security capabilities at  no additional cost and HP s Manageability Integration Kit s management of every aspect of a PC including hardware,  BIOS and software management using Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager among vendors with 1M  annual unit sales as of November 2016 on HP Elite PCs with 7th generation and higher Intel  Processors, Intel   integrated graphics, and Intel  WLAN. 
5 Based on HP s internal analysis of isolation backed, deep learning endpoint security services including SaaS and  managed services. Most advanced based on application isolation and deep learning endpoint protection on Windows  10 PCs as of March 2020. 
6  HP acquired Bromium in September 2019. 
7 Based on HP s internal analysis of unique and comprehensive capabilities among Application Isolation and  Containment security solutions. Requires Microsoft Windows 8 or 10. Microsoft Word, Excel, or PowerPoint protection  requires an Office license. Adobe PDF protection requires Adobe Acrobat Reader. 
8 HP s most advanced embedded security features are available on HP Enterprise-class devices with FutureSmart  firmware 4.5 or above and are based on HP review of 2016 2017 published embedded security features of  competitive in-class printers. Only HP offers a combination of security features for integrity checking down to the  BIOS with self-healing capabilities. For a list of compatible products, visit: hp.com go PrintersThatProtect. For more  information, visit: www.hp.com go printersecurityclaims.  
Social impact 
1  World Economic Forum, The Future of Jobs Report 2018, September 17, 2018. 
2 As of March 2020. 
3 See user guide for cleaning instructions and approved cleaning solutions. 
4 HP Healthcare Edition MFPs are general-purpose printing and multifunction printing devices and are not intended for  use in diagnosis, disease, or other medical conditions. 
5 Cerner EMR software required and sold separately. Biscom software is available on the HP cloud platform.  Subscription required. 
6  Most secure based on HP s unique and comprehensive security capabilities at no additional cost among vendors with   1M unit annual sales as of November 2016 on HP Elite PCs with 7th gen and higher Intel  Core Processors, Intel   integrated graphics, and Intel  WLAN. 
7 Based on HP review of 2018 published security features of competitive in-class printers. Only HP offers a combination  of security features that can monitor to detect and automatically stop an attack then self-validate software  integrity in a reboot. For a list of printers, visit hp.com go PrintersThatProtect. For more information: hp.com go  printersecurityclaims.  
8 International Society for Prosthetics and Orthotics   World Health Organization 
129  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
Products and solutions portfolio 
1  As defined by the IEEE 1680.1 2018 EPEAT  standard. Data are fiscal year 2019. 
2  World s most secure and manageable PC  claim is based on HP s unique and comprehensive security capabilities at  no additional cost and HP s Manageability Integration Kit s management of every aspect of a PC including hardware,  BIOS and software management using Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager among vendors with 1M  annual unit sales as of November 2016 on HP Elite PCs with 7th generation and higher Intel  Processors, Intel   integrated graphics, and Intel  WLAN. 
3 32 Gold, 280 Silver EPEAT-registered HP Personal Systems products in 19 countries, as of October 2019. 
4 Based on US EPEAT registration according to IEEE 1680.1-2018 EPEAT. Status varies by country. Visit   
6  As defined by the IEEE 1680.1-2018 standard definition of in-scope plastic and recycled plastic. 
7 Display manufactured with 5% ocean bound plastic materials by weight. HP is using 12.7 grams per 16.9 ounce  single  serve  bottled water container based on this International Water Bottle Association reference. Drinking water bottles  equivalents diverted from the ocean pollution problem is OBP grams per product shipments   12.7 grams.   https:  www.bottledwater.org news weight-pet-bottled-water-containers-has-decreased-326-over-past-eight-years. 
8 Based on HP s internal analysis as of August 2019. Notebook speaker enclosure component made with 5% ocean- bound plastics as of August 2019. 
9  With HP Long Life 4-cell battery. By weight. Mechanical parts include chassis, speaker box, keycap mechanism, battery  frame, and other small mechanical parts. Applies to Dragonfly Family starting mid-2020. 
10 Based on US EPEAT registration according to IEEE 1680.1-2018 EPEAT. Status varies by country. Visit   
11 Based on compact business convertibles with 8th Gen Intel  Core  i U series processor, Windows Pro OS, vPro  and a  convertible non-detachable design under 59 cubic inches as of August 2019. 
12 Starting weight less than 1kg is only available in certain configurations. 
13 HP Forest Positive Printing framework will go beyond existing HP sustainable fiber sourcing programs. It includes NGO  partnerships targeted to protect forests, improve responsible forest management and help develop Science Based  Targets (SBT) for responsible management of forests. Our vision is that printing with HP will protect forests regardless  of what brand of paper customers use. 
14 Compared to the majority of in-class A4 home color and mono inkjet cartridge and ink tank printers and all-in- ones   430 USD. Keypoint Intelligence   Buyers Lab September 2019 research study commissioned by HP, based  on research survey of printer manufacturers  published specifications, documentation, and press releases as of  09 01 2019 and not confirmed by lab testing. Market share as reported by IDC Quarterly Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker  - Final Historical 2019Q2. Sustainable printing system defined by: zero carbon impact, carbon offset included (HP  offsets the carbon impact of HP Tango Terra manufacturing and transportation, electricity use, paper, and Original  OEM cartridge consumption), 40% recycled content packaging, 100% curbside recyclable packaging, and EPEAT Gold  ecolabel. For details see: keypointintelligence.com HPTangoTerra. 
15 HP will offset the carbon impact of manufacturing and transportation, electricity use, paper, and Original OEM  cartridge consumption. 
16 An HP printing system consists of an HP printer, paper, and Original HP supply. Blue Angel DE-UZ 205 emissions  criteria or earlier versions of criteria applicable when printing system launched. 
17 Nov 2019 WKI Blue Angel Indoor Air Quality study, commissioned by HP, in compliance with DE-UZ 205: 21 imitation  and five remanufactured toner cartridge brands compatible with HP Color LaserJet Pro MFP M477fdw (sku  CF410A,  411A, 412A, 413A) purchased in EMEA, LA and NA regions. See HP.com go IAQnonhpWKI2019.  
www.epeat.net for more information. 
www.epeat.net for more information. 
18 HP s most advanced embedded security features are available on HP Enterprise-class devices with FutureSmart  firmware 4.5 or above and are based on HP review of 2016 2017 published embedded security features ofcompetitive  in-class printers. Only HP offers a combination of security features for integrity checking down to the BIOS with self- healing capabilities. For a list of compatible products, visit: hp.com go PrintersThatProtect. For more information,  visit: www.hp.com go printersecurityclaims. 
19 Compared to the majority of in-class A4 home color and mono inkjet cartridge and ink tank printers and all-in- ones   430 USD. Keypoint Intelligence   Buyers Lab September 2019 research study commissioned by HP, based  on research survey of printer manufacturers  published specifications, documentation and press releases as of  09 01 2019 and not confirmed by lab testing. Market share as reported by IDC Quarterly Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker  - Final Historical 2019Q2. Sustainable printing system defined by: zero carbon impact, carbon offset included (HP  offsets the carbon impact of HP Tango Terra manufacturing and transportation, electricity use, paper, and Original  OEM cartridge consumption), 40% recycled content packaging, 100% curbside recyclable packaging, and EPEAT  Gold  ecolabel. For details see: keypointintelligence.com HPTangoTerra. 
20 Tango Terra is certified as CarbonNeutral in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol.  
21 Forest Stewardship Council  (FSC ) HP License Code FSC -C017543. www.fsc.org. 
22 EPEAT registered where applicable. EPEAT registration varies by country. See http:  www.epeat.net for registration  status by country. 
23 HP calculations based on ENERGY STAR  normalized TEC data comparing the HP LaserJet 300 400 series and 500  series monochrome printers introduced in spring 2019. HP 58 59 76 77A X compared to HP 26A X, and HP 89A X Y  compared to HP 87A X. 
24 Constant toner self-reload using imaging-drum-in-place OEM toner supplies compared to majority of worldwide  competing OEM monochrome laser printers   250 Euro and MFPs priced   350 as of Nov 15, 2018. HP internal  research   Keypoint Intelligence-Buyers Lab 2018 study commissioned by HP. Market share as reported by IDC CYQ4  2018 Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker, 2018Q4 Release. For details, see keypointintelligence.com HPNeverstop. 
25 An HP printing system consists of an HP printer, paper, and Original HP supply. Blue Angel DE-UZ 205 emissions  criteria or earlier versions of criteria applicable when printing system launched. 
26 See: http:  h22235.www2.hp.com hpinfo globalcitizenship environment productdata itecotoner-cart.html   and www.hp.com go msds. 
130  HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT www.hp.com sustainableimpact 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions 
38 Weight reduction calculated based on: Aluminum machined part 355g. HP Multi Jet Fusion technology part 23g.  
27 Environmental footprint includes printer and supplies: raw material extraction and processing, printer manufacturing  and transportation as well as electricity, drum and reload kit use, paper use, and end of use. 
28 Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) savings of HP Neverstop Laser 1000a with CTSS technology vs. HP LaserJet Pro  M15w is based on the average lifetime use of printing 50,000 pages. Peer-reviewed life cycle assessment models  commissioned by HP and conducted by thinkstep. Results reviewed by HP internal LCA experts. Analysis completed  June 27, 2019. 
29 HP Neverstop is made with more than 25% recycled plastic by weight of plastic. 
30 EPEAT registered where applicable. EPEAT registration varies by country. See http:  www.epeat.net for registration  status by country. 
32 Deinking tests conducted by Cadel Deinking verified that HP Indigo digitally printed flexible packaging, including  coating, can be fully deinked. Test results obtained a product with a quality similar to that of new plastic. HP Indigo  ElectroInks and Michelman primers have been certified by TUV Austria for use as printing inks for compostable labels  and flexible packaging (up to certain allowable limits) per the EU standard for compostability testing EN 13432. 
33 PWI inks used to print on corrugated packaging meet the recyclability requirements of PTS Method RH 021 87.  
34 HP Jet Fusion 3D Printing Solutions using HP 3D High Reusability PA 12 and HP 3D High Reusability CB PA 12 provide  up to 80% powder reusability ratio, producing functional parts batch after batch. For testing, material is aged in real  printing conditions and powder is tracked by generations (worst case for reusability). Parts are then made from each  generation and tested for mechanical properties and accuracy. 
35 Low-carbon footprint per printed HP Multi Jet Fusion part for runs of 1,500 or less when compared to injection molded  parts. Data comes from an ISO 14040 44 compliant and peer reviewed LCA study. 
36 HP Multi Jet Fusion technology on average  30 watt-hours per cubic cm for the end-to-end processes (pre- processing, printing, and post-processing). 
37 Carbon footprint reduction calculated based on: Aluminum machined part carbon footprint 19.7 kg CO2e  HP Multi Jet  Fusion technology carbon footprint 0.97 kg CO2e. 
Microsoft  and Windows  are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States  and or other countries. Intel  and Intel  Core  are trademarks of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United  States and or other countries. Adobe  and Acrobat  are trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated. ENERGY STAR  is  a registered mark owned by the U.S. government. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 
SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT 
2019 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
2 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Our vision is to  create technology  that makes life  better for everyone,  everywhere   every person, every  organization, and  every community  around the globe. 
3 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Fifty years ago, a remarkable group of people came  together to celebrate the very first Earth Day. Their goal  was simple: to unite the world behind  the common cause  of saving life.  
Today, we remain committed to that same common cause.  And as we work to safeguard our planet and respond to  this ongoing pandemic, we are fighting to protect the  health and wellbeing of people everywhere. 
The profound impact COVID-19 has had on the lives and  livelihoods of people across the globe has served as a  powerful reminder that our fates are inextricably linked.  Because we ve seen that many of the threats we face  from a changing climate to a spreading virus transcend  borders and put all of us at risk.   
That s not to say these challenges affect all of us  equally. They don t. COVID-19 and climate change both  disproportionately impact communities of color and lower  income households around the world. These crises have  laid bare the need to address the systemic racism and  deep inequalities from health and education to economic  opportunity and the environment that have been a  stain on society for far too long. And we are acting with  urgency on all fronts.  
Since the onset of the pandemic, HP has protected  its employees while marshalling resources to support  communities in need. From 3D printing medical supplies for  hospitals to equipping teachers, students, and families with  the technology and content they need for continued remote  learning, I m proud of the way our teams have stepped up. 
Our response reflects the values that guide our company  not simply in moments of crisis, but as a normal course of  
business. And we must continue to find new ways to positively  impact the planet, people, and communities we serve. 
Letter from   President and CEO 
  I believe all companies must continue   to find new ways to lead with purpose,  and positively impact the planet, people  and communities they serve.  
    We sourced more than 1 million pounds of ocean-bound  plastic for use in our products, and we are on track with  our plans to increase recycled content in our products to  30% by 2025. We also intend to eliminate 75% of single- use plastic from our packaging over the next five years.  
    We are more than halfway to achieving our science- based goal of reducing product use greenhouse gas  emissions intensity by 30% by 2025. And we were one  of only eight companies to receive a triple-A rating from  CDP for our work across climate change, forests, and  water security.  
    We continue to move toward a sustainable future for  printing that is forest positive, carbon neutral, and  supportive of a circular economy. For example, through  the Sustainable Forests Collaborative, we are working to  protect, restore and manage more than 200,000 acres  of forests in Brazil and China. 
    We have now reached more than 28 million students,  teachers, and adult learners through our educational  programs and partnerships and we are tracking toward  our goal of enabling better learning outcomes for 100  million people by 2025.  
This isn t just the right thing to do it s also good for our  bottom line. In 2019, our Sustainable Impact work helped  drive more than US 1.6 billion in new sales a testament  to the high-performance, purpose-driven culture that  unites our people and our partners. 
It also reflects the changing role of corporations in society.  We must not only create value for our shareholders, but  also create a brighter future for all our stakeholders. 
In this report, we have outlined the progress we are  making as well as the areas where we need to do better.  Here are some of the highlights: 
Enrique Lores  President and CEO 
    We continue to foster a culture of diversity and inclusion.  HP has the most diverse Board in the U.S. technology  industry, and 63% of our U.S. hires in 2019 were from  underrepresented groups. But we must do much more  particularly when it comes to the number of Black  employees hired and retained at HP. That s why we plan  to double our number of Black and African American  executives by 2025. And we are committed to doing the  hard work needed to help stamp out systemic racism  and discrimination in all its forms. 
While the road ahead will be difficult, I m confident in  our ability to drive meaningful and lasting change. 
My confidence comes from the incredible people I  work with at HP people with a shared commitment to  empowering humanity through technology, standing up  for what we believe in, and leaving the world better off  than we found it. 
But HP can t do it alone. No company can. Which is  why it is encouraging and inspiring to see so many  companies, governments, and NGOs finding new ways  to work together on shared solutions. 
Ultimately, that s how we will overcome the challenges  we face and create a more sustainable, equitable, and  just society. And there has never been a better time  for all of us to not only imagine the future we want to  create, but to start building it together. 
4 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Meeting   a Critical  Moment 
HP s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
5 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Supporting Our Teams 
The COVID-19 pandemic has  challenged all of us businesses  large and small, local and national  governments, families and  individuals in ways few of us  could have imagined.  
The wellbeing of our employees,  partners, customers and their  families is our number one  priority, and we have taken a  wide range of actions across our  business to keep people safe.  We swiftly took action to protect  our people in line with public  health guidance mandating  work from home, prohibiting  travel, restricting site access,  and putting in place enhanced  sanitization processes.  
Additional measures HP has   implemented during this time  include assisting our hourly  employees and certain contingent  
workers with continued pay  and other supporting benefits,  deferring workforce reduction  notifications, and offering  employees virtual office hours  with our in-house medical doctor.  And, we moved quickly to help  our employees and customers  adjust to a new reality  keeping  them connected to work and to  one another through the power  of technology. 
Secure Technology 
Our  HP Goodwill and Outreach  Campaign  provides our clients,  our partners, employers, employees  and HP with guidance and best  practices for ensuring the use of  technology is safe, secure and  private while working from home.  Several white papers outline best  practices for remote workers,  employees and employers. 
Community Support 
At the same time, we have  remained committed to supporting  communities around the world.  
    HP and the HP Foundation  contributed financial resources  to support affected communities. 
    Together with nonprofit  partners, we launched and  promoted several initiatives  aimed at supporting teachers,  students, and school districts  through a range of digital and  printed educational resources. 
    HP is working with its global  digital manufacturing community  to mobilize 3D printing teams,  technology, experience, and  production capacity to help  deliver critical parts in the  effort to battle the COVID-19  pandemic. Initial applications  being validated and finalized for  potential industrial production  include face masks, face shields,  mask adjusters, nasal swabs,  hands-free door openers, and  respirator parts. 
    To address potential  cybersecurity risks for those  working or learning from home,  HP is offering its HP Sure Click  
People First 
Our business touches every  corner of the world, with a  common culture that is built on  integrity and trust. We continue  to put people first and commit  the full force of HP to helping our  employees, partners, customers,  and communities navigate the  road ahead and create a safer,  more resilient and sustainable  future for all. 
Read the latest on HP s   response to COVID-19. 
    We are also deploying HP  BioPrinters and associated  supply cassettes, free of  charge, to nongovernmental  organizations (NGOs),  government agencies, and  pharmaceutical companies to  accelerate drug and vaccine  research to combat COVID-19. 
Pro version for free until the  end of September 2020. 
6 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Table of Contents 
10  HP s Sustainable   Impact Journey 
12 Make, Use, Reuse:    Circular Economy 
13 Tackling Plastic Waste 
15 Climate Action 
16 Eliminating Deforestation 
17  A More Sustainable   Workplace 
18  Ensuring Respect and   Dignity for All People 
19  Ethical and Sustainable   Supply Chain 
07 Recognition 
08  Sustainable   Impact Strategy 
20  Embracing Diversity   to Fuel Innovation 
22  Investing in Our  Human Capital 
24 Global Education 
25 Local Impact 
26 Contributing to our    Communities  
27 Goals and Progress 
31 Forward-Looking     Statements 
32 Endnotes For additional detail, download HP s 2019  Sustainable Impact Report.  
In developing this report, HP considered the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) 2016 Sustainability Reporting Standards and the Sustainability  Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards. It includes information on  HP s Sustainable Impact strategy, programs and performance data through  FY2019 (which ended October 31, 2019), unless stated otherwise. The  information in this report is current as of the date of its initial publication.  
7 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
HP is recognized as  one of the world s most  sustainable companies. 
Read more in HP s 2019 Sustainable Impact Report. 
SELECT AWARDS AND RECOGNITION 
 Reprinted with permission from Barron s and Wall Street Journal. 
8 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Sustainable   Impact Strategy 
Creating lasting, positive change for the  planet, our people, and the communities  where we live, work, and do business. 
Community People 
Read more in HP s 2019 Sustainable Impact Report. 
Transform our entire business to drive a more efficient,   circular, and low-carbon economy. 
Enable our customers to invent the future through our most  sustainable portfolio of products and services. 
Enable all people who help bring our products to market   to thrive at work, at home, and in their communities. 
Embed diversity and inclusion in everything we do. 
Unlock educational and economic opportunity through the  power of technology. 
Improve the vitality and resilience of our local communities. 
9 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
in new sales influenced by   Sustainable Impact.1  1.6B    
year-over-year increase in   value of new sales influenced   by Sustainable Impact.2  69% 
10 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
HP s Sustainable Impact Journey 
Over the last 80 years, HP has led with purpose. Today, Sustainable  Impact is at the heart of our reinvention journey, inspiring our  innovation and driving us to create technology that makes life better  for everyone, everywhere. 
Below is a selected set of milestones from  HP s Sustainable Impact journey. 
1940  Recorded first charitable donation of  5  to local charities.  
1957  Citizenship is included in the company s  first written set of corporate objectives the   HP Way. 
1966  Started program for recycling punch  cards in Palo Alto, California. 
1972  Adopted a manufacturing policy to  protect the environment. 
1979  Formed the HP Company Foundation. 
1986  Awarded  Friends of Recycling  by  City of Palo Alto to recognize the company s  comprehensive recycling program. 
1991  Established the HP Planet Partners  product return   recycling program. 
1992  Launched the product-focused Design  for Environment (DfE) program. 
1993  Eliminated ozone-depleting chemicals   in manufacturing operations. 
1996  Voluntarily agreed to reduce air  emissions of PFCs (perfluorocarbons). 
1997  Became the first major computer  manufacturer to operate its own end-to-end  recycling facility located in Roseville, California. 
2001  Opened second state-of-the-art  recycling facility in Nashville, Tennessee.  
2002  Published Supply Chain Code of Conduct. 
2003  Released first HP hardware product  containing recycled plastic. 
2004  To promote social responsibility across  global IT supply chains, HP co-developed the  Electronic Industry Code of Conduct.  
2005   2006  Expanded product take-back  and recycling programs to European Union,  Asia Pacific, and Japan.  
2007  First IT company to publish greenhouse  gas (GHG) emissions associated with product  manufacturing. 
11 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
2014  Launched  Matter to a  Million  a groundbreaking,  employee engagement partnership  with Kiva that ran until 2018. 
2008  Published IT industry s first  forestry policy. 
2013  First company in the  industry to set a supply chain  GHG emissions intensity  reduction goal, and first  company globally to publish its  complete carbon footprint.  
2009  Signed the 2009  Copenhagen Communiqu  on  Climate Change, calling for a  UN climate framework to be  developed.  
2014  Released industry-leading  foreign migrant worker standard. 
2015  HP Inc. was formed with  one of the most diverse Board of  Directors in the U.S. technology  industry. 
2016  Launched innovative joint  initiative to build an ocean-bound  plastic supply chain in Haiti.  
2017  40 Days of Doing Good grant  and volunteering program created. 
2016  Committed to using   100% renewable electricity in   its operations and joined RE100. 
2018  Hosted HBCU Business  Challenge and sponsored the  HBCU Business Dean s Roundtable 
2018  Signed the Oslo Climate  Leadership Declaration and the  Step Up Declaration.  
2019  Reached 100 Business  Impact Networks, up from 32 at  the time of separation in 2015.  
2019  Established industry- leading goal to increase the use  of recycled plastic in products.  
  There has never been a  better time for all of us to  imagine the future we want  to create together.  
Enrique Lores  President and CEO 
2019  First company to offer  EPEAT  Gold products under the  EPEAT 2019 eco label registry.  
2019  Introduced HP Sustainable  Forests Collaborative. 
12 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Make, Use, Reuse 
Accelerating the shift to a more circular   and low-carbon economy in 2019. 
reduction in   product use GHG  emissions intensity,  since 2015.6 43% 
of materials used   in HP products and  packaging were  renewable and sus- tainably sourced.4 
tonnes of   supply chain   CO2e emissions  avoided.5 
tonnes of recycled  plastic3 used in HP  products 9% of all  plastics used. 
renewable   electricity use in  global operations. 
Design out   waste and use   materials responsibly 
Create a  low-carbon future 
Improve product   energy efficiency,   and decrease product   use carbon and   water footprints. 
Increase materials  efficiency, use more  recycled content, and  replace materials   of concern. 
Strategies to Enable a More Circular  and Low-Carbon Economy 
Increased global consumption. Faster cycles of innovation. Fluctuating costs of  materials. Pressures on global waste and recycling infrastructure. Supply chain  transparency. Social and environmental responsibility. 
Global trends are forcing corporations, governments, and consumers to radically   rethink the  take, make, dispose  consumption model. HP is responding by transforming  our entire business for a circular and low-carbon future. As a result, we are able to derive  more value from materials, reduce our value chain impacts, and deliver transformative  solutions for our customers.  
Focus on tackling ocean  plastic pollution, and   protect and restore   global forests. 
Design products for long   life, offer service-based   solutions, and recapture   products and materials   at end-of-service. 
Keep materials  and products in use 
Regenerate natural systems 
units of   hardware  repaired. 
pounds of  ocean-bound  plastics sourced  for use in   HP products,  since 2016. 
units of   hardware  remarketed   and reused. 
acres to be restored  and protected  through the HP  Sustainable Forests  Collaborative. 
tonnes of   hardware and  supplies recycled. 
13 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Tackling  Plastic Waste 
Leading the industry to incorporate   postconsumer plastic into our products   and keep it out of the ocean. 
HP announces goal   to eliminate 75% of   single-use plastic  packaging by 2025.7 
Closed-Loop Recycling 
HP has been a leader in closed-loop plastic  recycling for decades, since the founding   of HP s Planet Partners recycling program   in 1991.  
Since 1991, HP has kept: 875 million   HP cartridges, 114 million apparel hangers,   and 4.69 billion postconsumer plastic bottles  out of landfills instead, upcycling them to  make new HP products. 
As of 2019, we have  already reduced  plastic packaging by since 2018.8 
of plastic used in   HP personal systems  and print products  in 2019 was from  postconsumer  recycled sources.9 
Read more about HP s Plastic Strategy   and our  World s First  products, made   with ocean-bound plastics. 
14 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Expanding Our Impact 
In January 2020, HP joined Project STOP helping to create a   circular waste management system in East Java, while also creating   income-generation opportunities including for those who work in the   informal waste sector. 
In April 2020, HP partnered with UL on the first ever certification for  ocean-bound plastics. 
Since 2016, HP has been working to reduce ocean-bound plastic through  our pilot program in Haiti. These efforts have already diverted more than  35 million plastic bottles from reaching the waterways and oceans.  
Turning Off the Tap 
Since 2016:  
pounds of ocean- bound plastics  sourced for use   in HP products. 
people gained access  to educational and  health services. 
local income  opportunities  created.10 1,110  
new technology-  enabled schools. 
15 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Climate Action 
Climate change is one of the most  significant and urgent issues facing  business and society today. The science   is clear, the impacts are serious, and  action is essential. 
HP was named to the CDP Climate A list for the  sixth year in a row. We achieved a triple  A  score  for transparency and action on climate, forests,  and water, and were recognized as a CDP   Supplier Engagement Leader.  
HP s carbon footprint in 2019 equaled 46,785,800 tonnes of CO2e,   5% more than in 2018. A 12% increase in product manufacturing   emissions due largely to business growth and changes in the mix  of key personal systems products and components more than   offset a 3% reduction in product use phase emissions driven by  improved product energy efficiency.  
We are working to reduce climate impacts across our entire   value chain, investing in renewable electricity, setting public and   science-based GHG emissions reduction goals, and transparently  reporting on our progress.  
tonnes of supply  chain CO2e emissions  avoided, since 2010.11 
Through 2019: 
renewable electricity  use in global  operations in 2019 
2019 Carbon Footprint 
decrease in product  use GHG emissions  intensity, compared to 2015.12 
16 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Eliminating  Deforestation 
Protecting and restoring global forests. 
In 2016, we set a goal to  eliminate deforestation from  our paper and paper-based  packaging supply chain.13 In  2019, we maintained zero  deforestation associated with  HP brand paper, and continue  to work to achieve zero  deforestation associated with HP  paper-based product packaging  by the end of 2020. 
We help customers print more  responsibly by designing printers  and software to optimize paper  use and improving the recyclability  
The paper used by our customers in HP products  represents about 20% of our carbon footprint  and 35% of our water footprint. 
of paper by developing solutions  for paper de-inking.  
Together with WWF and other  partners, the HP Sustainable  Forests Collaborative will focus  on restoring and improving the  management of nearly 200,000  acres (over 80,000 hectares) of  forests in Brazil and China, by  the end of calendar year 2024.  The area of forest that will be  under these projects would  produce enough paper to run  through all HP consumer printers  over four years.  
17 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
A More   Sustainable  Workplace 
At our 174 sites in 60 countries around the  world, we are taking action to reduce our  climate, water, and waste impacts, and to  engage our employees in creating a more  sustainable workplace. 
reduction in Scope 1 and Scope  2 GHG emissions from global  operations, compared to 2015. 
WATER WASTE 
reduction in potable water con- sumption in global operations,   compared to 2015 achieving  our goal six years early. 
Employee Engagement 
sites worldwide held  events during 2019  Earth Day and World  Environment Day, with  a focus on decreasing  single-use plastics. 
HP employees   families  volunteered for Global  Shoreline Cleanups at  27 sites, collecting over  9 tonnes of trash. 
240,400 MWh  
of renewable electricity and   attributes procured and generated by  HP operations, equivalent to 43% of  our global electricity consumption. 
landfill diversion rate   globally for nonhazardous  waste and used electronic  equipment recovered from   HP operations. 
HP employees from   43 sites took part in   the Northwest Earth   Institute EcoChallenge. 
18 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Ensuring Respect  and Dignity for   All People 
Respect for Human Rights is a core value   at HP good for people, and for business. 
Read more in HP s Human Rights Progress Report. 
Within HP and across our value chain, we champion diversity and  inclusion, and partner to empower all workers. We are committed  to protecting the privacy of our employees and customers, and  protecting their personal information. Access to a quality education  is a fundamental human right through our technology, programs  and partnerships we aim to bridge the digital divide and connect  people and communities to greater opportunity. 
HP respects the human rights defined by the following organizations: 
HP ranked third among the 40 information and  communications technology (ICT) manufacturing  companies assessed in the 2019 Corporate  Human Rights Benchmark (CHRB). 
19 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Ethical and  Sustainable   Supply Chain 
Improving the lives of people   who make our product and   strengthening the communities   where they live and work. 
Any connection between the materials used  in HP products and armed violence or human  rights abuses is unacceptable. Read more in  our SEC Conflict Minerals Report, Modern  Slavery Transparency Statement, and Report  on Cobalt. 
HP relies on one of the IT industry s largest supply chains, made up  of hundreds of production suppliers and thousands of nonproduction  suppliers. Through our comprehensive social and environmental  responsibility programs, we aim to ensure that all workers who  help to bring our products to market are treated with dignity and  respect, and that our suppliers are our partners in creating a more  sustainable future for all. 
In 2019, unless otherwise noted: 
Read more about our approach to a sustainable supply chain. 
supplier factory workers  participated in seven  programs at supplier  sites in five countries  during 2019.14 
of first-tier production  suppliers, by spend,  reported using renewable  energy in 2018  47%  reported renewable  energy use goals. 
increase in participation  in HP s supply chain  sustainability programs,  compared to 2015.15 
of first-tier production  suppliers, by spend,  reported having GHG  emissions reduction  related goals in 2018. 
Suppliers   representing 
of HP s total production  supplier spend have  gone through a social  and environmental  assessment.  
of suppliers, by  spend, have set water  management goals   in 2018. 
20 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Embracing Diversity  to Fuel Innovation 
Reinventing the standard for diversity and  inclusion in how we operate as a business  and how we impact society. 
The best innovation springs from teams of individuals, each  collaborating and contributing their own perspectives, knowledge,  and experiences to advance how the world works and lives.  
Inclusive design: By designing for a range of access needs, HP is  helping to ensure that the benefits of our innovative technology  empower people worldwide. 
Pay equity: We believe people should be paid for what they   do and how they do it, regardless of their gender, race, or other  personal characteristics.  
In February 2020, HP re-committed to the  CEO Action for Diversity   Inclusion, the  largest CEO-driven business commitment to advance diversity and inclusion in   the workplace. 
21 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
HP Demographics 
WOMEN AT HP 
Executives reporting  directly to CEO Women at director  level or above (up  from 21.7% in 2015) 
Women in sales roles  (all levels) 
U.S. minorities  40% 
Supply Chain Diversity 
HP S BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
overall economic impact from   HP s Supplier Diversity program, in 2019 
Women in legal,  finance, HR, marketing, and communications   (on average) 
U.S. minorities 33% 
Exceeded target for  hiring veterans by 43% 
Women in IT   and engineering 
Underrepresented  minorities 
22 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Every day, HP s approximately 56,000 18  employees worldwide shape our future   and bring our vision to life. 
Investing in  Our Human  Capital 
23 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Through our annual Voice Insight Action (VIA)20 survey, we collect  feedback to better understand and improve the employee experience  and continually strengthen our culture. 
In 2019, 94% of employees participated in the VIA survey: 
Employee Development 
Human capital development underpins our efforts create the best  place for employees to grow and develop. 
of employees participated  in 1.6 million hours of  learning and development  activities equivalent to  29 hours per employee. 
of all job vacancies at   HP were filled by our  own employees. 
Employee Experience 
believe that HP values diversity. 
state that their team shared ideas  and learned from failure. 
employees took   advantage of HP s Degree  Assistance Program. 
of senior executive   roles were filled by   internal leaders. 
say they can be themselves at work. 
report that their business unit or global  function actively supports the learning  and development of employees. 
of eligible employees  were provided with   manager input.19 
24 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Global Education 
Enabling quality outcomes for millions. 
Access to a quality education is a fundamental human right. HP s  global education programs and technology solutions emphasize  access for people everywhere with a focus on educational  opportunities for girls, women, and some of the world s most  vulnerable and marginalized communities.  
Since the beginning of 2015, HP has helped to enable better learning  outcomes for 28  million students and adult learners.  
PCs shipped   to schools. 
schools have received  HP Learning Studios. 
learners reached   through HP LIFE  (Learning Initiative   for Entrepreneurs). 
10 million students and teachers worldwide  will be reached through our partnership with  the nonprofit Girl Rising. 
25 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Local Impact 
Creating positive, lasting change  in the communities where we live,  work, and do business. 
At HP, we embrace our role as a purpose-driven company and global  corporate citizen. We contribute skills, technology, partnerships,  and investments to strengthen the resilience and vitality of our local  communities and connect them to greater economic and social  opportunity through technology. 
Corporate giving 
volunteer hours  contributed by our  employees in their   local communities. 
HP Foundation giving 
volunteer hours  contributed by 2,900   employees during  HP s annual 40 Days  of Doing Good. 
Employee giving 
26 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Contributing to   our communities 
Partnering to drive local sustainable impact. 
Selected highlights from 2019 
Worked with recycling  cooperatives to collect about  5 tonnes of electronic waste  per month, providing income  opportunities for 100 people 
400 employees from 10 HP sites  cleaned up 2 tonnes of shoreline  trash, complementing similar   efforts across our global workforce 
Secured backing to expand the  HP-led Digital Schools Awards to  five more European countries. The  program has already benefited  approximately 885,000 young  people across Ireland, Northern  Ireland, and Scotland 
Partnered with UN Women on its  Second Chance Education program,  aiming to reach about 50,000  women via three HP LIFE centers 
Employees built a virtual reality  app and ran a workshop on  inclusiveness and human rights 
Received 18,600  submissions for  our Little Makers Challenge, which  supports technology- and play- based learning for 5 to 12-year-olds 
Two HP Learning Studios  continued to offer education  opportunities in Azraq Refugee  Camp and Amman 
Opened a new HP Modular Tech  Hub in Lombok, Indonesia one  of six opened in Southeast Asia  through December 2019. We plan  to launch 20 hubs across the region  by the end of 2020, with the aim of  reaching a total of 10,000 students. 
United States 
Partnered with the National  Association for Community College  Entrepreneurship to launch the  Student Entrepreneurship Challenge:  Solutions for Sustainable Impact 
New Zealand 
Teamed with three schools and  HP s partner TTGlobal on recycling  initiatives 
South Africa 
HP LIFE Center supported   entrepreneurs in partnership with  Ashoka, the Umlambo Foundation,  and local school principals 
Since the World on Wheels  (WOW) rollout of 43 self- contained, Internet-enabled,  solar-powered mobile learning  labs in rural India during 2017, we  have provided access to WOW  resources to an estimated 3.5  million people across more than  1,400 villages (as of March 2020) 
HP School Cloud pilot reached  6,000  refugees as well as  Ugandan students and teachers by  working in 12 secondary schools  and three career and technical  education centers 
Costa Rica 
About 200 HP volunteers supported  90  learners aged 15-55 to build  their digital skills 
27 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Sustainable Impact  Goals and Progress  Summary 
Products and Services 
Use recycled plastic in HP products 1 
Reduce single-use plastic packaging 1 
Decrease product use GHG emissions intensity 2 
Recycle HP hardware and supplies 2 
Supply Chain 
Eliminate deforestation 3 
Decrease supplier GHG emissions intensity 0 
Help suppliers cut GHG emissions 2 
Operations 
Use 100% renewable electricity 2 
Cut GHG emissions from global operations 3 
Reduce potable water consumption 4 
Planet Progress 
HP is driving progress toward a more sustainable  future. We set bold, long-term goals, and focus our  strategy where we can have the greatest impact. 
See full details on following pages and in the HP 2019 Sustainable Impact Report. 
Enable better learning outcomes 1 
Increase enrollment in HP LIFE 1 
Increase employee volunteerism 1 
Increase HP, HP Foundation, and   employee giving 2 
Develop supply chain factory worker skills   and improve wellbeing 2 
Increase supplier factory participation   in sustainability programs 1 
Maintain participation in annual ethics   and integrity training 4 
NO PROGRESS  TO REPORT GOAL  ACHIEVED 
0    1    2    3    4 
People Progress 
Community Progress 
28 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
SUSTAINABLE IMPACT GOALS AND PROGRESS DETAILS 
Help suppliers cut 2 million tonnes  of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e)  emissions between 2010 and 2025.28 
Eliminate 75% of single-use plastic  packaging by 2025, compared   to 2018.22 
Reduce HP product use GHG  emissions intensity by 30% by 2025,  compared to 2015.23 
Recycle 1.2 million tonnes of hardware  and supplies by 2025, since the  beginning of 2016. 
Reduce first-tier production supplier  and product transportation-related  GHG emissions intensity by 10% by  2025, compared to 2015.27 
Products and Services 
Use 30% postconsumer recycled  content plastic across HP s personal  systems and print product portfolio  by 2025.21 
Supply Chain 
Achieve zero deforestation associated  with HP brand paper and paper-based  product packaging by 2020.25 
           Planet Goal Planet Progress Through 2019 UN SDGs 
Through December 2018 (the most recent year data is available), GHG emissions intensity remained flat, compared to 2015,   when calculated as a three-year rolling average. 
However, yearly GHG emissions intensity values not calculated as a rolling average decreased by 13% during that timeframe.  Since 2010, HP has decreased first-tier production supplier and product transportation-related GHG emissions intensity by  24%. To help reach our goal, we encourage our first-tier production and product transportation suppliers to improve energy  management and efficiency, use renewable energy, and set science-based targets.  
During 2019, we used 25,560 tonnes of postconsumer recycled content plastic in HP personal systems and print products, 9% of  total plastic used. This included 9,650 tonnes in our personal systems products, 6,960 tonnes in our printers, and 8,949 tonnes  in HP ink and toner cartridges. 
As part of our sustainable packaging strategy, we aim to eliminate unnecessary packaging material, space, and hard-to-recycle  materials. We are also working to use materials with lower environmental impact, such as sustainable fiber and recycled plastics. 
Through 2019, we achieved a 5% reduction in single-use plastic product packaging.  
Through the end of 2019, we achieved an 18% decrease in product use GHG emissions intensity.  
GHG emissions from product use equaled 22,500,000 tonnes of CO2e in 2019, down 3% compared to 2018. This decrease was  due to a 5% combined decrease in PC and printer electricity consumption of models shipped in 2019 and a 2% reduction in  emissions associated with print consumables such as paper and cartridges. 
Since 2016, we have met and maintained our zero deforestation goal for HP brand paper (which represents 58% of HP fiber  tonnage), as it is derived entirely from certified and recycled sources.26 In 2019, the amount of Forest Stewardship Council   (FSC )-certified fiber in HP brand paper continued to exceed 55%, by weight. 
Since 2010, suppliers have avoided 1.26 million tonnes of CO2e emissions and saved a cumulative 847 million kWh ( 109 million)   of electricity, including 54 million kWh ( 6.9 million) in 2019. 
We design HP products to use resources efficiently and to last a long time. When our products eventually reach the end of their  service, our robust repair, reuse, and recycling programs help to ensure that products and materials are repurposed, which keeps  them at their highest value state for as long as possible.  
Through 2019, we recycled 528,300 tonnes of hardware and supplies.  
HP provides take-back programs in 76 countries and territories worldwide24 through a global network of reuse and recycling  vendors. These offerings vary by location. 
Paper-based product packaging represented the remaining 42% of HP fiber tonnage. As of April 2020, all packaging from  our first-tier packaging suppliers meets our zero deforestation requirement, and we continue to work with sub-tier packaging  suppliers to meet this requirement by the end of 2020.  
29 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
SUSTAINABLE IMPACT GOALS AND PROGRESS DETAILS 
Develop skills and improve wellbeing  of 500,000 factory workers by 2025,  since the beginning of 2015. 
Double factory participation30 in our  supply chain sustainability programs  by 2025, compared to 2015. 
Maintain greater than 99% completion  rate of annual Integrity at HP (formerly  Standards of Business Conduct)  training among active HP employees  and the Board of Directors. 
Reduce potable water consumption  in global operations by 15% by 2025,  compared to 2015. 
Operations 
Use 60% renewable electricity in  global operations by 2025. In 2019, we procured and generated 240,398 MWh of renewable electricity globally (92% wind, 4% solar, and 4% hydro).  Renewables accounted for 43% of our global electricity consumption, compared to 47% in 2018. Sources of renewable electricity in  2019 included RECs and IRECs (86.0%), direct purchases (12.4%), and renewable energy generated on-site and on-site PPAs (1.6%).  Through these purchases, we once again achieved our objective to use 100% renewable electricity in the United States and helped  to advance the global market for renewables. Use 100% renewable electricity in  global operations by 2035. 
Reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG  emissions from global operations by  60% by 2025, compared to 2015. 
         People Goal People Progress Through 2019 UN SDGs 
           Planet Goal Planet Progress Through 2019 UN SDGs 
In collaboration with NGO partners and other external organizations, we provide programs designed to help suppliers  continually improve along their sustainability journey. During 2019, 11,000 supplier factory workers participated in seven  programs at supplier sites in five countries, bringing the total to 266,400 workers trained since the beginning of 2015, 53% of  the way to our goal.29 
In 2019, the factory participation rate was up 53% compared to our baseline. This increase reflects the launch of a supplemental  program to audit health and safety conditions within various suppliers. We will continue to focus on increasing participation  deepening engagement with suppliers who already have strong management systems and coaching smaller spend and sub-tier  suppliers to improve the maturity of their sustainability management.  
Our annual Integrity at HP training covers key policies, procedures, and high-risk issues that employees might face, and  incorporates scenarios based on actual investigations. Each year, all employees are required to complete this training, including  content on anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, accurate business records, and anti-retaliation. In 2019, 99.4% of employees,  including senior executives, completed Integrity at HP training, as well as all members of our Board of Directors. 
Our global operations produced 215,800 tonnes of Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions during 2019, a 44% decrease compared  to 2015, making progress toward our science-based goal of a 60% reduction by 2025. GHG emissions intensity equaled 3.7  tonnes of CO2e per   million of net revenue in 2019, a 5% reduction from 2018. The main drivers for GHG emissions reduction  included decreases in energy use through efficiency projects and site consolidation, and renewable energy purchases. 
Water consumption associated with our operations makes up 2% of our total water footprint. This is roughly evenly split between  direct consumption (mainly for use in buildings, cooling, landscaping, and production of high-purity water for manufacturing)  and indirect consumption (associated with generation of the electricity we use in our facilities). 
Exceeded water goal six years early. Potable water consumption equaled 2,630,000 cubic meters globally, 18% less than in 2015. 
30 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Learn more in HP s 2019 Sustainable Impact Report. 
SUSTAINABLE IMPACT GOALS AND PROGRESS DETAILS 
Contribute  100 million in HP  Foundation and employee community  giving32 by 2025 (cumulative since the  beginning of 2016). 
Contribute 1.5 million employee  volunteering hours by 2025 (cumulative  since the beginning of 2016). 
Enable better learning outcomes for  100 million people by 2025, since the  beginning of 2015. 
Enroll 1 million HP LIFE users between  2016 and 2025. 
        Community Goal Community Progress Through 2019 UN SDGs 
HP taps into the talents, passions, and entrepreneurial spirit of employees to make a difference in our communities. In 2019,  8,850 employees contributed about 145,000 hours to local volunteer efforts in 51 countries, with a value of  5.43 million.31 HP  employees are granted four hours paid volunteer time per month. In addition, HP s Time Off Community Support Grant allows  employees to apply for a week of paid volunteer time to support more intensive engagements and travel service projects. 
Since 2016, HP employees have contributed a cumulative 429,000 volunteering hours. 
To bridge the  digital divide  and build skills for the future, the HP Foundation provides core business and IT skills training free  of charge for start-ups, students, and small businesses through HP LIFE (Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs). The program  offers global access to 32 free courses in seven languages, with a focus on providing highly accessible and usable content.  Since 2016, 214,000 users have enrolled in HP LIFE courses. 
Giving from the HP Foundation and employees reached  35.17 million through 2019.  
Access to a quality education is a fundamental human right. This belief is at the core of our global education programs and  solutions, which emphasize access for all and deliver educational opportunities to girls, women, and some of the world s most  vulnerable and marginalized communities.  
More than 28.7 million students and adult learners have benefited from HP s education programs and solutions that advance  quality learning and digital literacy, and enable better learning outcomes, since the beginning of 2015.  
31 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Forward-Looking Statements 
This document contains forward-looking  statements based on current expectations  and assumptions that involve risks and  uncertainties. If the risks or uncertainties  ever materialize or the assumptions  prove incorrect, the results of HP Inc.  and its consolidated subsidiaries may  differ materially from those expressed  or implied by such forward-looking  statements and assumptions. 
All statements other than statements  of historical fact are statements that  could be deemed forward-looking  statements, including, but not limited to,  any statements regarding the potential  impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and  the actions by governments, businesses  and individuals in response to the  situation  projections of net revenue,  margins, expenses, effective tax rates,  net earnings, net earnings per share,  cash flows, benefit plan funding,  deferred taxes, share repurchases,  foreign currency exchange rates or other  financial items  any projections of the  amount, timing or impact of cost savings  or restructuring and other charges,  planned structural cost reductions and  productivity initiatives  any statements  of the plans, strategies and objectives  of management for future operations,  including, but not limited to, our  business model and transformation, our  sustainability goals, our go-to-market  strategy, the execution of restructuring  plans and any resulting cost savings, net  revenue or profitability improvements  or other financial impacts  any  statements concerning the expected  development, performance, market  share or competitive performance  relating to products or services  any  statements regarding current or future  macroeconomic trends or events and  the impact of those trends and events  
on HP and its financial performance   any statements regarding pending  investigations, claims or disputes  any  statements of expectation or belief,  including with respect to the timing  and expected benefits of acquisitions  and other business combination and  investment transactions  and any  statements of assumptions underlying  any of the foregoing. Forward-looking  statements can also generally be  identified by words such as  future,    anticipates,   believes,   estimates,    expects,   intends,   plans,   predicts,    projects,   will,   would,   could,   can,    may,  and similar terms. 
Risks, uncertainties and assumptions  include factors relating to the effects  of the COVID-19 pandemic and the  actions by governments, businesses  and individuals in response to the  situation, the effects of which may give  rise to or amplify the risks associated  with many of these factors listed here   HP s ability to execute on its strategic  plan, including the recently announced  initiatives, business model changes  and transformation  execution of  planned structural cost reductions  and productivity initiatives  HP s  ability to complete any contemplated  share repurchases, other capital  return programs or other strategic  transactions  the need to address the  many challenges facing HP s businesses   the competitive pressures faced by  HP s businesses  risks associated with  executing HP s strategy and business  model changes and transformation   successfully innovating, developing  and executing HP s go-to-market  strategy, including online, omnichannel  and contractual sales, in an evolving  distribution and reseller landscape   the development and transition of  
new products and services and the  enhancement of existing products and  services to meet customer needs and  respond to emerging technological  trends  successfully competing and  maintaining the value proposition of  HP s products, including supplies   the need to manage third-party  suppliers, manage HP s global, multi- tier distribution network, limit potential  misuse of pricing programs by HP s  channel partners, adapt to new or  changing marketplaces and effectively  deliver HP s services  challenges to  HP s ability to accurately forecast  inventories, demand and pricing, which  may be due to HP s multi-tiered channel,  sales of HP s products to unauthorized  resellers or unauthorized resale of HP s  products  integration and other risks  associated with business combination  and investment transactions  the  results of the restructuring plans,  including estimates and assumptions  related to the cost (including any  possible disruption of HP s business)  and the anticipated benefits of the  restructuring plans  the protection  of HP s intellectual property assets,  including intellectual property licensed  from third parties  the hiring and  retention of key employees  the impact  of macroeconomic and geopolitical  trends and events  risks associated  with HP s international operations  the  execution and performance of contracts  by HP and its suppliers, customers,  clients and partners  disruptions in  operations from system security risks,  data protection breaches, cyberattacks,  extreme weather conditions, medical  epidemics or pandemics such as the  COVID-19 pandemic, and other natural  or manmade disasters or catastrophic  events  the impact of changes in tax  laws  potential liabilities and costs from  
pending or potential investigations,  claims and disputes  and other risks that  are described in HP s Annual Report  on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  October 31, 2019, HP s Quarterly Report  on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter  ended January 31, 2020, and HP s other  filings with the Securities and Exchange  Commission. 
As in prior periods, the financial  information set forth in this document,  including any tax-related items, reflects  estimates based on information available  at this time. While HP believes these  estimates to be reasonable, these  amounts could differ materially from  reported amounts in HP s Quarterly  Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal  quarters ended April 30, 2020 and July  31, 2020, Annual Report on Form 10-K  for the fiscal year ended October 31,  2020 and HP s other filings with the  Securities and Exchange Commission.  The forward-looking statements in  this document are made as of the date  of this document and HP assumes no  obligation and does not intend to update  these forward-looking statements. 
HP s Investor Relations website at   investor.hp.com contains a significant  amount of information about HP,  including financial and other information  for investors. HP encourages investors  to visit its website from time to time,  as information is updated, and new  information is posted. The content of  HP s website is not incorporated by  reference into this document or in any  other report or document HP files with  the SEC, and any references to HP s  website are intended to be inactive  textual references only. 
32 HP 2019 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
7  Calculated as the percentage of primary  plastic packaging (by weight) reduced per  unit shipped. Excludes secondary and tertiary  packaging components. Includes HP personal  systems and printer hardware packaging.  Does not include packaging for the following:  Graphics Solutions Business (GSB) hardware  
1  In 2019, we tracked more than  1.6  billion in sales wins (total contract value) in  which sustainability criteria were a known  consideration and were supported actively  by HP s Sustainability and Compliance  organization, an estimated 69% increase over  the  900  million reported in 2018. 
3  Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a percentage  of total plastic used in all HP personal systems,  printer hardware, and print cartridges shipped  during the reporting year. Total volume excludes  brand-licensed products and after-market  hardware accessories. Total RCP includes  postconsumer recycled plastic, closed-loop  plastic, and ocean-bound plastic used in HP  products. Personal systems plastic is defined by  EPEAT  eco-label criteria. Subject to relevant  restrictions on the use and distribution of materials  destined for recycling and or recycled feedstocks. 
4  Renewable material, as defined in the Global  Reporting Initiative standards, is  material  derived from plentiful resources that are quickly  replenished by ecological cycles or agricultural  processes, so that the services provided by these  and other linked resources are not endangered  and remain available for the next generation.   This data includes paper, paper-based packaging,  and wood pallets. 
5  This continues a goal from before the  separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on  November 1, 2015, extending the goal to 2025.  Includes data from suppliers associated with HP  Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation business units. 
6  Product use GHG emissions intensity describes  the performance of our portfolio, taking into  account changes to product mix and business  growth. HP Product use GHG emissions intensity  measures per unit GHG emissions during  anticipated product lifetime use. These values  are then weighted by contribution of personal  systems and printing products to overall revenue  in the current year. These emissions represent  more than 99% of HP product units shipped each  year, including notebooks, tablets, desktops,  mobile computing devices, workstations,  displays, and digital signage  HP inkjet, LaserJet,  DesignJet, Indigo, Scitex, and Jet Fusion 3D  printers  and scanners.  
13  All HP brand paper and paper-based product  packaging will be derived from certified and  recycled sources by 2020, with a preference for  virgin fiber from certified sources of the Forest  Stewardship Council  (FSC ). Packaging is the  box that comes with the product and all paper  (including packaging and materials) inside the  box. Forest Stewardship Council  (FSC ) HP  License Code FSC -C017543. www.fsc.org. 
other than PageWide XL and DesignJet printers   3D printing hardware  print supplies  refurbished  products  and accessories such as third-party  options, drop in box, and aftermarket options. 
14  Progress through 2019 includes 77,800  factory workers in 2015, 45,700 in 2016, 119,900  in 2017, 12,000 in 2018, and 11,000 in 2019. 
15  This data does not include participation  in RBA audits.  Participation in our supply  
9  Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a  percentage of total plastic used in all HP  personal systems, printer hardware, and print  cartridges shipped during the reporting year.  Total volume excludes brand-licensed products  and after-market hardware accessories. Total  RCP includes postconsumer recycled plastic,  closed-loop plastic, and ocean-bound plastic  used in HP products. Personal systems plastic is  defined by EPEAT  eco-label criteria. Subject to  relevant restrictions on the use and distribution of  materials destined for recycling and or recycled  feedstocks. 
10  One income opportunity equals the ability  for a person to earn a consistent income for one  month. 
11  This continues a goal from before the  separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on  November 1, 2015, extending the goal to 2025.  Includes data from suppliers associated with HP  Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation business units. 
12  Product use GHG emissions intensity  describes the performance of our portfolio,  taking into account changes to product  mix and business growth. HP Product use  GHG emissions intensity measures per unit  GHG emissions during anticipated product  lifetime use. These values are then weighted by  contribution of personal systems and printing  products to overall revenue in the current year.  These emissions represent more than 99% of  HP product units shipped each year, including  notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing  devices, workstations, displays, and digital  signage  HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo,  Scitex, and Jet Fusion 3D printers  and scanners. 
23  Product use GHG emissions intensity  describes the performance of our portfolio,  taking into account changes to product mix  and business growth. HP Product use GHG  emissions intensity measures per unit GHG  
chain sustainability programs  is quantified by  those programs that go beyond audits to build  supplier capabilities to meet our standards.  This includes deep dive assessment, weekly  reporting of labor metrics, procurement  engagement through our supplier Sustainability  Scorecard, and in-depth coaching and  workshops tailored to supplier risks. 
16  Board of Directors data as of November  1, 2019. Other data as of October 31, 2019.  Employee data refers to regular full time and  part time employees. 
17  Goods and services produced by HP s  diverse suppliers and their supply chains. 
18  As of October 31, 2019. 
19  All employees receive multidimensional  and objective-based performance evaluations.  These interactions are reflected in employees   individual annual development plans, and result  in ongoing development experiences, stretch  projects, and advancement to new roles. 
20  Data refers to the percentage of HP 2019  Voice Insight Action (VIA) employee survey  respondents who strongly agreed or agreed  with each statement. 
21  Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a  percentage of total plastic used in all HP  personal systems, printer hardware, and print  cartridges shipped during the reporting year.  Total volume excludes brand-licensed products  and after-market hardware accessories. Total  RCP includes postconsumer recycled plastic,  closed-loop plastic, and ocean-bound plastic  used in HP products. Personal systems plastic  is defined by EPEAT  eco-label criteria.  Subject to relevant restrictions on the use and  distribution of materials destined for recycling  and or recycled feedstocks. 
22  Calculated as the percentage of primary  plastic packaging (by weight) reduced per  unit shipped. Excludes secondary and tertiary  packaging components. Includes HP personal  systems and printer hardware packaging.  Does not include packaging for the following:  Graphics Solutions Business (GSB) hardware  other than PageWide XL and DesignJet  printers  3D printing hardware  print supplies   refurbished products  and accessories such  as third-party options, drop in box, and  aftermarket options. 
emissions during anticipated product lifetime  use. These values are then weighted by  contribution of personal systems and printing  products to overall revenue in the current year.  These emissions represent more than 99% of  HP product units shipped each year, including  notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing  devices, workstations, displays, and digital  signage  HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo,  Scitex, and Jet Fusion 3D printers  and scanners. 
30  This data does not include participation in  RBA audits.  Participation in our supply chain  sustainability programs  is quantified by those  programs that go beyond audits to build supplier  capabilities to meet our standards. This includes  deep dive assessment, weekly reporting of labor  metrics, procurement engagement. 
24  This is the number of countries or territories  where HP offers hardware recycling and or  HP ink cartridge recycling and or HP toner  cartridge recycling. 
25  Less than 2% of paper by tonnage is not  labeled as certified, but is made from certified  fiber. Recycled fiber for paper products is  included in the FSC-certified value. 
27  Intensity is calculated as the portion of  first-tier production and product transportation  suppliers  reported GHG emissions attributable to  HP divided by HP s annual revenue. This method  normalizes performance based on business  productivity. Intensity is reported as a three-year  rolling average to decrease the impact of variance  year over year and highlight longer-term trends.  Production supplier GHG emissions include  Scope 1 and Scope 2. 
28  This continues a goal from before the  separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on  November 1, 2015, extending the goal to 2025.  Includes data from suppliers associated with HP  Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation business units. 
29  Progress through 2019 includes 77,800  factory workers in 2015, 45,700 in 2016, 119,900  in 2017, 12,000 in 2018, and 11,000 in 2019. 
31  Hourly rate is based on type of volunteering:   195 hour for board, service corp, pro bono,  and skills based   25.43 hour for hands-on  and undetermined. Valuation of non-U.S.  volunteering hours is adjusted using World  Bank data for purchasing power differences  across countries. 
32  Includes valuation of employee volunteer  hours, employee donations, HP Foundation  match, and HP Foundation grants. 