Applied Materials Kalispell, Montana, U.S.A. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018 2 
Across the company we are committed to driving our environmental, social and governance programs forward.   We invite you to learn more about our work in this year s Corporate Social Responsibility Report. 
Gary Dickerson 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
At Applied Materials, we are focusing our resources and capabilities to address the grand challenges of the A.I. era,  working with our customers to build a safer, more equitable and sustainable future. At the heart of Applied s values  is a commitment to operate with responsibility and integrity while making a positive contribution to our industry and  the world around us. From R D to our operations, supply chain to our interaction with the community, we are making  investments and getting results. In 2018, we increased our use of renewable energy, published our first diversity report  and set new goals to increase women s representation in our workforce. We also launched  Generation Girl ,  a new  initiative to help all girls pursue their dreams and reach their potential. 
Message from the CEO  
Today, we are in the early stages of an exciting new era of technology. Artificial Intelligence and Big Data have the  potential to transform entire industries, address some of the world s biggest challenges and create trillions of dollars of  economic value. At the foundation of these seismic changes is semiconductor technology. Realizing the full potential of  A.I. and Big Data will require new types of computing at the edge and in the cloud and order-of-magnitude improvements  in chip performance per watt. 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Vision Our Innovations make possible  the technology shaping the future Mission To lead the world with  materials engineering solutions that enable  customers to transform possibilities into reality 
2018 Key Initiatives and  Accomplishments 
Environment, Health and Safety: 
Diversity and Inclusion: 
Community Giving: 
  Increased our global facilities  and operations  use of renewable  energy from 18% to 31% as a percentage of overall energy used  
  Improved our global diversion rate for non-hazardous waste by   6 points, for a total of 81% 
  Set a goal to reduce our GHG emissions by 1% in 2019, using   2018 as a baseline 
  Released our key diversity data for the first time 
  40% of Applied s 2018 U.S. New College Graduate class were  women, up from 36% in 2017   
  Set a goal to increase women s representation in the U.S. workforce  to 21% by 2021   
  Donated  10.9 million through corporate contributions and   the Applied Materials Foundation  
  Established  Generation Girl,  a new Foundation initiative to help  all girls pursue their dreams and reach their potential, regardless of  race or income level 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018 3 
  7 Stakeholder Engagement 
 4 About Applied Materials 
  6 Corporate Governance 
Table of Contents  
 2 Message from the CEO 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
  9 Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 
  17 Supply Chain 
 19 People and Workplace 
  20 Training and Development 
  22 Diversity and Inclusion  
  28 Ethics and Compliance 
  30 Human Rights 
 31 Society 
  32 Community 
  37 Public Policy 
 39 Performance Indicators 
 42 Resources and References 
    Legal Disclosure  
 8 Sustainability 
About this Report 
First issued in 2007, the Applied Materials Corporate Social Responsibility  Report is the annual sustainability report for Applied Materials, Inc. and its  subsidiaries (collectively referred to as  Applied Materials,   Applied  or   the company ). We have not made any changes to our reporting methods  for 2018. This report references the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  Standard Reporting Guidelines at the Core level, and it is designed in all  aspects to meet the needs of Applied s stakeholders. 
Except where indicated, the report reflects Applied s global operations for  fiscal year 2018, beginning October 30, 2017 and ending October 28, 2018.  Applied s global operational footprint fluctuates with business acquisitions  and divestitures, as well as the occasional expansion, consolidation and  relocation of its operations. In 2018, we opened three new offices but made  no material acquisitions or changes to our operations. Additional details on  the company s operations and activities in specific areas are included in the  Performance Indicators section at the end of this report. 
 2.0 billion R D   investment 
Headquartered  in California s  Silicon Valley 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
FY2018 COMPANY OVERVIEW For fiscal year ended October 28, 2018 
AMAT stock listing  on NASDAQ 
 10.9 million  in charitable  contributions 
 17.3 billion  revenue 
 21,000 employees   93 locations in  17 countries 
 12,500  patents 
About Applied Materials  
Leading the Way  
Applied Materials is the leader in materials engineering solutions used to produce virtually  every new chip and advanced display in the world. Our expertise in modifying materials at  atomic levels and on an industrial scale enables customers to transform possibilities into  reality. We are committed to being the innovation leader that pushes the boundaries of  science, technology and engineering to solve the world s toughest materials engineering  challenges. 
Over the last 50 years, our innovations have fundamentally changed how the world works  and the way people interact with each other through technology. With  2 billion invested  annually, and thirty percent of our team dedicated to research and development (R D,) our  investments outpace others  and set the industry standard. 
We align who we are and what we stand for as a company with what matters to our  employees and our communities. Our purpose drives everything we do. It is shaped by  our values and reflected in our actions. From the well-being of our employees and their  communities, to our sustainable business practices and corporate governance, we are focused  on building a better future. 
Applied Materials is dedicated to conducting our business in an environmentally and socially  responsible way, taking action to protect the health and safety of workers, customers and  neighboring communities. We are steadfast in attracting, developing and retaining a global  workforce and respecting the local cultures of the regions where we do business. 
At Applied Materials, our innovations make possible the technology shaping the future. 
Consolidated financial statements for the company and a complete list of  subsidiaries are set forth in our fiscal 2018 Form 10-K, available online. i 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018 4 
Recognition as a Responsible   Corporate Citizen  
Applied Materials is consistently recognized by a wide range of reputable  organizations and publications for our achievements and contributions to  the technology sector. Here is a selection of the corporate responsibility  awards and positive recognition we received in 2018. 
   Barron s the World s Best CEOs 
   Computerworld 100 Best Places to Work in IT 
   Corporate Knights Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations  
   Ethisphere Institute World s Most Ethical Companies  
   Forbes Top 100 Digital Companies 
   Fortune World s Most Admired Companies 
   Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index 
   Newsweek Top 500 Green Companies in America 
   Thomson Reuters The Top 100 Global Technology Leaders 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Our Technology and Innovation Leadership 
In 2018, we achieved another significant  milestone: the 20th anniversary of the Applied  Producer  platform the industry s first  twin-chamber architecture with single-wafer  processing capability and the shipment of the  5,000th system.  Since the company launched  the Producer platform on July 1, 1998, we have  developed more than 20 Producer-family  products spanning 10 technology nodes. Producer  continues to be the industry s most flexible multi- generation platform used to manufacture virtually  every kind of chip design made today. 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018 5 
Corporate  Governance  
We are committed to effective corporate  governance that strengthens the accountability  of the Board of Directors and management,  and promotes the long-term interests of our  shareholders.  
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Risks identified under the ERM program are reported to the full Board,  which has oversight responsibility, with a focus on the most significant  risks facing the company, including strategic, operational, financial,  legal and compliance risks. Oversight responsibility for a particular risk  may fall within an area of responsibility and expertise of one of   the Board Committees.  
The Board of Directors, acting directly and through its committees, is  responsible for the oversight of risk management across our business.  Our management is responsible for identifying, assessing, mitigating  and managing risks related to our strategies and objectives. We have  implemented an ERM (Enterprise Risk Management) program  overseen by the Board s Audit Committee that provides   an enterprise-wide perspective on our risks.  
Board Responsibilities and Risk  Oversight 
Board Practices and Composition 
The Board of Directors is composed of highly-engaged and qualified directors who have a wide variety of relevant skills,  professional experience and background. They collectively bring to our Board diverse viewpoints and perspectives to  provide independent oversight of company strategy, risk management and sustainability practices, among other matters. 
Corporate Governance Guidelines 
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines establish the governance  framework within which the Board conducts its business and fulfills its  responsibilities. The Board has delegated certain oversight functions to  Board Committees, which meet regularly and report back to the Board.  The scope and responsibilities of each Committee are documented in  written charters approved by the Board. These guidelines and other  governance materials are available on our website. 
The Audit Committee oversees financial, regulatory, and compliance  risks as well as risks related to cybersecurity and EHS (Environmental,  Health and Safety) matters, in addition to the ERM program. The Audit  Committee regularly reviews risk-monitoring and mitigation efforts and  findings with management, the head of internal audit and independent  accountants, when appropriate. 
The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee oversees risks  related to corporate governance matters, including director independence,  Board member qualifications and Board composition, as well as the overall  effectiveness, integrity and accountability of the Board.  
In its consideration of potential director candidates, the Governance  and Nominating Committee reviews the company s short- and  long-term strategies and interests to determine the current and  future skills and experiences the Board will need in exercising its  risk management function. It also factors anticipated retirements  into planning for the succession of directors as well as Board and  Committee Chairs to maintain the requisite expertise for a Board   of Directors that is best in class. 
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee oversees risks  associated with our organizational talent and culture, compensation  policies and practices, and management succession. It reviews matters  relating to human capital management, including corporate culture  and diversity and inclusion initiatives. The Human Resources and  Compensation Committee also reviews our programs that incentivize  high performance and foster employee development and retention,   as well as risks associated with those programs and policies. 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018 6 
Board Diversity 
Our Board regularly evaluates Board composition  to ensure that its members collectively have  the necessary skills and experience to match  our evolving business and strategic needs.  Because diverse backgrounds, experiences  and perspectives foster thoughtful and robust  discussion and decision-making, our Board  places great value on a diversity of backgrounds,  skills and viewpoints, gender and ethnicity  among the directors when considering potential  director candidates and nominees, and as part  of succession planning. Thirty percent of the  directors on our Board are female or minorities. 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Applied Materials Board of Directors 
Stakeholder Engagement 
Robust stakeholder engagement enables us to understand and respond to our shareholders  concerns and ideas on how  we improve our support and strengthen our partnerships with them. We review, analyze and incorporate their feedback  into our strategic business planning, processes and practices. We regularly engage with our primary stakeholders listed  below and communicate through a variety of formats.  
We directly engage our nearly 21,000 employees in 93 locations  worldwide through meetings, surveys, training and initiatives,  and provide an Ethics and Compliance hotline to communicate  transparently, build trust and create a safe and valued workplace.  
We maintain close contact with our global customers to understand  their needs and expectations, and receive feedback regarding our  business and products through ongoing meetings, technical events,  trainings and other means. We also focus on creating energy efficient  products to achieve customers  sustainability goals. 
We regularly engage with our direct suppliers to encourage and  monitor their sustainable business practices and responsible sourcing  of materials used to make our products. We require our suppliers to  comply with applicable laws (regarding use of child labor, human rights,  safety, etc.), the Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct, our  Standards of Business Conduct and industry standards.  
We engage with and solicit feedback from investors on a wide range  of issues, including our business performance, strategy, corporate  governance, sustainability and human capital management practices  through meetings, investor events and conference calls. 
Communities 
We support the communities in which we operate through  contributions from the Applied Materials Foundation, community  investment and outreach programs, and volunteerism.  
Government and Industry  Associations 
We engage the U.S. and other governments, as well as various  businesses and academic organizations where we operate. We stay  abreast of emerging trends in regulatory and other political and  legislative matters through meetings, the Applied Materials Political  Action Committee, memberships and sponsorships.  
A full description of Board and corporate governance  practices is available in our 2019 Proxy Statement. i 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018 7 
Sustainability  
We are committed to protecting the health and safety of  our workers, customers and neighboring communities.  We are equally dedicated to employing environmentally  and socially responsible business practices throughout  our operations and supporting our customers in the  reduction of their environmental footprints. 
IN THIS SECTION Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Supply Chain 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018 8 
Austin, Texas 
Environmental, Health and Safety EHS Policy and Management Approach 
At Applied, we are committed to protecting the health and safety of our workers, customers and  neighboring communities. 
We are equally dedicated to employing environmentally and socially responsible business practices  throughout our operations and supporting our customers in the reduction of their environmental  footprints. We encourage our suppliers to reduce the environmental impacts associated with their  operations, leveraging our participation as a member of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA).  
Our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) organization is responsible for developing procedures and  policies that enable our management team to maintain a safe and healthy workplace and reduce our  operations  environmental impacts. The Head of EHS reports to the Board of Directors on a quarterly  basis, and delivers a more in-depth environmental and sustainability update to the Audit Committee  once a year. 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Applied Materials EHS Policy 
EHS implements programs, with management s support, based on   five guiding principles that shape how we conduct business at Applied: 
We strive to continuously improve our EHS programs, which are validated  under ISO certifications and by other credible entities.  
Ensuring Safe Work Environments  Establishing EHS policies and procedures, evaluating chemicals against  stringent safety parameters and employing appropriate engineering  controls when warranted  
Maximizing Energy Efficiency and Reducing Greenhouse Gas  Emissions  Reducing our impact on the environment by conserving energy  throughout our operations and supporting renewable energy sources 
Designing for the Environment  Designing safe, long-lasting, reusable or recyclable products to  minimize the use of natural resources and allow our customers to  create sustainable products 
Reducing Waste  Reducing product and packaging waste through material minimization,  reuse and recycling 
Conserving Natural Resources  Minimizing our resource consumption by using recycled materials and  process water 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     EHS 9 
2018 EHS Highlights 
We were able to make measurable progress  toward our ongoing goal of minimizing the  environmental impact of our operations, even  with a jump in revenue of more than 15%.   Here s how: 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Global facilities  and operations   utilization of renewable energy  increased from 18% to 31%  
Recycling and reclamation processes   for non-hazardous waste improved by   6 points, reaching a global diversion   rate of 81% 
Overall water consumption increased  only 6% through our continuous efforts 
Set a goal to reduce our GHG emissions  by 1% in 2019, using 2018 as a baseline 
Ensuring Safe Work Environments 
We have established EHS policies to protect our employees, comply with or exceed all regulatory requirements, prevent  pollution and show continuous improvement in the EHS performance of our operations, processes and products. All executives,  managers and employees are expected to support and take responsibility for the implementation of these EHS policies. 
At Applied, we care about the health and safety of our workforce, customers, suppliers and the communities in which  we live. From our commitment to using the safest materials possible to inviting input from interested parties and  stakeholders, we take EHS performance seriously.  
EHS Staffing 
We have an EHS staff deployed globally that supports all of our  operations, including manufacturing, R D, engineering, and at  customer sites. The EHS department also manages product safety,  with product safety engineers who are dedicated to supporting product  development, release and the installed base.  
EHS Management System 
Our EHS Management System (EHSMS) is designed to integrate  sound EHS performance across all business operations and locations  to minimize potential environmental and safety risks. Our EHSMS  incorporates formal risk assessments and mitigation practices that  include safety self-inspections, walkthrough assessments, and a formal  chemical evaluation and authorization process. The adequacy and  effectiveness of these programs are assessed regularly through internal  and external third-party audits of our certified manufacturing sites.  
While most of the chemicals we use are limited to applications  employed in our R D functions, we do track product content to ensure  we comply with REACH, RoHS and other applicable regulations. 
Safety Performance 
Our global recordable injury rate was 0.52 in FY2018. While this  number exceeded our target of 0.44, it was 50 percent below the  industry rate of 1.1. We strive for continuous improvement in safety  performance, which is why we have integrated key safety programs   that align with our operations and minimize risks of injuries worldwide. 
In 2018, Applied received no fines or notices of violations involving our  safety programs, product operation, or health and safety performance  worldwide. 
Product Safety and Labeling  
Our formal Product Environmental, Health and Safety (Product EHS)  policies and programs ensure that our products are designed, labeled  and tested for safe use by our customers. Products are subject to third- party safety assessments based on applicable industry and regulatory  EHS standards.  
Our products comply with applicable manufacturing and labeling  requirements, including CE Marking ( Conformit  Europ ene,  or   European Conformity  marking) for products sold within the European  Union. 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     EHS 10 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     EHS 11 
Climate change affects us all. At Applied Materials, we recognize that addressing climate change requires building   a resilient supply chain and business, as well as taking local, regional and international action to reduce greenhouse   gas (GHG) emissions.  
Maximizing Energy Efficiency and Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
We are proud of our efforts to reduce GHG emissions in our operations  and to help our customers minimize their impacts by providing the  most resource efficient products and services possible. Below are the  elements of our climate change management approach: 
  Implementing energy conservation measures across our facilities 
  Conducting energy audits and monitoring energy consumption  
  Purchasing renewable energy and developing self-generation  capacity (e.g. photovoltaic energy) 
  Enhancing our product offerings to enable customers to reduce  their GHG emissions 
  Encouraging and enabling employees and business partners to  reduce GHG emissions associated with their jobs and commutes 
  Tracking and publicly disclosing our efforts and Scope 1 (direct  emissions), Scope 2 (electricity consumption) and Scope 3 (other  relevant indirect emissions air travel) GHG emissions annually  through Carbon Disclosure Project reporting 
  Advocating for local, national and international policies that help  reduce GHGs   
Continuing our legacy of good environmental  stewardship, Applied Materials received no  environmental fines or sanctions in 2018 ! 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Energy Conservation 
We achieved a record year in 2018, marked by more than 15 percent  revenue growth. Throughout the year we successfully controlled our  overall energy consumption, increasing usage by approximately 10  percent compared to 2017 levels. We accomplished this through a  variety of efforts, including routine monitoring of our energy use by our  energy manager, conducting energy audits, optimizing the temperature  of water used in our operations, and making sure that any new  equipment was as energy efficient as possible. 
Renewable Energy 
As an integral part of our clean energy initiatives, we are minimizing our  carbon footprint through onsite renewable energy production. Our solar  panel arrays at our facilities located in Sunnyvale, California  Singapore   Xi an, China  and Austin, Texas generated a total of 3.4 GWh (Gigawatt  hours). Green energy purchases met 100 percent of the power demand  for our two Santa Clara, California campuses, and our conversion  to Silicon Valley Clean Energy allowed for our use of 99.99 percent  CO2e-free power and 50 percent renewable power at our large R D  center in Sunnyvale. As a result of these efforts, our global facilities  and  operations  utilization of renewable energy increased from 18 percent to  31 percent. 
In 2018, we set a goal to reduce our GHG emissions by one percent  in 2019, using 2018 as a baseline. We expect to report on the GHG  reduction in the 2019 report. 
Our onsite green power  generation produced  3.5 Gigawatt hours  equivalent to the energy  needed to power 2.3  million homes per year 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     EHS 12 
GHG Efficient Products 
Applied offers emissions measurement systems,  pollution abatement equipment and clean tech  consulting services to help our customers reduce  their GHG emissions.  
While the electronics manufacturers industry  (including semiconductor) is a minor producer  of GHG emissions, contributing less than 0.2  percent of the total GHG emissions in the U.S., we  are committed to reducing the GHG emissions  produced by our operations and those of our  customers. To this end, we continuously seek  to identify and pursue opportunities to improve  our products. When we succeed, we help our  customers lower the temperature and quantity of  water they use as well as reduce other forms of  energy demand in their operations and product  use. The Applied iSystem controller is one  example of how our products can help minimize  our customers  energy and resource consumption  in their semiconductor manufacturing.  
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Applied iSystem controller 
A new predictive control technology a  sleep mode based on SEMI1 standard E175  requirements was developed in FY18. Internal  studies have shown that, in practice, sleep mode  could double the energy and resource savings  available with idle mode. More information about  Applied iSystem is available on our website.  
Advantages of Integrated SubFab  Components 
In today s semiconductor fab, the focus on saving  energy and resources has shifted from facility  operations to the subfab, which contains support  equipment (pumps, abatement systems, etc.)  that can consume more energy than any other  fab equipment component. To reduce energy  consumption and conserve natural resources,  we offer the Applied iSystem controller, which  incorporates a hot standby idle mode in subfab  control systems. The Applied iSystem is the  industry s only subfab solution that optimizes  subfab resource consumption without the  added risk to process or throughput. While  monitoring tool operation, the Applied iSystem  controller collects valuable data that can be used  to generate resource consumption and GHG  emissions reports, among other environmental  factors. More than 3,000 pieces of subfab  equipment in customer fabs are connected  to the Applied iSystem and predecessor  control systems, thereby supporting customer  sustainability initiatives. 
1 The SEMI International Standards Program is one of the  key services offered by Semiconductor Equipment and  Materials International (SEMI). The program operates as  a neutral forum for the exchange of information among  suppliers and users, resulting in the production of timely  and technically accurate specifications and other standards  of economic importance to the industry.  
Employee Eco Programs To complement our efforts to reduce Applied s operational GHG emissions,  we offer carpools, ride-matching, vanpool and other programs and services to  help our employees reduce their personal GHG emissions in California, Texas,  Massachusetts and Montana. Similar programs are routinely being assessed for  implementation at other locations. 
WORLDWIDE NORTH AMERICA CALIFORNIA 
Nearly 500 employees  telecommuting in our Applied  Anywhere Program 
Electric vehicle (EV) charging  stations at our campuses  
On-campus, app based gas  delivery through Booster  (Silicon Valley)  
18 Telepresence capability for  virtual meetings across the  company 
Preferred parking for carpool  and hybrid electric vehicles  
The option of a subsidized,  roundtrip, door-to-door  carpool  
Reducing business travel to  lower Scope 3 GHG emissions 
Bike to Work Days: Employees  leave their cars at home and  instead, bike to work. 
Public and alternative  transportation incentives    
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     EHS 13 
Tracking and Reporting GHG Emissions 
Since 2006, we have participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project  (CDP), through which we report our carbon risks and emissions  annually. Our disclosures are available on the CDP website. 
In 2018, our overall GHG emissions increased approximately   9 percent below the rate of increase in our business volumes,  manufacturing and employee growth. Scope 1 and 2 emissions  decreased approximately 0.2 percent compared to 2017 levels.   Our Scope 3 emissions (indirect releases) increased in 2018  compared to 2017 due to air travel necessary to support rapid  business growth in Asian markets. Our GHG emissions data is  available in the Performance Indicators section of this report. 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
We partner with SEMI to advocate on industry- related concerns or issues, including reductions in  the use of perfluorocarbons ( PFCs ), chemicals  that have a high impact on climate change  
Designing for the Environment and Sustainable Products  
We create durable, long-lasting products that can be refurbished or recycled, minimizing the use of natural resources and  enabling our customers to create sustainable products. In addition, we partner with our customers to identify and pursue  opportunities to lower the impact of our products through energy or water consumption optimization as well as smart  control of the water temperature and flow that their operations require.  
Over the last several years, our Eco-Efficiency Center of Excellence team and all of our business units have concentrated  on improving the energy efficiency of our products. Their efforts have helped our customers achieve their energy  efficiency goals. Here are a few examples of product features that came out of our team s effort to help key customers to  reduce energy consumption:  
Sharing one heat exchanger per  system reduces heat exchanger  energy consumption and  consumables by two thirds per  system 
We have a variety of projects in the pipeline, which will expand  our sustainable product solution offerings even further 
Next generation cryo pumps  eliminate one compressor and  reduce up to 40 percent of their  power consumption over the  previous model 
Available on multiple products,  our energy efficient iPUP2  system (an integrated point- of-use pump) can save over  7,000 kWh (kilowatt hours)  per year per system Optimized  design reduces tool exhaust  requirements and lowers tool  energy consumption 
Installed Applied iSystem  controllers help to reduce  pump and abatement energy  consumption during both idle  and sleep mode 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     EHS 14 
Waste Management 
Our offices, campuses and manufacturing facilities around the  world continually update their recycling programs to decrease  non-hazardous waste generation and increase diversion rates.   We manage waste in the following ways: 
We supplement these programs with an ongoing effort to move  to reusable and recyclable packaging whenever possible. These  recycling programs improved our waste diversion rate from 75  percent in 2017 to 81 percent in 2018. The overall volume of material  destined for landfill decreased by more than two tons in 2018, a  result of continual efforts to reduce non-recyclable landfill-bound  wastes, as previously discussed.  By integrating the reduction,  reuse or recycling of materials into the operational cadence of our  locations, continuing to work with our employees and manufacturing  partners, and encouraging manufacturing locations to establish  individual waste management targets, we reduced our solid waste.  As a stakeholder within the communities in which Applied operates,  we recognize that managing our waste is not only good for the  environment, it also makes sound business sense. 
  Source separation by providing appropriately-marked  containers for employees to separate recyclable materials 
  Composting options for food waste and offering compostable  service wares  
  Reducing paper waste by implementing print on demand and  encouraging the use of online documentation 
  Packaging re-designs to reduce the overall packaging content  for shipping spare parts and products 
  Reusing or repurposing materials identified to have continued  life or valuable use elsewhere in the business 
  Capturing wood waste for recycling when crating materials  are no longer useable 
  Collection and recycling of the various metal and electronic  waste streams  
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Focus on Reuse or Recycling 
In response to employee interest and to help raise awareness of  sustainability practices, we facilitated the collection, recycling and  reuse of materials in 2018 all in partnership with local community  organizations. Our Diagnostics and Control group in Israel re-purposed  gently-used toys and clothes to support nonprofit agencies. Our team  in Malta, New York expanded their waste diversion efforts to include  an electronics recycling drive as well as a bottle and can collection to  benefit a youth service organization. 
During Applied s annual EarthWorks environmental campaign, Santa  Clara employees teamed up with an arts-education nonprofit to learn  about the impact of plastic on the oceans while creating art from  recycled objects. Employees in Israel welcomed the addition of more  than 100 new recycling containers including units dedicated to  electronics recycling to their facilities. 
As a corporation and through the initiative of passionate employees,   we are committed to continuing our focus on reuse and recycling. 
Diversion rate up 6 points 
Landfill (non-hazardous) 81% 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     EHS 15 
Conserving Natural Resources Product Packaging 
Our products require proper protection during transport because  they are sensitive to environmental elements, improper handling and  contact with chemicals. Despite these challenges, we are committed to  shipping sustainably. Applied created a packaging technology team and  hired an external packaging expert to improve our product packaging  by using more sustainable and recyclable materials and reducing the  amount of the materials through the use of specially engineered boxes,  crates, shipping containers and transport carriers. Packaging that has  exhausted its usefulness is recycled through qualified local vendors. In  2018, packaging materials accounted for roughly 70 percent of our total  recyclables. Here are some of the achievements we have made to date: 
  Prohibited and phased out the use of the following materials: 
  Designated heat treatment as the only option for treating wood to  meet international requirements Applied does not allow methyl  bromide fumigation 
  Implemented a reusable transit case program for many repairable  parts and especially those that are in contract with customers  
  Developed a reuse recycle refurbish program for wooden crates 
  Used a global crating supplier that is fully solar-powered 
  Undertook a dynamic measurement study to understand what  hazards our tools and parts experience throughout shipping to  optimize the protective packaging system 
       Bleached corrugated must use Kraft (brown unbleached) 
       EPS (expanded poly styrene Styrofoam) 
       Foam-in-place (Instapack) 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Our Texas water reclamation project has  recycled 5.7M gallons of water equivalent  to 8.6 Olympic-size swimming pools 
Water is an essential natural resource, and its use should be managed  responsibly. Although our operations are not particularly water-intensive,  we recycle water whenever possible and help our customers do the same.  
Applied obtains most of its water from municipal water company  providers, with the exception of our Kalispell, Montana site, which  supplements its water needs using an on-site well.  Our remaining  facilities do not directly withdraw water from sources such as wells,  lakes or rivers. No native water sources are affected by withdrawal of  water reclamation processes or drainage. 
In 2018, we were able to hold the overall increase in water consumption  to only 6 percent through water conservation and recycling efforts.  These efforts included:  
We recognize our role in conserving the quality of the bodies of  water from which municipalities source water and into which they  may eventually discharge treated waste water. Our water usage and  discharges at our facilities are carefully monitored to confirm that they  comply with local laws and regulations. Responsible water use includes  effective waste water management. In 2018, no sites were cited for  being out of compliance with water management regulations. 
  Reclaiming 5.7M gallons of water at our Austin, Texas facility  through our industrial waste neutralization and deionized (DI)  water recycling systems 
  Implementing water efficiency projects, tool software changes  (that reduce water flows during idle processing time), lab  consolidation and drought tolerant landscaping at our campuses  in Sunnyvale, California  
  Recycling and reusing process water, blowdown from chillers  and other water used in our manufacturing and laboratory  operations for chilling or removing waste heat from various  processes wherever possible  
  Continuing smart irrigation controls and reduced watering days at  our Austin, Texas campus, resulting in an 80 percent reduction of  annual irrigation from peak usage in 2012 
Eliminating Single-Use Packaging As part of our repair service, Applied parts travel  to and from over 20 customers in Taiwan, China,  Singapore, Japan and Korea. In the past, we would  have used single-use packages to transport  individual parts to warehouses and cleaning  vendors for servicing or repair. 
In 2018, we introduced 200 reusable packaging  designs that can carry up to six parts each,  replacing over 1,000 different single-use designs. 
Each design can make between 30 and 50 trips  and completely eliminate the need for single-use  secondary packaging. 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     EHS 16 
Updated ISO OHSAS Certifications We continue to recertify our operations to International Organization for  Standardization (ISO) 14001:2015 standard for environmental management systems,  and to the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001:2007  standard for safety management systems. These two systems make up Applied s  environmental, health and safety management system (EHSMS). Through our  EHSMS, each one of our sites remains aligned with the EHS practices of our formally  certified locations. 
In 2018, our Gloucester, Massachusetts and Kalispell, Montana manufacturing sites joined Applied s  growing list of ISO OHSAS certified facilities. Our future certifications roadmap includes registration  of a newly-built manufacturing facility located in Taiwan and South Korea and expanding the OHSAS  certifications to Italy and Taiwan.  
More information on our ISO OHSAS Certifications is available through our website. 
Gloucester, Massachusetts Facility Kalispell, Montana Facility 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
    ISO 14001:2015  OHSAS 18001  Country   Facility Location  Manufacturing Sites  Manufacturing Sites 
US   Austin, Texas        
US   Santa Clara, California           (New product integration) 
US   Gloucester, Massachusetts    2018    2018 
US   Kalispell, Montana        2018 
Germany   Alzenau       
Germany   Heimstetten       
Israel   Rehovot       
Singapore   Singapore       
South Korea   Pyeongtaek, Gyeonggi-do     2019 
Italy   Treviso     2020 
Taiwan   Tainan     2020 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Supply Chain 17 
Supply Chain 
Applied s products are complex in nature and may consist of thousands of parts sourced from a multitude of suppliers.  Despite the challenges this complexity creates, we are committed to sourcing the materials we use to make our products  from suppliers who employ principled business practices and are committed to responsible supply chains.  
The Global Supply Chain Organization (GSC) manages supplier relationships, develops supply chain capability and  requires our suppliers to operate in an ethical, responsible and legal manner.  
Ensuring Ethical Conduct   and Legal Compliance  
Applied has suppliers in common with other members of our industry.  To ease the burden placed on suppliers as well as to set consistent  expectations, we require the top 80 percent of our direct suppliers  (by spend) to adhere to industry-wide doctrines and initiatives. These  include the RBA (Responsible Business Alliance) Code of Conduct,  SEMI guidelines and Applied s Standards of Business Conduct (SBC),  a global code that reflects our organizational values and our focus on  ethical practices. These requirements are incorporated into our Global  Supplier Agreement, which sets forth the contractual requirements to  which our strategic suppliers must adhere.  
Our top suppliers by spend must also complete yearly self-assessments  to measure their compliance with the RBA Code of Conduct. The  self-assessments are managed by a third party who evaluates each  supplier s response for completeness and works with Applied s team to  identify any high-risk suppliers. As an RBA member, Applied is required  to select 25 percent of the suppliers identified as high-risk to undergo  an audit (or provide a current audit report) through RBA s Validated  Assessment Program (VAP). A typical VAP audit is conducted on site  by independent auditors and includes a thorough document review,  interviews with management and employees, and a visual site survey  over the course of two to five days.  
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
If any issues of non-compliance are identified during the audit, the  supplier is expected to implement an appropriate corrective action  plan. A supplier who has undergone an audit in the past three years,  in conformance with RBA s audit program, would not be required to  undergo such an audit.  
Applied requires that all of our suppliers observe applicable laws and  regulations wherever they operate.  
Prohibiting Child, Forced   and Bonded Labor  
Applied is unequivocally opposed to slavery and human trafficking.  We prohibit the use of child labor and forced, bonded, or indentured  labor practices in our operations and supply chains. This prohibition  is included in the RBA Code of Conduct and our SBC as well as in our  Human Resources Policy.  
In 2018, Applied s operations and the operations of our suppliers were  deemed low risk for the use of child labor or forced and bonded labor.  
More information about our Standards of  Business Conduct is available in the Ethics and  Compliance section of this report. i 
Partnering with a Customer    A Deep Dive to Assess Forced Labor  and Bonded Labor  We are committed to collaborating with our suppliers and  customers to enhance environmental, social and governance  (ESG) programs within our supply chain and to heighten  business processes and sustainability practices. As an  example, we have been working with one of our customers  to conduct a multi-step assessment of Forced Labor and  Bonded Labor (FLBL) risks in the supply chain. This FLBL  project dives deeply into the supply chains of three of our  Asia-based suppliers to assess their foreign or migrant  worker hiring practices by taking the following steps: 
In addition to the ongoing assessment, the project team will  also provide structured, clear training to the relevant hiring  agents on the expectations of the RBA Code of Conduct.  
We expect to complete the project by 2020.  
  Performing a complete evaluation of each supplier s  policies and procedures around hiring foreign or  migrant workers  
  Mapping the journeys of the foreign or migrant workers 
  Assessing any hiring practice risks revealed by the  mapped journeys  
  Evaluating the development and execution of a  corrective action plan to address any and all gaps  identified in the previous steps of the project, as  appropriate 
FY2018 Supplier Spend by Region 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Conflict Minerals 
Our products and some of their related spare parts contain tin,  tantalum, tungsten or gold commonly referred to as  conflict  minerals.    
Although we neither directly purchase these minerals nor have any  direct relationship with mines, smelters or refiners that process  these minerals, we actively support the efforts of the Responsible  Minerals Initiative (RMI) and have since its inception. The RMI is an  industry-wide effort to understand and determine how best to mitigate  the complex issue of conflict minerals. 
We support the RMI s program by conducting due diligence of our  suppliers and reasonable inquiries into country of origin for their  materials that align with guidelines established by the Organization  for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the RBA.  Specifically, we require the top 80 percent of our direct suppliers by  spend to complete the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template, a tool  developed by RMI to help disclose information about conflict minerals  in a supplier s products, including names and locations of smelters  or refiners found to process conflict minerals. Applied compares any  identified smelters and refiners against a list of smelters that conform  to or are active in RMI s Responsible Minerals Assurance Process,  which uses independent third-party audits to identify smelters with  systems in place to ensure they procure responsibly sourced minerals.  
More information on our conflict minerals due diligence program  is available through our website and in our most recent Conflict  Minerals Report, which was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange  Commission on May 29, 2019.  
It s worth noting that more recently, cobalt has been linked to the  use of child labor and other human rights abuses. Since cobalt is not  commonly used to produce our products, we have not integrated cobalt  into our conflict minerals due diligence program.  
Supplier Diversity 
We value global diversity throughout our organization and supply chain.  Applied is committed to selecting diverse suppliers whose products  and services meet our high standards and enable us to meet customer  requirements. In 2017, we established a Supplier Diversity program  to enhance the role diversity plays in our supplier selection process.  In 2018, we expanded the program to other geographic areas where  we operate within the U.S., extending our ability to actively support  suppliers at a local level through our Supplier Diversity initiatives.  
For example, we engaged with government in Austin, Texas and  Albany, New York to connect our supplier diversity initiatives with  their economic development efforts.  We also shared our experience  in panel discussions with industry leaders at the SEMICON West  2018 conference, to help develop industry-wide standards for supplier  diversity.  
The Supplier Diversity program is currently focused on U.S. suppliers,  but we plan to expand our program globally. 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Supply Chain 18 
People and  Workplace  
Our commitment to innovation begins with  our commitment to creating an environment in  which our employees can do their best work. Our  people succeed because they keep current with  new technologies and skill sets. We believe in  attracting, developing and retaining a world-class  global workforce. We invest in our employees  by providing quality training and educational  opportunities  promoting diversity and inclusion   and upholding a high standard of ethics and  respect for human rights. 
IN THIS SECTION Training and Development Diversity and Inclusion Ethics and Compliance Human Rights 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018 19 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Training and Development 20 
Training and Development 
We foster personal and professional development for our workforce through a vast array of onsite resources and online  platforms that help employees advance and manage every stage of their careers.  
We achieve our employee development goals by providing multi- faceted training and certification programs through our Applied  Global University (AGU). AGU offers a broad range of educational  opportunities to all personnel worldwide, including business, technical  and employee development courses in a variety of languages and  formats. Our employees can earn competency certifications and  receive technical training in areas such as engineering, career planning,  safety and product development.  
Applied Materials Places the Highest  Priority on Safety  
We have developed a robust certification process to train both  Customer Engineers, who maintain and repair customer equipment in  their cleanrooms, and Manufacturing Technicians and Engineers, who  build and assemble our equipment prior to shipment. These procedures  require extremely safe work environments and highly knowledgeable  and skilled employees. In addition, we periodically assess technical and  functional competencies for key jobs (Engineering and Operations, for  example) and develop training activities to make sure that requisite  employees maintain their Numbers. Learn more about our safety  performance in the Environment section of this report.  
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
In 2018, 99 percent of our  employees received regular  performance and career  planning reviews 
Career Development, Compliance  Training and Growth Opportunities  
Managers and employees meet quarterly to check in on and facilitate  career planning.  
While some employees take AGU courses voluntarily for personal  or career development, compliance training is mandatory for our  workforce. Topics include health and safety, standards of business  conduct, ethics and intellectual property protection. This training must  be completed within certain time frames and renewed every two to  three years, depending on the course requirements. Content is updated  annually to ensure accuracy, business relevance and legal compliance.  
Beyond AGU, we support employees in continuing their formal  education by providing a tuition-assistance program and offering  specialized courses through partnerships with a variety of universities  and professional organizations. 
Training in 2018 
In 2018 our full-time employees completed an average of 63 hours,  and our workforce as a whole (including full-time, temporary workers,  contractors and interns) completed an average of 46 hours of training  per person. These numbers show an increase of 16 and 13 percent,  respectively, over hours trained in 2017. 
In addition, 377 employees used Applied s Tuition Assistance Program  for a degree program in the U.S. 
Training in 2018 by the numbers 
Total number of unique employees  who have taken one or more AGU  courses 20,930 
Total training 1,314,861 hours 
Average training hours   per person 63 hours 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Training and Development 21 
Engineering and Technology Programs 
Semiconductor technologies change at lightning speed. Our workforce has access to diverse technical programs, forums, conferences and  lectures to stay abreast of new and emerging products, processes and technologies. These programs prepare our teams to anticipate and  meet the fast-paced technological advances our products require. Here are a few examples of our engineering and technology programs: 
Engineering and Technology (ET)  Conference  
At our 32nd ET Conference, nearly 900 of our top  technologists and engineers from around the world  gathered in Las Vegas, Nevada in February 2018.   A record 1,900 abstracts were submitted, and more  than 450 employees were carefully selected by the  committee to present their ideas in poster sessions  and oral presentations. The presenters included  many first-time attendees and young professionals.  These innovators are expanding the definition of who  we are and contributing to the future we will shape. 
The CTO Guest Lecture Series  
Our Office of the Chief Technology Officer (CTO)  invites experts from across the industry, academia  and government R D institutions to host guest  lectures on emerging technologies related to  materials science and engineering topics at our Santa  Clara campus. Each lecture is made available online  for employees who cannot attend in person.  
Established in 2015, our appliedx digital learning  lab helps employees develop the skills they need  to increase the rate of product development. By  providing a seamless, integrated approach to  advancing learning, appliedx aims to enrich the depth  and range of our employees  learning experience  based on their role within Applied.  
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Strengthening Applied s University  Relations  
Applied has enjoyed mutually beneficial  relationships with many of the world s top  engineering universities for decades. We provide  funding to university faculty and labs, engage in  collaborative research and continually recruit top  talent from academia to strengthen our workforce.  We recognize that university engagements are  critical for maximizing competitiveness in today s  global knowledge economy. In 2018, we worked to  strengthen relationships with ten universities that  are internationally renowned for their technology  programs, deepening our collaborations and  strengthening our workforce s connection to  cutting-edge research as it happens. 
appliedx Pathway is the most recent addition to the  appliedx platform. Partnering with AGU, appliedx  Pathway empowers learners to take control of their  professional development by offering a growing  catalog of courses that presents our people with the  opportunity to set goals and approach how best to  achieve them in a self-directed way. 
California Institute of Technology (Caltech)  Systems Engineering Certification Course 
Through an educational partnership with Caltech,  our engineers have the opportunity to earn a  Caltech Systems Engineering (SE) certificate  through appliedx via desktop or mobile anytime,  anywhere. The 26-week course is a customized  program specifically designed around the evolving  needs of our business, technologies and industry  nomenclature, with the goal of promoting  interdisciplinary knowledge throughout the product  lifecycle. In 2018, 76 employees graduated from  the second class of the program in Santa Clara,  California, and now possess the latest knowledge on  systems engineering.  
The SE certificate program received the most  professional interest from our employee survey in  2018. As a result, we have increased our sponsorship  and are planning to offer choice projects and  growth opportunities to employees who have  completed the program. Due to the success of our  collaboration with Caltech, we have partnered with  Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to offer  a complementary certificate program. 
Testimonies from  Employee Graduates  of the Caltech SE  Certificate Program  
 As a Global Product Support engineer, I  interact with our engineering teams and our  customers. Through the course, I gained a  more holistic perspective of the products that  I m working on. Being able to think at the  system level enables me to resolve customer  issues faster and better. If all employees  apply systems thinking we will be a more  efficient company as a whole.  
Anahita Yazdi  
 One of my colleagues graduated in the  first class and recommended I take it. The  course provides an interdisciplinary approach  to solving complex problems using various  models, charts, scorecards and templates. I  learned to shift my perspective and now feel  more empowered to tackle and solve future  complex problems by applying systems  thinking in whatever aspect my team and I  are involved with.  
Vaibhav Soni  
Susan Schmitt  Group Vice President, Human Resources 
Message From Our New HR Leader 
We value great talent and diverse perspectives, knowing our differences can be our greatest strength as  a global leader. Our team spans 19 countries, reflecting various cultures, backgrounds, ages, genders and  ethnicities that come together to form a rich tapestry of talent and contributions.  
We also believe that our culture and workplace experiences matter, so that all individuals feel respected  and empowered to reach their full potential at Applied, and so that everyone has a fair and equal  opportunity for development, and advancement, and to make a difference.  
Embracing a Culture of Inclusion 
Our commitment to our Culture of Inclusion journey will broaden the diversity of our workplace and help  us build a culture that benefits everyone  our people, our customers and our stakeholders.  
This commitment includes an intentional focus on making inclusion personal for leaders, helping  them be champions for change to strengthen inclusion measures, embed best practices, establish  accountability and ultimately realize our vision for an inclusive culture.  
Our strategies also include outreach to encourage tomorrow s technology leaders, hiring initiatives to  engage women and underrepresented groups, and workplace programs to support all individuals through  professional development opportunities and Employee Resource Groups. 
And while we re making great progress through a comprehensive strategy that builds on our strengths and  continues to push for greater inclusion and engagement at Applied, we ll continue to strive to do more. 
Valuing Differences   
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Achieving our company s vision, to make possible the  technology shaping the future through our innovations,  requires the full engagement of our 21,000 talented  employees around the world. 
Make possible. These two words also inspire our Culture  of Inclusion to make possible an environment where  all of our global team members can contribute and do  their best work. 
Our strategy to achieve these goals and to create a culture of inclusion and authentic engagement for  everyone consists of:  
Engaging employees in an inclusive work environment by: 
Eliminating systemic barriers in our employee lifecycle by: 
Expanding the diversity of our workforce by: 
Diversity and Inclusion Goals and Strategies 
In 2017 we set the following goals to prioritize and measure our effectiveness at  promoting diversity, inclusion and engagement across our global organization:  
  Increase women s representation globally 
  Increase women s representation to 21 percent in the U.S. workforce by 2021 
  Increase underrepresented minorities  representation in our U.S. workforce 
  Demonstrate improvement in the inclusion measurement on our Organizational Health Index  survey of employees 
  Making inclusion personal for leaders 
  Identifying specific actions that foster a more inclusive work environment and encourage  employees to share their ideas 
  Measuring inclusion and engagement in our annual employee survey 
  Identifying systemic barriers in our programs and processes 
  Breaking down systemic barriers in our programs and processes 
  Examining and refreshing benefits programs and HR policies  
  Identifying new selection strategies 
  Developing employee retention strategies 
  Tracking progress by using qualitative and quantitative metrics 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Diversity and Inclusion 22 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Engaging Diverse Talent of the Future 
As the leader in materials engineering solutions, we thrive on innovation and are purposeful in encouraging the young  minds who will create the future. We participate in events that empower, mentor and inspire youth from all communities  and backgrounds during the critical years of early education to focus on STEM initiatives. 
Outreach Programs 
Working with nonprofit organizations provides many opportunities to  connect with and support diverse students.  We value our partnership  with Girlstart, an innovator in creating STEM (Science, Technology,  Engineering and Math) education programs that inspire girls to  transform our world, and Techbridge Girls, dedicated to empowering  girls from low-income communities through high quality STEM  programming.   
We also work with the National Society of Black Engineers  (NSBE)  FreshStart Program in Austin, Texas, to help 6th-12th graders and  their parents better understand STEM career opportunities. Other  organizations we support include the Society of Mexican American  Engineers and Scientists, Society of Women Engineers, and City Year  San Jose Silicon Valley. 
We are proud of our 16-year partnership with Breakthrough Silicon  Valley in Santa Clara, California, and Austin, Texas, empowering more  than 2,900 local students with limited educational opportunities to  become the first in their families to attend college.  
Employees volunteer their time and talent during our Career  Exploration Day event with Breakthrough Silicon Valley. In July, we  hosted a half-day event where team members from three of our  Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) combined efforts to create a variety  of STEM activities for these diverse students, including lab tours,  hands-on lectures and solar car building. 
 This program helps to change lives by providing  both exposure and opportunity to which many of  the students would not otherwise have access,   
states Sherry Mings, Community Affairs officer of Applied s Black  Employee Network Leadership Encouraging Achievement through  Diversity Black Employee Network (LEAD BEN) in Santa Clara, who  has helped host the event for more than five years.  
In fact, throughout the year our U.S. University Recruiting team partners  with members of our ERGs, such as LEAD BEN to bring local female  and underrepresented minority students onsite to our Silicon Valley and  Austin campuses. These students experience employee-led Q A panel  discussions, fabrication facilities tours to learn about our operations,  and networking dinner with employees and fellow students.  
We re proud that our employees, many of whom are active members  of our seven diverse ERGs, are integral to the success of outreach  programs designed to motivate and inspire young people from all  backgrounds and communities to become the engineers and innovators  of the future.  
Learn more about our community programs for  underrepresented groups and young women in  the Community section of this report. i 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Diversity and Inclusion 23 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Diversity and Inclusion 24 
University Partnerships and Internships 
We know that the best way to prepare our future engineers and leaders  is to improve their access to quality education. This year, our Office of  the Chief Technology Officer (CTO) created a new partnership with  the Joint School of Nanoscience and Nanoengineering (JSNN) at North  Carolina A T State University, a nationally recognized Historically Black  College and University (HBCU) dating back to 1890. This partnership  enables the company to support the development of cutting-edge  technology and build relationships with faculty and students at a  leading HBCU a key component of expanding our diverse talent  pipeline.  
Developing future talent through internships is a key part of our  outreach. More than 250 college students globally had the opportunity  in 2018 to gain real-world experience and insight into a future career in  technology:  
Our programs offer participants unique industry knowledge and  hands-on experience, including employee mentoring, training, lectures  from renowned professors and exclusive networking sessions with our  executives. Many former interns ultimately join Applied through the  New College Graduate (NCG) program. 
  150  interns in the United States. Students not only gained  training and experience, they also engaged in local office  team-building events and community outreach. In Silicon Valley,  interns had an opportunity to learn about new technology and  the industry value chain by participating in the Engineering and  Technology conference and SEMICON West. 
  50  Interns in Korea, India, Taiwan and Singapore. Since its  inception in 2013, our Summer Student Program in Taiwan  continues to motivate students with tours, technology equipment  lectures, technical seminars and executive talks. 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
New College Graduate Program  
Our NCG program is essential to attracting the top talent entering  the workplace. Our U.S. outreach involves sponsoring, hosting and  participating in a wide range of activities, such as the Math, Engineering  and Science Achievement (MESA) Student Leadership Conference  the  National Society of Black Engineers Employer Roundtables  the Society  of Women Engineers Evening with Industry event  and the University  of California, Los Angeles Center for Excellence in Engineering and  Diversity (CEED) Networking and Professional Etiquette event. 
We are building momentum with the NCG program, which is bringing  women to Applied at a growing pace in the U.S., up four points from  FY2017. Fig. 1 
In China, Applied has a long history of investment and talent  development. In 2018, we recruited more than 120 graduates from top  Chinese universities to join the New Star Program --our first large-scale  NCG program in the country since 2000. The reinvigorated program is  already enhancing our operations in this vitally important region. 
Figure 1: Percentage of Applied U.S. NCG women hired, up 4 points from FY2017 
U.S. New College Graduate Hiring 
Our CTO office created a new partnership with the Joint School of Nanoscience  and Nanoengineering (JSNN) at North Carolina A T State University 
New Star Program in China: In 2018, over 120 graduates joined from top Chinese  universities joined Applied s New Star Program our first large-scale NCG  program in the country since 2000 
Learn more about our engineering and technology  programs in the Training and Development section, and  Generation Girl in the Community sections of this report i 
Figure 3: Percentage of Engineering women in our workforce 
Engineering Women Employees 
Figure 2: Percentage of women in our workforce 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Women Employees 
Creating More Opportunities for Diversity Now 
Hiring Initiatives  
We are committed to increasing the diversity of our candidate pools  globally, to ensure the diverse, engaged workforce critical to our  success. Our talent acquisition strategies include specific recruiting  efforts to hire women, underrepresented groups and minorities in the  U.S.  Our recruiters actively partner with hiring managers to understand  position qualifications and present diverse candidates. We are also  beginning to build processes to ensure interviewers from diverse  backgrounds are engaged in the hiring process.  
Our outreach and recruiting efforts are making a difference in the  representation of women in our workforce. By focusing our hiring  initiatives on increasing the number of women employed in the U.S.,   we have seen steady, positive movement.Fig. 2  
In 2018, the number of women holding engineering positions increased  both globally and in the U.S. due to focused recruiting efforts across  many countries.Fig. 3 We are making progress toward our hiring goals but  recognize that opportunities remain to increase representation. We are  confident that programs focused on diversity, including Generation Girl,  an initiative recently launched by the Applied Materials Foundation,  will advance our effort to increase women s preparedness for and  representation in the workforce as well as in leadership positions at  Applied and throughout the technology industry.  
Underrepresented Minorities in the U.S. 
We continue to seek out diverse talent at universities with strong  engineering and science programs, including those universities in the  U.S. with relatively high percentages of Black African American and  Hispanic Latino students. We are also developing our educational  outreach programs, participating in onsite networking and  informational events to attract college students pursuing STEM careers. 
Our workforce diversity statistics have trended slightly upward in the  past two years for underrepresented minorities Hispanic or Latino,  Black or African American, Two or More Races, and Native Hawaiian or  Pacific Islander.  
We plan to build on this momentum and believe the outreach efforts  and talent acquisition strategies that we have put in place will make a  more positive difference in years to come. 
2016 2018 U.S. Ethnicity Trends 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Diversity and Inclusion 25 
2018                    2016 
Veterans and Military Employees 
We support employees around the world who serve their countries. The unique  experiences, skills and perspectives of our employees who are current or former military  personnel enhance our operations and enrich our culture every day. These employees have  unique technical skills and thrive in team-driven work that is important when developing the  complex equipment we produce. We actively recruit exemplary candidates from the large  pool of talented individuals who have served in the military.  
In the U.S., we participated in more than 25 events to further our military  and veteran recruiting in 2018, and 140  veterans are bringing their  experience and talents to the company. We support the commitments  of those employees who are active in the military by allowing them time  away from Applied to fulfill these obligations. We are proud of receiving  consistent recognition for hiring and supporting veterans, including as a  Military-Friendly Employer and a U.S. Veterans Magazine Top Veteran- Friendly Employer. 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Building on Our Culture of Inclusion 
Our journey involves embedding a culture of inclusion throughout the company, in all  that we do and across our global workplace. With our leaders as allies in identifying  and eliminating barriers to inclusion, we strive to create a more inclusive experience  at Applied. Our Employee Resource Groups also serve as champions in fostering  diversity and contributing to a supportive, dynamic environment. 
Women in Engineering Program  
Applied encourages and supports women  who want to pursue a career in engineering  through our Women in Engineering Talent  Development Program (WiETDP) a two-year  program providing women with opportunities  to participate in conferences, professional skill  development workshops, roundtables focused  on career and professional development, and  mentoring programs. In 2018, we sponsored  employee attendance in nine conferences  across the U.S., including the IEEE (Institute of  Electrical and Electronics Engineers) Women in  Engineering International Leadership Conference,  Massachusetts Conference for Women, Texas  Conference for Women, and Watermark  Conference for Women. 
IEEE Women in Engineering International Leadership  Conference 2018 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Diversity and Inclusion 26 
Supportive Benefits Paid Family  Leave for All 
We know our employees can have life changing  events that affect their ability to work fulltime.  We offer generous benefits to assist our  employees through these times. Applied does  not discriminate against anyone on the basis of  gender, race, sexual orientation, marital status,  age or other protected characteristics. This  commitment extends to our benefits that are  offered to all domestic partners.  
Applied offers eight weeks of 100 percent paid  parental leave to new parents for biological,  adopted and foster children. Additionally, our  paid family leave benefit to care for a seriously ill  spouse, domestic partner, child, parent, parent- in-law, sibling, grandparent or grandchild is  available nationwide at 60 percent pay for six  weeks. 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Diversity and Inclusion 27 
Inclusion and Engagement Events  
Our ERGs bring employees of all backgrounds together to observe and  celebrate the varied and rich cultures of our employee population. In  2018, our ERGs organized several cultural events including celebrations  for Lunar New Year, Black History Month, International Women s Day,  Memorial Day, Pride Month and Hispanic Heritage Month. 
Since 2010, we have held internal events that promote a culture of  diversity and inclusion. In recent years, these events have become  larger in scale, enhanced by the participation of our Board of Directors,  CEO and executive staff. These activities emphasize several key  themes: 
Our 2018 annual Diversity   Inclusion events were held in Austin  in September and Silicon Valley in October. Programs included  motivational speakers on topics such as mutual responsibility for  creating an inclusive environment, building productive working  relationships and improving communication across generations.  Speakers and workshops alike encouraged employees to reflect on  our global diversity as a major asset that strengthens both our shared  success and social progress.  
Supply Chain Diversity  
Our emphasis on global diversity also extends to our supply chain  partners. We are committed to selecting diverse suppliers who provide  products and services that meet our supplier-selection criteria and help  us fulfill customer requirements. More information is available in the  Supply Chain section. 
  Being bold and speaking up 
  Appreciating differences that stimulate learning and develop   innovative solutions 
  Creating an inclusive and collaborative environment that is  empowering and engaging  
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Our Asians in Motion (AIM) ERG gather employees in Austin,  Texas, to celebrate Diwali, the festival of lights 
Our Applied Pride (LGBTQ and  Friends) ERG gathers employees in  Silicon Valley to raise the rainbow  flag in celebration of LGBTQ  Pride  Month 
Employee Resource Groups 
We value the positive impact of our many Employee Resource  Groups (ERGs), which foster diversity and inclusion through  information-sharing and provide support, professional  development and cultural awareness opportunities. ERGs  contribute to inclusion in every stage of career development  from early education to employment and inclusion in the  workforce and directly support business goals through  talent outreach and employee engagement.  
In 2018, we funded seven ERGs with 21 chapters spread  across our worldwide locations: 
We value the counsel and insights that ERG members provide  to leadership and to Human Resources on how we can  continue to strengthen a culture of inclusion at Applied. Each  ERG has an executive champion who provides leadership  consultation and ensures open communication between  these important groups and senior management. 
  Applied Pride (LGBTQ and Friends) 
  Asians in Motion (AIM) 
  Hispanics in Partnership (HiP) 
  Leadership Encouraging Achievement through Diversity  Black Employee Network (LEAD BEN) 
  Veterans Employee Team (VET) 
  Women s Professional Development Network (WPDN) 
  Young Professionals Network (YPN) 
Ethics and Compliance 
We apply the highest ethical and compliance standards to all of our business  activities. Responsibility, accountability and integrity are foundational to our success.  These core values are upheld throughout our operations and extend to our customers  and supply chains. They are vital to our culture of mutual trust and respect, which  nurtures constructive and cooperative partnerships with all of our stakeholders from  our workforce to our customers, our suppliers and the public. 
Standards of Business  Conduct  
We promote a strong and consistent culture of  ethics through our global Standards of Business  Conduct (SBC), which establishes policies and  ethical conduct expectations for our workforce  around the world. The SBC covers topics such  as Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest, Data  Privacy, Protecting Intellectual Property (IP) and  Workplace Safety. The SBC is available to our  workforce and suppliers in 11 languages via our  website.  
All personnel must: 
1. Review and certify adherence to our SBC  upon joining Applied 
2. Verify annually that they have read,  understand and agree to comply with the  SBC by completing a recertification process 
3. Refresh their knowledge every two years by  completing an online training course 
In 2018, we achieved a 99 percent  SBC-recertification rate i 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Training on Policy 
In addition to required adherence to our SBC,  each member of our workforce undergoes  comprehensive web-based and or classroom  training on our Anti-Corruption, Conflict of  Interest, Global Gift, Expense Reporting, Global  Travel and Insider Trading policies. Employees  are trained on these policies when they are hired,  and they must refresh their knowledge annually  thereafter. 
All of our employees and many of our suppliers  are trained in privacy issues and IP protection,  including the need to protect our customers  and  suppliers  data and information. We also provide  ethics training to suppliers to make certain that  they understand our requirements and how they  can access assistance if needed. 
Ethics Week   Ethics Applied  Everywhere 
We hold an Ethics Week campaign each year to  emphasize our commitment to operating with  the highest ethical standards. Throughout the  weeklong event, we invite all employees to hear  our key executives reinforce the importance of  ethics, integrity and legal compliance, and we  provide our employees with the resources and  encouragement to fulfill their responsibilities  with these values. In addition, the head of Ethics  and Compliance communicates reminders about  our policies in key areas that our workforce may  encounter in their day-to-day roles including  expense reporting, and travel and gift policies  throughout the year.  
During our Ethics week in February of 2018, our  General Counsel moderated a panel discussion  with key executives at an All Employee meeting  on the importance of ethics at Applied and the  role we all play in upholding our ethical standards  and safeguarding our company s reputation  especially among our customers and suppliers. 
Other Outreach Events  
The Ethics and Compliance team also holds  informal events, referred to as Ethics roadshows,  at all major global locations on a two-year  rotation. These events are promoted through  emails and other forms of direct marketing.  Team leaders are encouraged to further engage  employees through team meetings.  
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Ethics and Compliance 28 
Employee Ethics Survey 
We conduct an Ethics Survey every two years  to gauge awareness and obtain confidential  feedback to identify which ethics program  elements are effective, as well as where we have  opportunities to improve. This survey is part of  our continued effort to improve our ethics and  compliance programs and actions. It is designed  to capture our employees  overall perception of  the company s ethical culture and also to assess  how perceptions vary across management levels  and between business units. This survey helps  us to identify opportunities for improvements  to better drive awareness, reporting and  compliance. The next survey, scheduled to be  conducted in 2020, will incorporate past survey  results, emerging trends and best practices in  order to continually improve our ethics standards  and programs. 
Speak-Up!   Our Non-Retaliation Policy 
We foster a positive work environment where every  employee s voice can be heard and issues can be raised,  promptly investigated and resolved. We encourage open,  honest communication that can flow across all levels of the  organization. We offer a variety of ways for employees to  raise their concerns, including through the toll-free Ethics  Helpline or by speaking directly to their manager, Human  Resources business partner or any attorney at Applied. 
Applied encourages our workforce to report any misconduct,  ask questions about personal ethical responsibility, or  raise concerns about potentially unethical or questionable  behavior of others.  
Our employees know that we prohibit retaliation against any  member of our workforce for reporting a possible violation  of our SBC policies in good faith, or for initiating, testifying,  assisting or participating in any manner in any investigation,  proceeding or hearing.  
We clearly state our commitment to providing a workplace  that is free of discrimination, harassment and retaliation  in our Human Resources Policy and SBC, which includes  opportunities and procedures for employees or other  stakeholders to voice a complaint or concern as well as  information on supervisory responsibilities and responsive  actions. 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Business Ethics Helplines 
We maintain a confidential toll-free Ethics Helpline and an online help  form that are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week worldwide.  The helpline and help form are administered by an independent  service provider. In addition, any employee, supplier, customer or other  stakeholder can email the Applied Ethics and Compliance team to raise  an issue or ask a question without fear of retaliation.  
Policies and procedures are in place to make sure that every issue  is investigated appropriately and in compliance with Applied s high  standards and applicable local laws. These cases and resolutions  are reported to senior management and the members of the Audit  Committee of the Board every quarter. Final resolution can take a  variety of forms, including disciplinary action for employees, specialized  training, changes or improvements to our policies, termination or  suspension of business relationships, or other corrective actions.  
Consistent Reporting and a   Record of Compliance 
In 2018, no material fines or other sanctions were imposed on Applied  for noncompliance with laws and regulations. No legal actions were  taken against Applied for anti-competitive behavior or antitrust or  monopoly practices. In addition, no significant fines for non-compliance  with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products  and services were imposed. Applied did not receive substantiated  complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of  customer data in 2018. 
Tools and Resources  
Several tools and resources are available to our employees to help them  conduct business legally and ethically, and protect intellectual property,  including:  
  Ethics Applied Everywhere website, which includes: 
  Ethics and Compliance Team  (formally Office of the Ombudsman) 
  Valuable Intellectual Property (VIP) site  
  Trainings  
  Ethics videos  
  Guidelines and security tools for sharing information 
  Standards of Business Conduct  
  Global Business Ethics Helpline and online tools  
  Intranet site with company policies including Anti-Corruption,  Conflict of Interest, Gift, Insider Trading and Travel 
  Third-party due diligence and approval process 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Ethics and Compliance 29 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Human Rights 30 
Human Rights 
We are unequivocally committed to protecting human rights wherever we do  business both across our workforce and throughout our supply chain.  
Applied has committed to its customers that modern slavery does not exist within  our operations. We also assess and address any risks posed by our suppliers.  
Owned and Operated  Facilities 
We prohibit the use of child labor and forced,  bonded or indentured labor practices in our  operations. We also forbid harsh or inhumane  treatment, including corporal punishment  or the threat of corporal punishment. This  policy is included in our Human Resources  Policy Manual, the company s Standards of  Business Conduct and the Responsible Business  Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct, to which we  subscribe. In addition, all personnel involved  in hiring, supporting, supervising or directing  members of our workforce are trained on these  policies annually and are required to apply their  knowledge consistently throughout our global  operations.  
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
For detailed information about Applied s commitment to ensuring  that human rights are respected and maintained throughout our  supply chain, please see the Supply Chain section of this report i 
Supply Chain  Responsibilities 
Like many technology companies, our supply  chain encompasses thousands of direct suppliers  and a countless quantity of upstream suppliers,  which are connected through complex networks  spanning the globe. Further, we share many  of the same direct and indirect suppliers with  several other companies in our sectors. Because  we recognize that our ability to influence  positive change and strengthen the ethical and  sustainable behaviors of these mutual suppliers  is greatest when we collaborate with other  industry members, we have adopted the RBA  Code of Conduct, along with our Standards of  Business Conduct, as the standards we hold our  suppliers to regarding human rights, including  prohibitions on exploitative, child and inhumane  labor practices.  
We understand that Applied Materials has a  responsibility and an opportunity to be a leader  in society. We strive to create a positive impact  through philanthropic investments, community  programs and public policy engagement.  
IN THIS SECTION Community Public Policy 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018 31 
Community  
As a responsible corporate citizen, we value the importance of contributing to the  communities in which our employees work and live around the world. Through corporate  initiatives and the Applied Materials Foundation (the Foundation), we strategically  deploy charitable investments and human resources, supporting organizations that offer  valuable services without discriminating against any group or individual. 
Community Giving  
We believe that our charitable investments  make a more meaningful impact when we focus  on local needs and context. Applied and the  Foundation provide funding in four main areas:  education, civic engagement, arts and culture,  and the environment. 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
We also contribute to relief and recovery efforts  when natural disasters affect our communities  worldwide. In addition, Applied matches the  contributions our employees make to eligible  organizations they directly support. 
In 2018, the Foundation launched Generation  Girl, a new initiative designed to inspire girls to  pursue their dreams. 
FY2018 Community Giving:  10.9 Million 
2018 Community Giving Highlights 
In 2018, through direct corporate contributions and the Foundation, we donated    10.9 million, including:  
in strategic grants, dedicated  to our four main focus areas  and to Generation Girl, that  impacted 320 organizations in  10 countries 
 7.7  million 
Percentage of contributions by categories  
in Volunteer Time Grants and  Matching Gifts for employee  donations 
 3.1  million 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Community 32 
Employee Matching 
Civic Engagement 
Disaster Response 
Arts and Culture 
Environment 
Generation Girl 
in disaster response to assist  with relief and recovery  operations for flood, mudslide  and earthquake disasters in  Japan 
 33  thousand 
Applied Materials Foundation 
A long history of giving is at the heart of  our corporate culture. In 1994, the Applied  Materials Foundation was established to  guarantee that we maintain our commitment  to the community during times of prosperity  and challenge. For more than 20 years, the  Foundation has supported our local and global  communities through grants, corporate matches  and special initiatives. Eligible organizations in  our communities are invited to submit grant  requests that are reviewed on a semi-annual  basis. Grant Guidelines for the Foundation,  including the grant application and details on  review timing, are available online. 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Education Education is the key to helping children unlock the talent  and potential that will shape a better tomorrow. Applied  provides charitable grants to schools and organizations  to reduce the academic achievement gap and increase  access to quality education worldwide.  
A few examples of our 2018 contributions to organizations making   an impact around the globe include: 
Employee Matching 
We invite our employees around the world to maximize their personal  contributions to charity by taking part in our Matching Gift program.  The Foundation matches employee contributions to eligible charities  and educational programs dollar-for-dollar, up to a  3,000 annual limit  per employee.  
Our employees are also invited to support organizations in their local  community through volunteer activities, often company-initiated  events. The Foundation also donates to an employee s charity of  choice based on time spent volunteering with approved nonprofit  organizations through our Volunteer Time Grant program. 
  Supporting basic literacy by creating engaging, grade-level  appropriate libraries at Manor Independent School District in  Manor, Texas and through the Ling Shan Charity Foundation in  rural China 
  Preparing under-resourced students with the academic and  emotional skills they need to succeed, through programs such as  RISE, which inspires and supports first generation, college-bound  students in San Jose, California, and NPO NextDoor in Tokyo,  Japan, which provides free weekend sessions for youth preparing  for high school exams  
  Encouraging best practices in teaching and school management  through grants to progressive programs in Israel, Taiwan and the  Silicon Valley region  
Breakthough Silicon Valley students learn about business and engineering concepts  from our employee volunteers 
Students visit our Applied Materials campus in Israel 
Teach for Taiwan ensures high quality education for local students 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Community 33 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Community 34 
Civic Engagement As a responsible corporate citizen, we want to be a leader in the community by assisting those struggling with basic  human needs and affected by disasters. That s why we invest in programs including access to nutritious food, clean water,  affordable housing and short-term emergency assistance. We also respond to disasters near our facilities by helping with  recovery and rebuilding efforts. 
North America Food Drive:  2.35 Million Raised to  Alleviate Hunger  
In 2018, our North America employees gave generously during our  annual Food Drive, resulting in  2.35 million for more than 40 food  banks where we operate. During the campaign, employees learned  about hunger in their local communities and rallied to give funds online  and participate in various fundraising events. 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Applied Materials Silicon Valley Turkey Trot: Largest  Fully-Timed Thanksgiving Day Race in the U.S.  
To help Silicon Valley residents who struggle to meet basic needs,  we sponsor the Applied Materials Silicon Valley Turkey Trot, held on  Thanksgiving Day, to raise money for local charities that provide food,  shelter and healthcare to vulnerable populations.  
The Turkey Trot, which has raised more than  8.8 million over 14 years  of trotting, has become a nationally recognized event. Running USA,  a Los Angeles based non-profit organization, ranks it the largest fully- timed Thanksgiving Day race in the U.S. The Turkey Trot is a valued  local tradition that helps us launch the holiday season with a festive,  philanthropic and community-focused spirit. 
We are proud that more than 21,000 community members, including  many Applied employees, participated in the 14th annual Turkey Trot in  2018, raising over  934,000 for local charities. 
Responding to Disaster 
Applied promptly and generously responds when disasters strike areas  where the company operates or our employees live. For example, we  assisted with relief and recovery operations for floods, mudslides and  earthquake disasters in Japan by donating  33,000 in 2018.  
Arts and Culture  We have a rich history of supporting arts, cultural  events and organizations that bring people of diverse  backgrounds together in shared experiences to encourage  participation, learning and community building. 
In 2018, we sponsored dozens of programs that provided access and  exposure to the arts globally. Here are a few artistic initiatives we  contributed to in the last year: 
  In the Phoenix, Arizona area, both the Black Theatre Troupe  and the Valley Youth Theatre offered creative ways to integrate  arts into education and inspire students through the magic of  live theatre  
  The creation of an art studio by the Community Chest in  Singapore gave children from disadvantaged families a space in  which to discover their artistic abilities 
  The Asia Museum of Modern Art in Taiwan offered students  courses in the aesthetic evaluation of visual arts 
  The Cape Ann Symphony provided classroom presentations  and concert performances for youth in Gloucester,  Massachusetts 
  Free access to summer cultural and entertainment  performances provided by the Zilker Theatre in Austin, Texas   the San Jose Jazz Festival in Silicon Valley  and a Children s  Festival produced by the Bay Area Cultural Connections 
Environment Applied values the importance of  investing in environmental programs  that help us all to understand our  roles as stewards of the Earth. We  encourage our employees to volunteer  as well as contribute to environmental  organizations in the communities  where we operate. 
EarthWorks  
2018 marked the tenth anniversary of  EarthWorks, our month-long environmental  campaign to honor Earth Day, which falls on  April 22nd. The focus of EarthWorks is to raise  awareness and inspire action to address some  of our most pressing environmental risks. 
Through EarthWorks, we educate our  employees about environmental issues in our  local areas of operation, connect employees  with communities through volunteer  opportunities, and support organizations  that are making a positive change in the  environment. Each year, EarthWorks provides  an opportunity for employees and their  families to come together and focus on the  same community cause. 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Our employees support local environmental  sustainability efforts around the world  
Educating children 
Escorting students with  special needs to off-site  classes near a local  wetland area in Korea with  the Seongnam Federation  for Environmental  Movements 
Planting trees 
Helping to sustain the  greenery of Singapore  through the Garden  City Fund, rebuilding  the coastline in the  Millennium Hope Hills  in Miyagi, Japan, and  enhancing public lands  in Austin, Texas with  TreeFolks, Inc. 
Protecting oceans 
Engaging youth in ocean- related environmental  programs through the  Gloucester Maritime  Heritage Center in  Massachusetts, and  both the Marine Science  Institute and the O Neil  Sea Odyssey in California 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Community 35 
Promoting  wilderness 
Working with the Society  of Wilderness in Taiwan  to support lectures,  wilderness excursions  and hands-on activities  to increase awareness  of the importance of  environmental issues 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Community 36 
Generation Girl  
We believe that all children, regardless of gender, race or income level, should be able to pursue their  dreams. While Applied Materials and the Applied Materials Foundation have invested in education  programs in low-income communities for more than a decade, the specific challenges faced by young  girls as they explore future career paths necessitate a more targeted strategy. 
In 2018, the Applied Materials Foundation launched Generation Girl, a new initiative to work toward  a future where all girls have the opportunity to reach their potential. We are engaging with nonprofit  organizations around the country to help girls gain the confidence, skills and opportunities they need to  succeed in any path they choose. 
This program is currently active in the United States in Austin, Texas  Gloucester, Massachusetts  and in  the Silicon Valley region in California. 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Generation Girl a New Initiative of the Foundation 
This year, our grantees are working on a variety of projects, including:  
As a result of efforts like this, we hope girls will have the confidence to explore their  interests and passions and, ultimately, to pursue a career in whatever field they choose. 
For more information, visit our Generation Girl site online. 
  Addressing biases in the classroom   through gender equity-focused teacher training and in-class student activities 
  Ensuring girls from all backgrounds have access to high-quality programs,   including STEM programs, by launching new efforts in underserved areas and  building the capacity of existing providers to serve more girls from low-income  backgrounds 
  Increasing exposure to positive female role models  by facilitating introductions between our employees and girls and young women  in the communities where we work and live 
  Building the capacity of youth-serving nonprofit organizations   working in the area of gender equity  
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Public Policy 37 
Applied Materials believes that we can play an important role in educating policy makers and trade associations on   the key issues our customers, business and industry are facing in today s world. Our Government Affairs group leads our  efforts to shape public policy and help relevant stakeholders understand how smart policies can increase opportunities  across the entire industry in a progressive and positive way.  
It is worth noting that neither the company nor the Applied Materials Political Action Committee (AMPAC) makes  contributions to so-called  Super-PACs,  and political contributions are limited to within the U.S.   
Public Policy  
Our Public Policy Priorities  Environmental, Safety and Health Regulatory Issues 
We, along with our customers, operate in business segments subject  to a vast, complex web of regulations governing environmental, safety,  health and other workplace concerns. Applied Materials works with  policymakers and regulators to ensure that these regulations are  crafted in the most effective manner. 
Technology Research Funding 
Technology development is complex and costly. We partner with  public research institutions and government-funded research programs  to make the best use of our collective resources and expertise by  sharing knowledge, partnering with select initiatives, and identifying  future technology development challenges and needs. We advocate  for government funding and other incentives to expand industry R D  activities to meet the growing demand for advanced technologies and  sophisticated electronic applications, such as artificial intelligence.  
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Trade Facilitation 
With approximately 90 percent of our revenues generated outside  the U.S., international trade is vital to our business and customers.  Our ability to sell and service our products is affected tremendously  by myriad laws and regulations governing trade. We advocate for  removing trade barriers in sensible and effective ways. 
Tax Policy 
Applied Materials engaged with a variety of policymakers and  participants in the political process throughout 2018. Our unique  industry perspective informs our efforts to advocate for progressive and  sensible policy changes that can address corporate tax, international  competition, and R D issues.  
We are committed to acting in accordance with all applicable laws  governing lobbying. To this end, we disclose all of our lobbying activities  in periodic reports filed with the U.S. Senate, the U.S. House of  Representatives or the appropriate state agency. Our federal lobbying is  also reported publicly through the Lobbying Disclosure Act Database. 
Applied Materials  Political Action Committee (AMPAC) 
In 2004, we established the Applied Materials Political  Action Committee (AMPAC) to participate more fully in the  political process. In full compliance with all U.S. campaign  finance laws and regulations, campaign contributions are  disbursed to candidates for state or federal office, to other  political action committees or to political party committees.  While our corporate organization pays its administrative  expenses, AMPAC is funded entirely through voluntary  contributions from directors and eligible employees, many  of whom are executives. AMPAC s activities are overseen by  the AMPAC Board of Directors, which draws its members  from our employee pool, including several vice presidents.  
AMPAC regularly files its contributions reports with  the Federal Election Commission through its outside  independent counsel. These reports are available online. 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Public Policy 38 
Political Contributions 
Applied takes care to make sure that any and all political contributions comply with  applicable campaign-finance and related laws. Our AMPAC contributions are reviewed and  approved by outside legal counsel prior to issuance. In addition, they are subject to approval  by our Vice President of Communications and Public Affairs and are reported directly to  our General Counsel and the Chairman of AMPAC to verify that they are consistent with  AMPAC s contribution policies and criteria.  
Our State Contributions Committee (consisting  of the same individuals who serve on the AMPAC  Board) oversees corporate political spending  at the state and local levels. When warranted,  we use corporate funds to make financial and  in-kind political contributions within the U.S., as  permitted by applicable laws, such as contributions  to candidates for statewide offices and state  legislatures, as well as to local or regional ballot  measures. 
All contributions are disclosed publicly on  our website biannually. During 2018, political  contributions made by AMPAC and the State  Contributions Committee totaled  47,000. We also  contributed  10,000 to one regional ballot measure.  However, no contributions were made in support of  entities organized under section 527 of the U.S. tax  code, including governors  associations.  
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Oversight, Review and Ethics 
All of our AMPAC or corporate political contributions  proposed by our Government Affairs group  are reviewed by the AMPAC Board or State  Contributions Committee, respectively. Support  of particular candidates is evaluated based on  each candidate s position on issues of strategic  importance to the company, leadership on key  committees and whether we have a significant  presence in the candidate s state or district. All  employees involved in this process know that a  contribution may not be made in return for, or in  anticipation of, an official act. All contributions are  made based only on corporate objectives, without  regard for the private political preferences of  committee members.  
In addition to regular governance policies and  company controls, all persons acting on Applied s  behalf must certify that they comply with our  Standards of Business Conduct which prohibits  corrupt practices, including any promise or payment  of bribes or kickbacks to government officials. In  addition, we conduct regular compliance-system  reviews and internal audits to confirm that all  corporate contributions are made in accordance with  the law and with our company policies. 
Business and Trade  Associations 
Applied Materials belongs and contributes to several  business and trade associations  representing a  range of issues that concern us. We believe our  involvement helps us to meet the current and  future needs of our customers and their end users  and benefits our overall business. In the U.S., these  associations include groups, other than charitable  and social welfare organizations, falling under  sections 501(c)(4) and 501(c)(6) of the U.S. tax  code that may engage in limited political activity. 
Our membership in a group does not imply that we  endorse the entirety of that group s policy positions.  Further information on our participation in business  and trade organizations is available through our  website. 
 In 2018, we paid approximately  500,000 in trade  association membership dues. Of this amount,  17 percent was specified by the associations as  nondeductible lobbying activity expenditures. Our  membership dues total does not include other costs,  such as specific conference or event sponsorships or  programming activities. 
Detailed reporting on our political  contributions is included at the end of  this report, and our semiannual political  contribution list and trade associations list  are available through our website 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Performance Indicators 39 
1 Renewable energy consists of a combination of  onsite generation and green power purchases. 
2 Amounts for owned facilities include domestic,  landscaping and process (if any) usage. Amounts  for leased facilities include domestic and process (if  any) usage, while leased office-only facilities include  domestic usage only. 
3 Indicates Applied s worldwide direct and  indirect GHG emissions for the last three years  (MTCe metric tons of carbon equivalent). 
4 Percentages may not add up to 100% due to  rounding. 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
Performance Indicators 
About the Company (Fiscal Year)   2016  2017  2018 
Environmental Sustainability (Calendar Year)  2016  2017  2018 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions  Total direct and indirect GHG emissions  170,634  173,491  173,063    by weight (MTCe) (Scope 1 2)3 
Revenue ( Billions)     10.83   14.54   17.25 
Energy Use  Direct energy use (Gas) (Million Therms)  3.8  4.2  4.4 
   Indirect energy use (Electricity) (GWh)1  345  354  376 
  Renewable energy (Electricity) (GWh)1  59  63  66 
Water  Water use2 (CCF)  528,120  594,014  628,993 
Number of locations countries    82 locations  90 locations  93 locations      in 17 countries  in 17 countries  in 17 countries 
Number of patents     10,200   11,900   12,500 
Waste   Recycling  Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (metric tons): 
  Hazardous waste treated off-site  319  316  420 
  Other relevant indirect GHG emissions  11,643  17,322  35,850    by weight (MTCe) (Scope 3 air travel) 
Net Income ( Billions)     1.72   3.43   3.31 
R D ( Billions)     1.54   1.77   2.02 
   Recycled composted diverted  8,795  13,372  10,577 
   Diversion rate  78%  75%  81% 
   Landfill (non-hazardous)  2,187  4,488  2,337 
Number of employees     15,600   18,400   21,000 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Performance Indicators 40 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
 Safety          
 Training and development          
 Diversity and Inclusion          
Workplace (Fiscal Year)    2016  2017  2018 
  Asian  33.4%  34.8%  35.8% 
  Hispanic or Latino  7.1%  7.4%  7.6% 
  Women in U.S. Workforce  18%  18.7%  19.3% 
Worldwide  Total case incidence rate (TCIR)  0.44  0.41  0.52 
  Injuries or illnesses resulting in days away from work,  0.26  0.30  0.34    restricted work activity, or job transfer for every 100    employees (Days Away and Restricted Time or DART) 
  Number of work-related fatalities  0  0  0 
Average hours of training  Regular full-time employees (RFT)  41  53  63  per year per person 
Diversity  Women on Applied Board of Directors  22%  22%  20% 
  Black or African American  3.4%  3.4%  3.7% 
U.S. Ethnicity  White  54.8%  52.6%  51% 
  Women in Global Workforce  16.6%  16.6%  17% 
  Percentage of employees receiving regular  99%  99%  99%      performance and career development reviews 
  Total (RFT, temps, contractors, interns)  30  40  46 
  Number of ergonomic evaluations performed  1,557  2,929  6,039 
  Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander  0.1%  0.1%  0.2% 
  Two or More Races  0.9%  1.1%  1.4% 
  American Indian or Alaska Native  0.2%  0.2%  0.2% 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Performance Indicators 41 
1 Calendar year 2018 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
 Human Rights          
Social Responsibility (Fiscal Year)   2016  2017  2018 
  Total value of financial and in-kind   68,500   85,500   47,000    contributions to political parties, candidates,    and related institutions by AMPAC 
Public Policy  Total value of financial and in-kind   30,000   5,000   10,000    contributions to political parties, candidates,    and related institutions by Applied Materials 
  Total contributions by Applied Materials  36,100  59,000  50,800    Foundation based on Time Grant hours1 
  Percentage of operations that have been subject to  0%  0%  0%    human rights reviews or impact assessments, by country 
Community  Total community investments   9.1M   10.1M   10.9M    by Applied and the Applied Materials     Foundation (excludes administrative)  
  Total Volunteer Time Grant hours logged1  13,501  16,670  16,328 
  Total Giving through the Foundation   4.1M   5.9M   6.2M    Match Program (employee gifts plus match)1 
Applied Materials CSR Report 2018     Resources and References 42 
Resources and References 
For more information about Applied Materials, visit our website at www.appliedmaterials.com.  Additional information regarding Applied Materials  business and our corporate responsibility activities  are available on our website at the following links: 
  2018 Annual Report with 10-K 
  Conflict Minerals Policy and Reporting 
  Corporate Governance 
  Corporate Responsibility 
  CSR Reports (archived) 
  Environmental, Health and Safety Policy 
  ISO OHSAS Certifications 
  Press Releases 
  2018 Political contributions and U.S. Trade, Business and Civic Associations List 
  California Transparency in Supply Chains Act 
  Carbon Disclosure Project  
  Organizational Profile 
(Annual Water Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reports) 
CEO Message             Table of Contents             About Applied Materials             Governance             Environment             Supply Chain             People and Workplace             Society             Performance Indicators 
We would like to hear from you. Please direct questions or comments about this  report to our sustainability reporting team at: corporate responsibility amat.com 
Legal Disclosure 
  2018 Applied Materials, Inc. Applied Materials and the Applied Materials logo are trademarks of Applied  Materials, Inc. and or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Third party trademarks mentioned are the  property of their respective owners. 
Photo Credit 
Photo on page 8 was taken by and used with permission of BTBusbee, an Applied Materials employee. 