Sustainable   Impact Report 
Table of contents 
3  Letter from our President and CEO  
4  About HP 
6 Sustainable Impact 
7  Sustainable Impact strategy 
13  United Nations Sustainable  
  Development Goals 
14  Recognition 
15  Stakeholder engagement 
16  Governance 
16  Materiality 
18 Footprint 
19  Carbon emissions and climate impact  
24 Integrity and     human rights 
25  Ethics and anti-corruption 25  Ethics  
27  Human rights 
In this report,  we ,  us ,  our ,  company ,  HP", and "HP Inc.  refer to HP Inc. (formerly Hewlett-Packard Company) and its consolidated subsidiaries. 
2  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
26  Anti-corruption 
30  Privacy 32  Cybersecurity 
33  Government relations 
34 Supply chain    responsibility 
35  Approach 
38  Health and safety 
39  Responsible minerals sourcing 
41  Supplier diversity 
44  Environmental impact 44  Greenhouse gas emissions 
47   Performance monitoring   and evaluation 
54 Operations 
55  Our employees 55  Diversity, equity, and inclusion 
59  Employee engagement 
59  Employee development 
61  Compensation and benefits 
61  Health and safety 
62  Wellbeing 
See the standalone HP 2020 Sustainable   Impact Report Executive Summary. 
63  Our facilities 63  Environmental, health, and   
69  Community giving and   
  volunteerism 69  HP Foundation programs 
77 Products and     solutions 
78  Advancing a circular and   
  net zero carbon economy 81  Keep products and materials   
96  Product responsibility 96  Product safety  
98  Social impact  98  Global education programs 
  safety management 
64  Greenhouse gas emissions  
71  Disaster recovery and resilience 
71  Employee volunteerism 
86  Create a net zero carbon future 
88  Design out waste and use   
  materials responsibly 
93  Regenerate natural systems  
97  Product security and privacy 
102 Healthcare 103 Inclusive design 
104 Products and solutions portfolio 
115 Appendix  
116 About this report 
118 Policies and standards 
119 Independent accountants      review report 
122 Material issues 
124 United Nations Global     Compact index 
125 United Nations Sustainable    Development Goals index 
126 Sustainability Accounting     Standards Board index 
127 Task Force on Climate-related     Financial Disclosures index 
128 WEF IBC Stakeholder Capitalism     Metrics index 
129 Global Reporting Initiative index 
135 Endnotes 
105 Personal systems 107  Home and office printing solutions 109 Large format printing 110 Industrial graphics 111 3D printing 
Letter from our President and CEO 20 YEARS OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING  
Twenty years ago, we released our first environmental and social  impact report. We did so because HP was built on the idea that  the purpose of a corporation extends far beyond profit. From our  earliest days, we have believed that, by creating technology in the  service of humanity, we can create the conditions for business and  society to thrive hand in hand.  
With each passing year, we have deepened our commitment to this  belief. As a result, we re a stronger company that is making a more  sustainable impact on the world.  
But our work is far from finished. As we look to the next 10 years,  it s clear we re entering one of the most consequential decades in  modern business history.  
A global pandemic continues to cause hardship and heartache  around the globe. A changing climate is devastating many  communities and threatening the very future of the planet we all  share. And we are facing a long-overdue reckoning with the deep  inequities and inequalities that prevent far too many people from  reaching their full potential.  
While these are stark challenges that won t be overcome quickly,  we must view them as catalysts for change. Because if we can  summon the courage and resolve needed to act in the face of  seemingly insurmountable obstacles, I know that we can and  will take ambitious leaps forward.  
At HP, our ambition is to become the world s most sustainable  and just technology company. I m proud of the work of our teams  around the world, and this report highlights the progress we are  making against our goals as well as the areas where we must   do more. 
But if we simply stay the course, we will fail to meet the magnitude  of this moment. The pace of change in the world around us is  accelerating, and so must our efforts to create the future we want  to see. 
Our new 2030 Sustainable Impact agenda is designed to propel us  forward. It stays true to HP s values, supports the United Nations  
3  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Development Goals, and prioritizes efforts where our  technology, talent, and ecosystem can have the greatest impact.  
Over the next decade, HP will stand for a new era of progress  where climate change is reversed, human rights are universally  protected, and digital equity democratizes opportunity for all.  
Climate Action 
We will drive toward a net zero carbon, fully regenerative economy  while engineering the industry s most sustainable portfolio of  products and solutions.  
We plan to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions across  the HP value chain by 2040, with a 50% reduction by the end  of this decade. We pledge to reach 75% circularity for products  and packaging by 2030. And we are committed to maintaining  zero deforestation for HP paper and paper-based packaging  and counteracting deforestation for non-HP paper used in our  products and print services. 
Human Rights 
We will create a powerful culture of diversity, equity, and inclusion  while advancing human rights, social justice, and racial and gender  equality across our ecosystem.  
By 2030, we re committed to achieving 50 50 gender equality   in HP leadership and making sure that women represent greater  than 30% of our workforce in technical and engineering roles.  Across our company, we intend to meet or exceed labor market  representation for racial and ethnic minorities. And we aim to reach  one million workers through worker empowerment programs  throughout our supply chain. 
Digital Equity 
As digital technology transforms seemingly every aspect of our  lives, there s a very real danger of more and more people getting  left behind. We cannot allow that to happen, and HP will work  to break down the digital divide that prevents too many from  accessing the education, jobs, and healthcare they need to thrive. 
Our goal is to accelerate digital equity for 150 million people by  2030. As part of these efforts, we re launching the HP Partnership  and Technology for Humanity (PATH) accelerator program,  focused on paving the way toward digital equity and inclusion in  underserved communities around the world.  
Simply put, the aggressive actions we re taking on climate, human  rights, and digital equity are the right things to do. And for anyone  who still buys into the false belief that this work comes at the  expense of profit, consider this: our Sustainable Impact agenda  helped win more than  1 billion in sales in 2020, the second  consecutive year we ve surpassed this milestone.  
The actions we re taking to address some of society s greatest  challenges will strengthen our communities while spurring  innovation and growth across our business.  
But it s going to take a lot of hard work and investment. It will  demand collaboration across the public and private sectors. And  above all else, it will require us to believe that we can rise to this  moment in ways that truly change the world for the better.  
One of our founders, Dave Packard, said it best:  The betterment  of society is not a job to be left to a few. It s a responsibility to be  shared by all.   
Ultimately, that s what motivates our more than 50,000 employees  across HP. We are united by our ambition to create technology that  inspires human progress. And we will hold ourselves accountable  for achieving the goals we have set. That is, and always will be,   the HP Way.  
Enrique Lores  President and CEO 
4  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Enrique Lores   
President and Chief Executive  
Officer, HP Inc.  
Chip Bergh   
Chairman of the Board  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
Sustainable and just Optimize cost structure Digitally powered and  
Personal Systems   Advance compute leadership   Accelerate in adjacencies 
Office and Home Printing   Modernize print   Accelerate office contractual 
  Incorporated   
  Fortune 100 company 
in the State of Delaware,  
United States  
OUR STRATEGY 
  Ticker symbol   
  Corporate headquarters  
HPQ on the New York   
Stock Exchange  
Palo Alto, California,   
United States  
Industrial Businesses   Disrupt with personalized solutions   Accelerate digital and 3D businesses 
Capitalize on IP    Unlock new sources of value  
from microfluidics  
data enabled 
  Approximately 53,000   
  HP operates in 180  
employees globally 
countries worldwide 
FISCAL YEAR 2020   
HIGHLIGHTS 
 56.6 BILLION 
in net revenue 
 4.3 BILLION 
of net cash provided by operations,   
 4.1 billion of which was returned   
to stockholders in the form of   
share repurchases and dividends 
channel partners 
 1.5 BILLION 
See our full financial performance. 
How we deliver value 
INPUTS IN 2020  
Skills, expertise, competencies,   and capabilities of HP s approximately   53,000 employees globally 
46,000 supplier factory workers engaged in   skills-building and wellbeing programs 
INTELLECTUAL 
 1.5 billion invested in R D  
Market and customer insights 
Total assets:  34.7 billion 
Long-term debt:  5.5 billion 
MANUFACTURED 
HP manufacturing plants 
100s of production suppliers 
482,119 MWh of electricity used in global   operations, including 51% renewable   electricity and attributes 
942,000 tonnes of materials in our products   and packaging 
34,200 tonnes of recycled content plastic   used in HP products and packaging 
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP 
Employee, supplier, and partner   codes of conduct and engagement 
 17.57 million in HP cash and   product contributions 
127,000 employee volunteer hours 
5  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
 Suppliers and supply chain workers 
manufacturing, final assembly,   
Customers, channel partners,   
REPAIR, REUSE,  AND RECYCLING 
reuse and recycling vendors 
 Raw materials extraction,   
repair, remanufacturing,   
SUPPLY CHAIN 
Product take-back,  
materials recycling 
Key stakeholders:   
Key stakeholders:   
transportation 
Key activities:   
Key activities:   
remarketing,   
OPERATIONS 
Key stakeholders:   HP employees and local communities 
Key activities:   Marketing, employee development   and engagement, facilities operation,   volunteerism, and giving 
Key stakeholders: Customers,   channel and retail partners,   regulators, global communities 
Key activities: R D, product design,  product stewardship, marketing, sales  and channel engagement, channel  partnerships, product delivery,  services, and support 
PRODUCTS  AND SERVICES 
VALUE CREATED IN 2020 
95% of employees feel HP values diversity 
98% of employees participated in learning and  development activities, at an average of 32 hours  per employee 
79% engagement rate among HP employees 
INTELLECTUAL 
More than 28,000 patents 
Net revenue:  56.6 billion  Net earnings:  2.8 billion  Net cash provided by operations:  4.3 billion  Share repurchases and dividends:    4.1 billion 
MANUFACTURED 
Millions of products delivered each year 
ECO Declarations covering 94% of revenue 
56% decrease in Scope 1 and 2   GHG emissions, since 2015 
5.31 million units of hardware repaired 
1.28 million units of hardware remarketed reused 
118,000 tonnes of hardware and supplies recycled 
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP 
Customer, partner, and supplier   retention and satisfaction 
Better learning outcomes for nearly 50.3 million  students and adult learners through 2020 
Improved resilience in communities   where we live, work, and do business 
Sustainable   Impact 
7  Sustainable Impact strategy  
13  United Nations Sustainable Development Goals  
14  Recognition  
15  Stakeholder engagement  
16  Governance  
16  Materiality 
6  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Supply chain responsibility Sustainable Impact Appendix Products and solutions Operations Integrity and human rights Footprint 
Sustainable Impact strategy 
In 2021, HP announced our most  
comprehensive and ambitious Sustainable  
Impact agenda yet. It connects us to the  
most defining and urgent issues of our time  
and where we can have the greatest impact. 
Our key focus areas 
7  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
  Climate Action: Drive toward a net zero  
  Human Rights: Create a powerful culture  
carbon, fully regenerative economy  
while engineering the industry s most  
sustainable portfolio of products  
and solutions. 
of diversity, equity, and inclusion. Advance  
human rights, social justice, and racial and  
gender equality across our ecosystem,  
raising the bar for all.  
Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Sustainable Impact 
Climate Action 
We aim to be the world s most sustainable  
and just technology company. To help  
us achieve this vision, we have set clear  
goals designed to support a new era of  
opportunity where climate change  
is reversed, where human rights are  
universally protected, and where digital  
equity democratizes opportunity for all.  
Circularity 
  Digital Equity: Lead in activating and  
innovating holistic solutions that break  
down the digital divide that prevents  
many from accessing the education,  
jobs, and healthcare needed to thrive.  
Drive digital inclusion to transform lives  
and communities.  
Empowered  
racial and gender  
Human Rights 
Social justice, 
Our strategy is rooted in science and is  
informed by analysis of HP Megatrends,  
materiality assessment, the United Nations  
Sustainable Development Goals and other  
external frameworks, ongoing engagement  
with stakeholders, and alignment with our  
core businesses. It prioritizes efforts where  
HP s technology, talent, and platform can do  
the most good. And most of all, it supports a  
culture shift that fully integrates Sustainable  
Impact and purpose throughout every  
aspect of our business and ecosystem.  
As companies and leaders, we know we must  
stand for more than the products we sell,  
which is why Sustainable Impact is both a  
Culture of  inclusion   
Digital Equity 
Economic opportunity 
business imperative and a key differentiator  
for HP. In 2020, for the second consecutive  
year, Sustainable Impact helped HP win more  
than  1 billion in new sales. 
Businesses that can decouple growth from  
consumption, grow through an inclusive  
culture, and offer solutions to some of the  
greatest challenges that face business and  
society will thrive in the long term. Through  
our focus on Sustainable Impact, we capitalize  
on what we do best while anticipating  
and preparing for the next wave of global  
challenges. We focus on doing the right thing,  
even when it is challenging, to deliver lasting  
value through the power of technology. 
Healthcare 
Our 2030   Sustainable Impact goals 
We are holding ourselves accountable by  
striving for some of the most comprehensive  
goals in our industry. 
8  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Climate Action 
Digital Equity 
  Reach carbon neutrality and zero waste   
  100% renewable electricity in  
  Enable better learning outcomes for   
Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Sustainable Impact 
in HP operations 
global operations 
100 million people 
Climate Action 
Human Rights 
Digital Equity 
  Achieve carbon neutrality with Supplies business  
  Reduce HP absolute value chain GHG emissions 50% 
  Reach 75% circularity for products and packaging 
  Maintain zero deforestation for HP paper and   
  Counteract deforestation for non-HP paper used in our  
  Achieve 50 50 gender equality in HP leadership 
  Achieve greater than 30% technical women and women  
  Meet or exceed labor market representation for racial  
  Maintain higher than 90% rating on internal inclusion index  
  Be universally ranked as employer of choice for  
  Reach one million workers through worker  
  Assure respect for labor-related human rights 
  Accelerate digital equity for 150 million people by 2030 
paper-based packaging 
products and print services 
in engineering  
ethnic minorities in the United States. 
for all employee demographics annually 
underrepresented groups in the technology industry 
empowerment programs  
100% of our key contracted manufacturing suppliers   and higher risk next-tier suppliers 
Climate Action 
  Achieve net zero GHG emissions across HP value chain 
Our mission  
Drive toward a net zero carbon, fully  regenerative economy while engineering  the industry s most sustainable   portfolio of products and solutions. 
How we re driving  progress  
The science is clear, and the time to act is  
now 2020 set new records for climate  
disasters, including wildfires, monsoons, and  
hurricanes. Climate change will impact all  
businesses and geographies, with lower- 
income communities and people of color  
disproportionately affected. We must change  
the way we make, deliver, and use products  
to protect nature and communities from our  
climate crisis.  
In April 2021, we set new goals that outline  
our broad plans to combat climate change,  
focused on carbon emissions, circularity,  
and forests. Our climate action strategy is  
now one of the most comprehensive in our  
industry, encompassing carbon emissions,  
circularity, and forests. We are working to  
reduce our carbon footprint across our value  
chain through ambitious science-based  
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction  
goals, investments in renewable electricity,  
supply chain collaboration, and advances in  
product energy efficiency. Learn more. 
9  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Sustainable Impact 
Climate Action 
We adhere to sustainable design principles  
and are shifting toward circular, service- 
based business models. We are keeping  
materials in use, increasing renewable and  
recycled content, and advancing materials  
and energy efficiency while continuing to  
offer and expand robust repair, reuse, and  
recycling programs. We apply our expertise,  
scale, and resources to help regenerate the  
natural systems on which we all depend.  
We have sourced more than 1.7 million  
pounds (771 tonnes) of ocean-bound plastic  
for use in our supplies and hardware and  
are collaborating within our industry and  
beyond to help grow the market for ocean- 
bound plastic. 
By sourcing certified or recycled fiber, we ve  
achieved zero deforestation for our HP brand  
paper and paper-based product packaging  
(see goal at right). We are working to address  
the fiber of non-HP paper used in HP printing  
products and services through initiatives like  
the HP Sustainable Forests Collaborative  
and are restoring, protecting, and improving  
management of over 200,000 acres of  
forest in Brazil and China. Additionally, in  
partnership with the Arbor Day Foundation,  
we planted 1 million trees in 2020 alone,  
supporting the 1t.org initiative. 
Sustainable Impact goals 
Goal Progress in 2020 UN SDGs 
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 
Use 30% postconsumer recycled content  plastic across HP s personal systems and print  product portfolio by 2025. 
Eliminate 75% of single-use plastic packaging  by 2025, compared to 2018. 
Reduce HP product use GHG emissions  intensity by 30% by 2025, compared to 2015. 
Recycle 1.2 million tonnes of hardware and  supplies by 2025, since the beginning of 2016. 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
Achieve zero deforestation associated with  HP brand paper and paper-based product  packaging by 2020. 
Reduce first-tier production supplier  and product transportation-related GHG  emissions intensity by 10% by 2025,  compared to 2015. 
Help suppliers cut 2 million tonnes of carbon  dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions between  2010 and 2025. 
OPERATIONS 
Use 100% renewable electricity in our  operations by 2025. 
Reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions  from global operations by 60% by 2025,  compared to 2015. 
Reduce potable water withdrawal in global  operations by 35% by 2025, compared to  2015, focusing on high-risk sites. 
17 HP s global operations procured and generated  243,661 MWh of renewable electricity and  attributes, equivalent to 51% of our global  electricity consumption. Learn more. 
12 Through the end of 2020, we achieved a   33% decrease. Learn more. 
During 2020, we used 27,490 tonnes of  postconsumer recycled content plastic in HP  personal systems and print products, 11% of  total plastic used. Learn more.  
Through 2020, we achieved a 19% reduction.  Learn more. 
Reached 642,300 tonnes recycled through  the end of 2020. Learn more. 
Achieved zero deforestation for 99% of HP  brand paper and paper-based product  packaging, with the remaining 1% assessed   to ensure reported fiber usage meets   HP s Sustainable Paper and Wood Policy. 
Learn more. 
Through December 2019 (the most recent  year data is available), GHG emissions  intensity decreased 3%, compared to 2015.  Learn more. 
Through 2020, suppliers avoided 1.38 million  tonnes of CO2e emissions. Learn more. 
HP s global operations produced 171,000  tonnes of Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e  emissions, 56% less than our 2015 baseline.  Learn more.  
Potable water withdrawal equaled 2,327,000  cubic meters globally, 27% less than in 2015.  Learn more. 
Our mission  
Create a powerful culture of diversity,  equity, and inclusion. Advance human  rights, social justice, and racial and  gender equality across our ecosystem,  raising the bar for all. 
How we re driving  progress  
We believe in creating a culture of inclusion,  
equality, and empowerment for our  
employees. We also believe in creating a  
platform for human rights that extends  
beyond HP, where we will strive to drive  
policy changes that fight racism, advocate  
for human rights, and advance social justice  
across the globe.  
Learn more about our specific goals  
supporting our 2030 vision. 
Through our supply chain responsibility  
program, we work to improve labor conditions  
within supplier factories, tackle industry-wide  
challenges such as forced labor and conflict  
minerals, and build essential worker and  
management skills and capabilities.  
Our investments in human capital  
development help to make HP the best place  
for employees to grow and develop. Fueled  
by the talent, diversity, and drive of our  
10  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Sustainable Impact 
Human Rights 
employees, we invest in their career growth  
and passionately support the inclusive  
culture and growth mindset on which our  
success depends. 
Beginning in 2021, every HP employee is  
encouraged to set a Sustainable Impact goal  
as part of their individual 2021 goal-setting  
process. Learn more about how we are  
driving a cultural shift. 
Fostering diversity, equity, and inclusion  
within our business and across our value  
chain is a business imperative and is  
essential to serving our global customers.  
We embed diversity, equity, and inclusion  
into everything we do. HP s Board of  
Directors is one of the most diverse of any  
U.S. technology company. We encourage our  
suppliers and business partners to commit  
to diversity, equity, and inclusion goals and  
invest in programs and partnerships that  
build the pipeline for diverse talent. We are  
committed to creating inclusive technology  
that affirms human dignity, promotes  
independence, and unleashes creativity.  
HP was built on the values of diversity and  
inclusion, fairness, and equality. As a  
company led by our values, we cannot turn  
our heads from the systemic racism millions  
of people in the United States and many  
other countries suffer daily. Our commitments  
and actions took on even greater urgency in  
the wake of George Floyd s death on May 25,  
2020, and the momentum of the Black Lives  
Matter movement. We are committed to  
embracing a culture that is not only against  
racism but is actively anti-racist, and to using  
HP s platform, technology, and resources   
as a force for positive change. We are  
implementing actions across the company  
through our diversity, equity, and inclusion  
strategies and accelerating this work  
through the HP Racial Equality and Social  
Justice Task Force (see box).  
During the year, we also held a series of  
virtual town hall meetings focused on racial  
equality for all employees, hosted by our  
CEO Enrique Lores and Chief Diversity Officer  
Lesley Slaton Brown. Learn more.  
Sustainable Impact goals 
Goal Progress in 2020 UN SDGs 
Develop skills and improve wellbeing of  500,000 factory workers by 2025, since the  beginning of 2015. 
Double factory participation 
chain sustainability programs by 2025,  compared to 2015. 
Maintain greater than 99% completion rate of  annual Integrity at HP training among active  HP employees and the Board of Directors. 
20 in our supply   
312,000 factory workers have participated  in programs since the beginning of 2015. 
Learn more. 
Factory participation increased by 13%  compared to 2015. Learn more. 
99.1% of employees, including senior  executives, completed Integrity at HP  training, as well as all members of our Board  of Directors. 
The HP Racial Equality and Social Justice  Task Force is working to identify and  execute on the biggest opportunities  we have as a company to advance  sustainable impact in racial equality. The  Task Force is driving progress toward  goals in three main areas: people,  industry, and local and national influence.   Learn more.  
See progress in Supplier diversity and  Diversity, equity, and inclusion. 
21 Learn more. 
Our mission  
Lead in activating and innovating   holistic solutions that break down the  digital divide that prevents many   from accessing the education, jobs,   and healthcare needed to thrive.   Drive digital inclusion to transform   lives and communities. 
How we re driving  progress 
Nearly half of the world s population remains  
unconnected to the Internet and locked out  
of opportunity. Closing the digital divide  
will take trillions of dollars and no one  
company can solve it alone. Yet digital equity  
is indispensable for the exercise of basic  
human rights, including access to education,  
healthcare, and economic opportunity. 
In 2021, HP set a goal to accelerate digital  
equity for 150 million people by 2030.  
Through our Partnership and Technology  
for Humanity (PATH) initiative, we aspire to  
help pave the way toward a world where  
women and girls, communities of color  
and marginalized groups, teachers and  
practitioners, and people with disabilities  
have access to the technology they need  
to ensure their voices are heard and their  
participation is equitable.  
11  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Sustainable Impact 
Digital Equity 
We will achieve this through transformative  
innovation, programs, and strategic  
investments and partnerships. For example,  
through the HP Foundation program HP LIFE,  
we increased outreach in 2020 to bring the  
free HP LIFE courses to students who had  
their learning interrupted, resulting in a more  
than 210% increase in new users from 2019.  
Through our healthcare innovations, we are  
working to increase access for underserved  
populations and accelerate production of  
critical supplies in times of disaster, as we  
did in response to COVID-19. And through  
strategic partnerships like Girl Rising, we  
are bringing new, inclusive content and  
curriculums to classrooms and educators.  
Our employees contribute time, resources,  
and skills to help build vibrant, resilient,  
healthy communities. When disasters  
strike, we are there to assist HP, our  
employees, and the HP Foundation, 
with our strategic partners, provide support  
for affected communities. In 2020, we  
supported response efforts for the wildfires  
on the U.S. West Coast and Australia, the  
earthquake in Puerto Rico, flooding in  
Indonesia, the Taal Volcano eruption in the  
Philippines, the explosion in Lebanon, and  
Hurricane Laura in the United States. 
The COVID-19 pandemic challenged us to  
implement our disaster response at a new  
level. We rapidly innovated with our partners  
and donated equipment to support remote  
teaching and learning. In addition, the HP  
Foundation contributed  3 million in grants  
to support impacted communities. We also  
deployed our bioprinting, large format, and  
3D printing technologies to support vaccine  
research and help protect first responders,  
frontline workers, and communities.  
Learn more. 
Sustainable Impact goals 
Goal Progress in 2020 UN SDGs 
Enable better learning outcomes for  100 million people by 2025, since the  beginning of 2015. 
Enroll 1 million HP LIFE users between 2016   and 2025. 
Contribute 1.5 million employee volunteering  hours by 2025 (cumulative since the  beginning of 2016). 
Contribute  100 million in HP Foundation  and employee community giving 
(cumulative since the beginning of 2016). 
23 by 2025  
Nearly 50.3 million students and adult  learners have benefited from HP s education  programs and solutions that advance  quality learning and digital literacy, and  enable better learning outcomes, since the  beginning of 2015. Learn more. 
370,000 users have enrolled in HP LIFE  courses since 2016. Learn more. 
HP employees have contributed 556,000  volunteer hours to local impact projects  through 2020. Learn more. 
Giving from the HP Foundation and  employees reached  55.12 million through  2020. Learn more. 
12  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
HP s response   to COVID-19 
The COVID-19 pandemic challenged  
businesses large and small, local and national  
governments, families, and individuals in  
ways few of us could have imagined. While  
it impacted every aspect of our business in  
2020, we worked to address the pandemic  
while continuing to drive progress toward  
our other commitments. In our response to  
the virus, the people of HP demonstrated  
how we live our values. 
Caring for our employees  and business partners 
The wellbeing of our employees and their  
families remained a top priority and in 2020  
we took a wide range of actions to keep  
people safe. As many of our employees  
switched to working from home, we  
launched initiatives that promote physical  
and mental health and work-life balance  
(in addition to many existing programs),  
including through HP Spirit and Well Beyond,  
and provided assistance with ergonomics.  
We kept employees engaged and informed  
through internal communications, weekly  
emails, and town halls. 
We helped employees manage work  
and personal responsibilities, including  
by offering flextime, part-time, leave  
Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Sustainable Impact 
of absence, and job sharing. Additional  
measures included assisting our hourly  
employees and certain contingent workers  
with continued pay and other supporting  
benefits, deferring workforce reduction  
notifications, and offering employees virtual  
office hours with our in-house medical  
doctor. To help managers continue to lead  
teams effectively while working remotely,  
we launched Manager Connection, an online  
development series.  
Recognizing the significant operational and  
financial challenges faced by our business  
partners, we launched a variety of relief  
initiatives, including short-term incentives  
and free access to cybersecurity support  
and training. 
Helping impacted  communities 
Throughout the pandemic, we have  
remained committed to supporting  
communities around the world. Together  
with nonprofit partners, we launched and  
promoted several initiatives aimed at  
supporting teachers, students, and school  
districts through a range of digital and  
printed educational resources. Learn more. 
HP and the HP Foundation contributed  
financial resources to support communities  
with critical medical supplies. To assist the  
public health response, we also donated PCs  
and printers to hospitals, and bioprinters  
to NGOs, universities, and research  
institutions to accelerate vaccine research.  
Learn more about HP s community giving  
and volunteerism. 
In 2020, we participated in the  Uniting  
Business and Governments to Recover  
Better  statement by 155 companies  
representing over 5 million employees,  
convened by The Science Based Targets  
initiative, UN Global Compact, and the We  
Mean Business coalition. The statement  
urges governments around the world to align  
their COVID-19 economic aid and recovery  
efforts with the latest climate science. 
Mobilizing our technology 
Together with the global digital  
manufacturing community, we mobilized  
HP 3D printing technology, experience,  
and production capacity to deliver critical  
medical parts to meet urgent needs.  
Items included face masks and shields,  
mask adjusters, nasal swabs, hands-free  
door openers, and respirator parts. We  
coordinated with government, health, and  
industry agencies in numerous countries  
to support a synchronized and effective  
approach. Learn more. 
By the numbers  13  million 
in corporate product giving  3 million 
in HP Foundation grants 4  million 
critical COVID-19 containment parts   
3D printed by HP and partners 
Our global network of print service providers  
also innovated to help medical teams,  
businesses, and the public combat COVID-19.  
For example, our customers used the  
capabilities of HP Latex printing to produce  
COVID-19 floor stickers to help people  
maintain a safe distance in grocery stores  
and other public settings. 
Learn more about HP s response to  
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
13  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Goal HP s contribution 
Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Sustainable Impact 
Clinicians use HP innovations from our portfolio of PC and printing solutions to personalized  3D-printed prosthetics to improve patient experiences, clinical efficiency, and access for  underserved populations. The physical health, financial wellbeing, and life balance of our  employees are also vital to our success. Our array of programs, activities, and resources help  keep employees healthy, safe, and well.  
See: Health and safety  Wellbeing  Healthcare 
HP strives to build innovative, accessible, and personalized education technology and blended  learning solutions. We partner to develop scalable models for digital inclusion and lifelong  learning and help governments create effective policies and programs. By collaborating with  organizations such as United Nations Children s Emergency Fund and the United Nations High  Commissioner for Refugees, we help provide access to quality education to marginalized and  underrepresented populations.  
See: Community giving and volunteerism  Global education programs 
HP works to recruit and develop female talent across all levels of the company and grow  the pipeline for the future. We also use our scale to influence our suppliers and partners,  encouraging them to prioritize diversity, equity, and inclusion within their own operations.   In our communities, we work to empower and support gender equality and address barriers  to full participation in society. 
See: Diversity, equity, and inclusion  Community giving and volunteerism    Global education programs 
HP is investing in energy efficiency across our product portfolio and operations and shifting  toward less GHG-intensive energy sources for our global facilities, including on- and off-  site renewable power. By 2025, we aim to use 100% renewable electricity to power our  global operations. 
See: Supply chain responsibility: Environmental impact  Our facilities 
All workers deserve fair treatment, safe working conditions, and freely chosen employment.  We forbid any forced, bonded, or indentured labor, involuntary prison labor, slavery, or  trafficking of persons within our supply chain, and have adopted a broad approach to  responsible minerals sourcing to help ensure there is no connection between the materials  used in HP products and armed violence or human rights abuses. 
See: Human rights  Supply chain responsibility  Community giving and volunteerism 
We are investing now in the disruptive technologies of the future. Our industrial graphics  solutions help drive the analog-to-digital shift, while HP 3D printing technology is helping to  transform how whole industries design, make, and distribute products, making it an engine   of the circular economy and the Fourth Industrial Revolution. 
See: Advancing a circular and net zero carbon economy  Products and solutions portfolio   Investing in R D 
HP supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and remains committed to driving progress on select goals that are closely aligned to   
our Sustainable Impact strategy. 
Goal HP s contribution 
By working closely with local partners, corporate peers, nonprofits, local governments,  and others, we tailor our approach to the unique needs of each community. We collaborate  within and across industries and support the UN SDGs, the UN Global Compact, the  Global Reporting Initiative, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board, World  Economic Forum s Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics, and other global efforts to advance  sustainable development. 
HP strives to uphold the fundamental rights and freedoms of all people. We are building a  culture that is not only against racism but is actively anti-racist, and we are committed to  using HP s platform, technology, and resources as a force for positive change. We promote  a welcoming, diverse, and inclusive culture and do not tolerate discrimination of any kind.  Through our policies, programs, and partnerships, we aim to promote social and economic  inclusion for all people across our supply chain and operations and in our communities.  
See: Human rights  Supply chain responsibility  Diversity, equity, and inclusion  Community  giving and volunteerism 
Through contributions from HP, the HP Foundation, and our global employees, we aim to  make a positive impact on the communities where we live, work, and do business. We  provide financial support for communities affected by natural disasters and emergencies,  and work with expert partners to speed recovery and reconnect vital networks. HP employees  also contribute their talents, passions, and resources to support inclusive, safe, resilient,   and sustainable communities worldwide.  
See: Community giving and volunteerism  3D printing 
HP aims to develop products and solutions that keep materials in use at their highest state of  value for the longest possible time, grow the market for recycled content, invest in recycling  infrastructure, and offer robust repair, reuse, and recycling programs. We are investing  in disruptive technologies such as 3D printing that will help drive a more sustainable and  inclusive Fourth Industrial Revolution.  
See: Advancing a circular and net zero carbon economy  Products and solutions portfolio 
We are reducing our impact by setting targets validated by the Science Based Targets  initiative for our Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions. We work with our suppliers and partners  and encourage them to set their own goals and to use renewable energy, and we continue  to support coordinated global action to combat climate change, including action in line with  Paris Climate Accord commitments.  
See: Footprint  Supply chain responsibility: Environmental impact: GHG emissions    Our facilities: GHG emissions  Advancing a circular and net zero carbon economy 
See: Stakeholder engagement  Human rights  Supply chain responsibility  Diversity, equity,  and inclusion  Community giving and volunteerism  Global education programs 
Recognition 
HP is recognized as one of the world s most sustainable companies. 
   World s Most Ethical Companies  and  Ethisphere  names and marks are registered trademarks of Ethisphere LLC. 
14  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Sustainable Impact 
Named for the 6th year in a row to  this list of the 100 Most Sustainable  Corporations in the World 
Named  1 on Newsweek s list for   the 2nd year in a row 
Rated among the top companies   for corporate social responsibility for  the 11th time in a row 
Ranked among the top 3 ICT  (information and communications  technology) companies on the 2020  Corporate Human Rights Benchmark 
Ranked 2nd on the 2020 benchmark   of ICT companies committed to  address human rights issues within  their supply chains 
Received award for efforts to address  challenge of ocean-bound plastics 
Included in the 2020 Top Veteran- Friendly Companies list 
Lorem ipsum 
One of the 2021 World s Most   Ethical Companies  
Listed on the Dow Jones World Index  for the 9th time in a row 
Ranked 8th out of 100 ICT  companies on the 2020 Digital  Inclusion Benchmark 
Recognized for ongoing   commitment to product energy  efficiency for the 4th year in a row  (2nd for Sustained Excellence) 
Included on the FTSE4Good Index  every year since 2003 
Recognized as a top company  for diversity and inclusion  management performance 
100% score on the Disability Equality  Index as a Best Place to Work for  Disability Inclusion for the 5th year   in a row 
Excellence Award Recipient 
Only technology company globally to  receive a triple  A  rating across CDP s  Climate, Forests, and Water lists and  Supplier Engagement Leaderboard 
Placed 1st among technology companies  and 3rd overall 
Recognized for efforts to advance  diversity and inclusion for the 5th year   in a row 
Received SmartWay Excellence Award  for the 9th time overall (7th year in  a row) 
Named to Forbes list for the 3rd year   in a row  
Received a score of 100% on the Human  Rights Campaign 2021 Corporate  Equality Index for LGBTQ Equality 
Named a Top 50 Employer by   Women Engineer Magazine 
Stakeholder engagement 
We gain valuable insight through our   
regular engagement with a range   
of stakeholders including employees,  
investors, suppliers, customers, peer  
companies, public policymakers, industry  
bodies, nongovernmental organizations  
(NGOs), sector experts, and others. These  
interactions build our collective intelligence,  
help us prioritize critical issues, and   
provide insights on emerging opportunities  
and risks. 
Our materiality assessment process is deeply  
informed by stakeholder engagement. In  
2019, interviews with a wide range of internal  
and external stakeholders and the results of  
an employee survey with more than 1,400  
responses contributed to the analysis.  
Learn more. 
Individual functions across the company drive  
our decentralized approach, engaging in ways  
that are most relevant to their objectives  
and operations. These include partnerships,  
sponsorships, collaboration on industry  
initiatives, customer and supplier education,  
supplier capability-building programs,  
supplier audits and assessments, conference  
participation, employee surveys, mentoring,  
and more. Appropriate stakeholders are  
15  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Sustainable Impact 
identified based on factors such as expertise,  
willingness to collaborate, reputation,  
location, sphere of influence, and ability to  
scale and accelerate progress.  
Examples include:  
  Circular economy: Through the Ellen  
  Climate change: We engage in initiatives  
MacArthur Foundation Circular Economy  
100, we collaborate to drive progress  
toward a more circular materials- and  
energy-efficient future, including by  
using the Circulytics tool to assess our  
own performance. See Advancing a  
circular and net zero carbon economy   
Regenerate natural systems  Products  
and solutions portfolio.  
focused on increasing support for clean  
energy and combating climate change,  
including Renewable Energy Buyers  
Alliance, RE100, EV100, CDP Supply Chain,  
World Wildlife Fund s (WWF) Climate  
Business Network, We Are Still In (Paris  
Agreement), Business Ambition for 1.5 C,  
and the C2ES Climate Innovation 2050  
statement. See Footprint  Supply chain  
responsibility: Environmental impact   
Our facilities  and Create a net zero  
carbon future. 
  Data and product security: HP  
  Diversity, equity, and inclusion: We  
  Human rights: We engage in multi- 
participates in cybersecurity organizations,  
boards, and or advisory boards, including  
IEEE, ISA, ISACA, (ISC)2, ISSA, NIST, SANS.  
See Cybersecurity. 
partner with UN Women and Girl Rising  
to advance education for women and  
girls, and Historically Black Colleges  
and Universities, National Society of  
Black Engineers, and others to increase  
opportunities for diverse talent. We  
also support Human Rights Campaign s  
Business Coalition for the Equality Act  
related to LGBTQ  workplace rights and  
the United Nations Human Rights Office  
Standards of Conduct for Business. See  
Diversity, equity, and inclusion. 
stakeholder collaborations, including  
the Responsible Business Alliance,  
the Leadership Group for Responsible  
Recruitment, and the Advisory Board  
of Social Accountability International,  
to advance progress in this area. See  
Human rights and the HP 2020 Human  
Rights Update. 
  Paper and printed material: We engage  
  Privacy: Our privacy and government  
  Sustainable product design: We  
through the HP Sustainable Forests  
Collaborative to protect, restore, and  
improve responsible management of  
forests (among other objectives), and  
work with WWF s Global Forest   Trade  
Network-North America (GFTN-NA), the  
Forest Stewardship Council , and our  
suppliers to ensure the fiber we use is  
responsibly sourced. See Regenerate  
natural systems and Paper and  
forestry products. 
relations teams work with policymakers  
to support robust and globally  
interoperable privacy and data protection  
regulations. See Government relations. 
share our leading practices across the  
industry, including by contributing to  
standards development that impact  
product sustainability. HP serves on the  
EPEAT  Advisory Council and helped  
lead the working group to revise IEEE  
1680.1, the standard used by EPEAT  
for PCs and displays that took effect in  
2018. See Product certifications and  
other information. 
Many other examples of HP s stakeholder  
engagement are included throughout  
this report. 
16  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
  Sourcing and supply chain labor  
  Transparency and reporting: HP has  
practices: HP takes a leading role through  
collaborations such as Responsible  
Business Alliance, CDP Supply Chain,  
Responsible Labor Initiative, and  
Responsible Minerals Initiative to elevate  
supply chain best practices and tackle  
shared challenges. See Supply chain  
responsibility: External collaboration. 
been producing a public sustainability  
report for 20 years and was the first  
global IT company to publish its full  
carbon footprint and set carbon emissions  
reduction goals for its full value chain.  
To advance disclosure within and across  
industries, we support numerous  
reporting frameworks and initiatives,  
such as the UN SDGs, the UN Global  
Compact, the Global Reporting Initiative  
(GRI), the Sustainability Accounting  
Standards Board, and World Economic  
Forum s Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics.  
See Appendix. 
Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Sustainable Impact 
Governance 
We embed Sustainable Impact at all levels   
of the company.  
Our executive leadership team, led by  
our CEO, retains overall responsibility for  
Sustainable Impact as part of our business  
strategy. All members of the executive  
leadership team oversee Sustainable Impact  
targets relevant to their organizations and  
are evaluated annually against objectives  
related to Sustainable Impact, including  
climate change and diversity, equity, and  
inclusion. Performance against these  
and other business objectives is tied to  
total compensation. 
The HP Board of Directors  Nominating,  
Governance and Social Responsibility (NGSR)  
Committee oversees the company s policies  
and programs relating to global citizenship  
and the impact of HP s operations  provides  
guidance and recommendations to the   
Board on legal, regulatory, and compliance  
matters relating to political, environmental,  
global citizenship, and public policy   
trends  and reviews the annual Sustainable  
Impact Report. The Committee receives  
regular updates on Sustainable Impact  
strategy, metrics, results, and key risks and  
opportunities. The NGSR Committee provides  
guidance, and in some cases approval, on  
strategic priorities and investments.  
The performance and compensation of both  
our Chief Sustainability and Social Impact  
Officer and our VP   Head of Sustainable  
Impact Operations and Compliance are  
directly associated with the management of  
HP Sustainable Impact and the achievement  
of related targets and metrics, both  
public and internal. Several other HP VPs,  
directors, and managers have a component  
of total compensation (salary and bonus)  
based on responsibility for, and effective  
implementation of, corporate initiatives to  
address climate change, human rights, and  
digital inclusion. Beginning in 2021, every HP  
employee is encouraged to set a Sustainable  
Impact goal as part of their individual 2021  
goal-setting process. Learn more.  
Representatives within each of HP s  
businesses Personal Systems and  
Printing manage and drive Sustainable  
Impact strategies and report progress  
to executive leadership. The Sustainable  
Impact Steering Committee, composed of  
representatives from across HP s business  
units and global functions, provides  
additional oversight and helps manage  
progress against our goals.  
Materiality 
We periodically conduct materiality  
assessments to review relevant  
environmental, social, and governance  
issues, reconfirm our long-standing  
areas of focus, and clarify and shape our  
Sustainable Impact strategy, investments,  
and disclosure. This enables us to focus our  
efforts in the areas where we can have the  
greatest positive impact, determine any  
gaps in our approach, and identify relevant  
trends and leadership opportunities for our  
business. We have set aggressive goals  
related to several of our most material  
issues, to manage performance and drive  
long-term progress. Materiality assessment  
informs our goals-setting process. 
In 2019, we engaged SustainAbility, an  
ERM Group company, to conduct our most  
recent materiality assessment. It refined our  
process from prior years to further integrate  
the perspectives of customers, investors,  
and our business leaders, and to better  
reflect business risks and opportunities.  
Learn more about our approach, key  
findings, and prominent themes in the   
HP 2019 Sustainable Impact Report.  
Materiality matrix  
The matrix resulting from our 2019 materiality  
assessment maps issues by relative  
importance to sustainable development  
and to HP s business success. Issues above  
the diagonal are considered material for  
the purpose of this report. Items below the  
materiality threshold are not covered in as  
much detail, but remain important to HP.  
Our material issues list includes definitions,  
corresponding GRI Standards Topics, and the  
boundary of each Topic. 
17  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Sustainable Impact 
Relative importance to sustainable development High Low 
Relative importance to HP s business success High Low 
Public policy 
   Planet     Community 
   People     Governance 
Operational waste 
Transparency and reporting 
Diversity and inclusion 
HP 2019 materiality matrix 
Community investment  and involvement 
Climate change 
Role of IT in society 
Circular  economy 
Human capital 
Paper and printed materials 
Human rights 
Corporate governance 
Sourcing and supply  chain labor practices 
Product  energy e iciency 
Ethics and  anti-corruption 
Data and product security 
Energy use and GHG emissions 
Product and operational health and safety 
19  Carbon and climate impact  
18  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Appendix Products and solutions Operations Integrity and human rights Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint 
GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTION GOALS  
In April 2021, we launched new and  more aggressive goals in this area: 
The manufacturing, delivery, and use  
of HP products and solutions requires a  
substantial amount of natural resources and  
energy use. Our carbon and water footprints  
cover our entire global value chain, from  
suppliers 2 to our operations and millions  
19  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
of customers worldwide. We have been  
producing a public sustainability report  
for 20 years and were the first global IT  
company to publish a full carbon footprint  
and one of the first to disclose a complete  
water footprint. We continue to measure and  
manage our environmental footprint across  
  Achieve net zero GHG emissions  
  Reduce HP value chain GHG emissions  
  Reach carbon neutrality in HP  
across HP value chain by 2040,  beginning with our Supplies business  achieving carbon neutrality by 2030.  
50% by 2030. 1  
operations by 2025.  
Sustainable Impact Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Footprint 
Science Based Targets initiative, including  
1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 GHG emissions  
reduction goals have been validated by the  
classification of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG  
emissions target as consistent with levels  
required to keep global warming to 1.5 C.  
We also provide suppliers incentives to set  
and meet their own goals. The environmental  
criteria we use for supplier management  
include science-based GHG emissions  
reduction targets and third-party verification  
of GHG emissions. To extend our influence  
within and beyond our industry, we join  
leading companies in GHG emissions  
goal-setting and reduction efforts, including  
the value chain, always pursuing areas  
for improvement. 
Climate change is a global threat whose  
impact will be felt by those most vulnerable  
and least responsible for its causes. The  
science is clear and the need to act is more  
urgent than ever. The decisions we make as a  
society during this critical decade will impact  
our trajectory throughout the 21st century  
and beyond. 
The role of business is essential. Transforming  
HP to drive a more efficient, circular, and zero  
carbon economy addresses the imperatives  
presented by climate change and is central to  
our Sustainable Impact strategy. We have set  
ambitious greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  
reduction goals across the value chain to drive  
progress and the shift toward an equitable  
net zero carbon economy. Our 2025 Scope  
Carbon emissions and   climate impact  
Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance, RE100,  
CDP Supply Chain, and WWF Climate  
Business Network. 
To more fully meet the needs of investors  
and other stakeholders, this year we added  
We strive to reduce the climate impact of  
our supply chain, operations, and products  
and solutions. HP s carbon footprint in 2020  
equaled 44,890,100 tonnes of carbon dioxide  
equivalent (CO2e), 4% less than in 2019. A  
13% decrease in GHG emissions associated  
with product use more than offset a 5%  
increase related to product manufacturing,  
driven in part by the impact of COVID-19 on  
sales of different product lines, particularly  
CDP triple  A  rating and supplier engagement leadership  
HP has achieved a triple  A  rating for transparency and action on climate, forests, and  
water for the second year in a row, and has also been recognized as a CDP Supplier  
Engagement leader. We were named to the CDP Climate  A  list for the seventh year  
in a row for our actions to cut emissions, mitigate climate risk, and develop the net  
zero carbon economy. For the third time, we achieved an  A  rating for our initiatives  
to address water security and forest commodity risk. Our inclusion on the CDP  
Supplier Engagement Leaderboard is for the fifth consecutive year. Learn more. 
a Task Force on Climate-related Financial  
Disclosures index to this report. It contains  
links to detailed disclosures throughout  
this report and in our CDP submissions in  
the categories Governance, Strategy, Risk  
management, and Metrics and targets. 
business growth in personal systems.  
Decreases in emissions related to product  
transportation 1 (9%), commercial travel  
(71%), employees commuting (50%), and  
facilities (20%) also contributed. 
While GHG emissions from our operations  
only represent 1% of our footprint, we work  
to demonstrate leadership in emissions  
management, reduction, and disclosure.  
  In 2020, HP brand paper comprised 7% of the paper used in HP printers. 
See also:  
20  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
  Description of our methodology in the   
  Full list of our GHG emissions reduction  
  Full carbon footprint data for 2016 2020.  
  GHG emissions reduction initiatives across  
  Task Force on Climate-related Financial  
  HP CDP Climate Change response.  
Materials extraction through manufacturing 
and Products and solutions.  
HP carbon accounting manual.  
goals and progress. 
our business: Supply chain, Our facilities,  
Disclosures index.  
26,400,000 
Sustainable Impact Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Footprint 
Print  4,700,000 
Personal systems  21,700,000 
Products and solutions (35%) Operations (1%) Supply chain (64%) 
100,000 100,000 2,100,000 
Capital goods 
Personal systems 1,900,000 
Upstream energy production 
Print 200,000 
Transport Facilities Transportation fleet 
a reduction in indirect water consumption  
from electricity generation and paper  
production associated with HP product use.  
Product use phase reductions were driven  
Many parts of the world grapple with the  
availability and quality of water, and HP  
is committed to calculating, disclosing,  
and reducing water use across our global  
value chain. In 2020, our water footprint  
equaled 209,097,000 cubic meters, 11%  
less than 2019. 
147,000 24,000 20,000 100,000 
HP carbon footprint, 2020 
44,890,100 tonnes CO2e  
1 This resulted primarily from  
Business travel Employee commuting 
by improved energy efficiency, use patterns  
including duplexing rates and print volumes,  
and a shift toward smaller form factor  
desktops. To a lesser degree, our smaller  
water footprint also reflected decreased  
water consumption in our supply chain both  
in direct use and indirect use associated with  
the generation of electricity. (see Create a  
net zero carbon future).  
15,800,000 
Product use Product end of service 
Paper use in HP printers  5,000,000 
Print (electricity) 2,000,000 
Personal systems (electricity)  8,800,000 
Buildings leased to others 
Investments 
Although water withdrawal in operations  
only represents 2% of our footprint, we   
have direct control over those activities.  
We work to minimize water withdrawal  
within our facilities and demonstrate strong  
practice for others in the industry and  
beyond. During 2020, we expanded our  
reporting to include water withdrawal in  
water-stressed locations.  
See also:  
  Description of our methodology in the   
  Full water footprint data for 2016 2020.  
  Water use reduction initiatives across our  
  HP CDP Water Security response.  
Products and solutions.  
HP water accounting manual.  
business: Supply chain, Our facilities, and  
Carbon footprint (Scopes 1 3)  
21  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
GHG emissions from operations   [tonnes CO2e] 328,400 249,200 229,600 215,800 171,000 
GHG emissions intensity    [tonnes CO2e     million of net revenue] 
GHG emissions by scope [tonnes CO2e] 
Americas 174,500 54,700 51,500 49,600 41,000 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 60,900 65,700 66,200 57,900 48,100 
Asia Pacific and Japan 93,000 128,800 111,900 108,300 81,900 
Scope 1 emissions, by region 60,700 66,200 65,900 61,900 50,600 
Scope 1 emissions, by type 
Americas 48,700 52,000 48,800 47,100 39,400 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 10,100 13,100 15,300 13,400 10,600 
Asia Pacific and Japan 1,900 1,100 1,800 1,400 600 
Natural gas 28,100 29,400 29,300 23,800 21,400 
Diesel gas oil LPG     200 400 100 200 300 
Transportation fleet  29,600 31,400 32,200 33,300 24,000 
Sustainable Impact Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Footprint 
Americas 22,600 23,500 22,200 20,500 19,300 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 3,900 5,300 5,700 2,200 1,800 
Asia Pacific and Japan 1,600 600 1,400 1,100 300 
Americas 200 200 100 200 200 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 0 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 200 0 0 100 
Americas 23,200 23,700 22,700 22,800 17,000 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 6,100 7,400 9,100 10,200 6,800 
Asia Pacific and Japan 300 300 400 300 200 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
6.8 4.8 3.9 3.7 3.0 
Scope 2 (market-based method)     
Scope 2 emissions, by region 267,700 183,000 163,700 153,900 120,400 
Scope 2 emissions, by type 267,700 183,000 163,700 153,900 120,400 
Refrigerants (hydrofluorocarbons  (HFCs))  ,     
Perfluorocarbons (PFCs)    2,700 4,600 3,700 3,500 2,800 
Carbon dioxide (CO2)          57,100 45,700 
Nitrous oxide (N2O)          200 0 
Methane (CH4)          100 0 
Americas 125,800 2,700 2,700 2,500 1,600 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 50,800 52,600 50,900 44,500 37,500 
Asia Pacific and Japan 91,100 127,700 110,100 106,900 81,300 
Purchased electricity for operations 267,700 182,100 162,400 152,900 119,600 
District cooling and heating (purchased)  for operations 
Americas 0 0 100 100 100 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 100 400 500 1,000 2,000 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 0 
Americas 2,700 4,600 3,700 3,500 2,800 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 0 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 0 
Americas 125,800 2,700 2,700 2,500 1,600 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 50,800 52,600 50,900 44,500 37,500 
Asia Pacific and Japan 91,100 126,800 108,800 105,900 80,500 
Americas 0 0 0 0 0 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 0 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 900 1,300 1,000 800 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
100 400 600 1,100 2,100 
0 900 1,300 1,000 800 
22  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Scope 2 (location-based method) 
Scope 3  [tonnes CO2e]  35,860,000 40,770,000 44,470,000 46,570,000 44,720,000 
Scope 2 emissions, by region 221,000 265,100 252,300 226,400 203,600 
Scope 2 emissions, by type 221,000 265,100 252,300 226,400 203,600 
Materials extraction through  Manufacturing   (category 1  also see  Greenhouse gas emissions on page 44) 
Capital goods (category 2)  200,000 200,000 200,000 300,000  100,000  
Upstream energy production  (category 3)     
Transport (categories 4 and 9  also see  Product transportation on page 45)     
Waste generated in operations (category 5)  De  
Business travel (category 6)   60,000 70,000 70,000 70,000 20,000 
Employee commuting (category 7)  200,000 200,000 200,000 200,000 100,000 
Upstream leased assets (category 8)    N A N A N A N A N A 
Processing of sold products (category 10)  N A N A N A N A N A 
Purchased electricity for operations 221,000 264,200 251,000 225,400 202,800 
District cooling and heating (purchased  steam) for operations 
Sustainable Impact Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Footprint 
Americas 90,900 80,000 71,600 67,100 60,700 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 39,000 69,300 61,600 48,300 44,900 
Asia Pacific and Japan 91,100 115,800 119,100 111,000 98,000 
Americas 90,900 80,000 71,600 67,100 60,700 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 39,000 69,300 61,600 48,300 44,900 
Asia Pacific and Japan 91,100 114,900 117,800 110,000 97,200 
Americas 0 0 0 0 0 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 0 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 900 1,300 1,000 800 
14,700,000 16,500,000 18,600,000 25,200,000 26,400,000  
minimis       
1,300,000 1,500,000 1,800,000 2,300,000 2,100,000 
100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
0 900 1,300 1,000 800 
De minimis  De minimis De minimis De minimis 
    For 2016, we calculated ozone-depleting substances emissions by tracking sites that reported refrigerant replacement due  
     The total for 2019 of refrigerants, PFCs, CO2, N2O, and CH4 varies by less than 1% from Scope 1 emissions, by region, due   
     Data in this section uses the market-based method. Due to the availability and feasibility of acquiring the data, the company  
    Total includes HP s reported values for Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based method emissions in table. 
     Emissions-intensity values were calculated using HP s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and Scope 1 and  
      HP does not estimate or extrapolate diesel use for nonreporting sites.  
    CO2e emissions associated with CH4 and N2O account for less than 1% of total CO2e emissions in this category,  
    To calculate Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 emissions, HP has followed the principles outlined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.  Additional details on calculations and methodology can be found in the HP carbon accounting manual. HP selected 2015 as its  baseline because it provided a year-over-year comparison for HP Inc. when it first reported as a separate company for 2016  following the separation of Hewlett Packard Company in November 2015. 2015 continues to serve as base year for several HP  goals as well. Scope 1 GHG emissions include CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, and PFCs. No biogenic emissions are present in this category.  Scope 2 GHG emissions include CO2, CH4, and N2O. No biogenic emissions are present in this category. Scope 3 GHG emissions:  
to leakage, and applied an intensity factor (based on those actual quantities) for nonreporting sites. For 2017, HP transitioned  to a system that tracks all refrigerant work orders company-wide, directly accounting for facilities  refrigerant leakage and  use and eliminating the need for extrapolation. We use various tools and sources for global warming potential and ozone  depletion values including the Greenhouse Gas Protocol s GHG Emissions from Refrigeration and Air Conditioning tool, IPCC  Second Assessment Report (1995). 
to rounding. 
only obtained supplier-specific emission rates for its sites in Boise, Idaho  Indianapolis, Indiana  and Palo Alto and San  Bernardino, California, United States. 
  Capital goods (Category 2), Waste generated in operations (Category 5), and Upstream leased assets (Category 8) include  
  Upstream energy production (Category 3) includes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, and PFCs, and represented 0.1% of our Scope 3  
  Business travel (Category 6) includes CO2, CH4, and N2O, and represented 0.1% of our Scope 3 emissions in 2020.  
  Employee commuting (Category 7), Buildings leased to others (Category 13), and Investments (Category 15) include CO2,  
  Processing of sold products (Category 10) is de minimis. 
  Franchises (Category 14) is not applicable. 
Scope 2 GHG emissions.  
  Materials extraction through manufacturing (Category 1), Transport (Categories 4 and 9), Product use (Category 11), and  
Product end of service (Category 12) include CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, and NF3, and represented approximately 99%  of our Scope 3 emissions in 2020. Biogenic emissions are present and captured in the life cycle assessment of paper  consumed during customer printer use (Category 11).  
CO2, CH4, N2O, and HFCs, and represented 0.3% of our Scope 3 emissions in 2020.  
emissions in 2020.  
and represented 0.3% of our Scope 3 emissions in 2020.  
Product use (category 11) ,    19,300,000 22,000,000 23,300,000 18,200,000 15,800,000 
Product end of service (category 12)       De minimis 200,000 200,000 200,000  100,000  
Buildings leased to others (category 13)  De minimis  De minimis  De minimis De minimis De minimis 
Franchises (category 14)  N A  N A  N A  N A  N A  
Investments (category 15)  De minimis  De minimis  De minimis De minimis De minimis 
Energy use       11,600,000 10,800,000 
Paper use in HP printers           6,600,000 5,000,000 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
    See additional detail about GHG emissions from product use. Data from 2017 2020 better reflect average laser printer paper  usage. This represented the majority of the increase compared to 2016. 
     HP updated its calculation methodology in 2020 to account for emissions associated with print supplies in Category 1  
      Scope 2 GHG emissions used to calculate this category were determined using the location-based method. 
       These product transportation data are based on product life cycle assessment (LCA)-based estimates. They use a  
       De minimis values are less than 0.25% of total Scope 3 emissions. 
    HP s global travel agency provides values that take into account the type of aircraft, passenger load, cabin class, and miles  
     All facilities are accounted for in Scope 1 and 2. Leased furniture and equipment are included in capital goods (Category 2). 
      HP updated its calculation methodology in 2020 for printing-related product use phase GHG emissions, to more accurately  
      In 2020, HP paper comprised 7% of the paper used in HP printers. 
       HP changed its calculation methodology beginning in 2017 to avoid netted emissions from product recycling. 
23  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
instead of Category 11 (as previously). We restated 2019 data using the updated methodology, for comparability. 
combination of HP-specific and industry data, and include additional upstream and downstream transport related to our  products. This data may differ from data reported by product transportation suppliers that HP contracts to deliver our  products, as presented on pages 46 and 53. The decrease from 2019 to 2020 resulted from reduced shipments of  imaging and printing devices and, despite a greater volume, a lighter average weight of personal systems devices. 2020  data do not fully reflect the increase in air freight shipments due to COVID-19. HP is updating its product LCA tools to more  fully reflect product transport mode shifts and supplier GHG emissions. 
traveled for each ticketed trip. This data also includes rail travel carrier and distance traveled. Although these values fall  below our quantitative reporting threshold of 0.25% of total Scope 3 emissions and could be reported as de minimis, we  choose to report this category due to our ability to directly track this data, our level of influence over these emissions, and  stakeholder expectations in this category. 
reflect energy-related emissions and paper consumption, to use a more accurate GHG emissions conversion factor for  paper, and to account for emissions associated with print supplies in Category 1 instead of Category 11 (as previously).  We restated 2019 data using the updated methodology, for comparability. Total GHG emissions from product use in 2017  and 2018 differ by less than 1%, and for 2019 by less than 1.5%, from the values reported on page 113, due to rounding.  Scope 3 emissions from inkjet and LaserJet printers that HP manufactures for sale and service by other original equipment  manufacturers are excluded from our carbon footprint. In 2020, these printers represented less than 3.7% of HP printers  manufactured in the reporting year and consequently, their associated emissions represented less than 4.9 % of the  product life cycle emissions of all HP manufactured printers. Scope 1 and 2 emissions from the manufacturing of these  printers at HP operated facilities is captured in the Scope 1 and 2 data reported in this year s report.  
Sustainable Impact Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Footprint 
Water footprint  
     This data was updated compared to data reported in the HP 2019 Sustainable Impact Report due to a restatement of energy  
      HP updated its calculation methodology in 2020, to more accurately reflect printing-related energy use. We restated 2019  
     HP updated its calculation methodology in 2020 to more accurately reflect paper consumption. We restated 2019 data  
    Additional details on calculations and methodology can be found in the HP water accounting manual. 
    This metric reports the amount of water consumed by HP s multi-tier supply chain, and not the amount withdrawn by first-tier  
Water consumption in HP supply  chain direct use in operations    [cubic meters]  
Water consumption in HP supply chain  associated with the generation of  electricity [cubic meters]  
Water withdrawal in HP operations   [cubic meters] 
Water withdrawal associated with   the generation of electricity used in   HP operations [cubic meters] 
Water consumption associated with   the generation of electricity used by   HP products     [cubic meters] 
Water consumption associated with   the manufacturing of paper used by   HP customers with HP products        [cubic meters]  
suppliers as reported on page 53. Because water withdrawn can also be returned, water consumption is inherently lower. 
use in our facilities. See note    on page 76 (left column) for detail. 
data using the updated methodology, for comparability. Indirect water consumption from inkjet and LaserJet printers that  HP manufactures for sale and service by other original equipment manufacturers is excluded from our water footprint.  In 2020, these printers represented less than 3.7% of HP printers manufactured in the reporting year and consequently,  their associated indirect water consumption during product use represented less than 5.2% of the product life cycle water  consumption of all HP manufactured printers. Water consumption from the manufacturing of these printers at HP operated  facilities is captured in the direct water consumption data reported in this year s report.  
using the updated methodology, for comparability.  
103,300,000 96,400,000 106,100,000 103,600,000 97,600,000 
52,900,000 84,900,000 88,700,000 74,400,000 55,600,000 
31,800,000 34,300,000 38,400,000 38,600,000  37,100,000 
12,600,000 13,400,000 15,000,000 15,100,000  14,100,000 
2,600,000 2,800,000 2,600,000  2,300,000     2,100,000 
3,534,000 3,243,000 3,406,000 2,930,000  2,597,000 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
Integrity and   human rights 
25 Ethics and anti-corruption  
27 Human rights  
30 Privacy  
33 Government relations 
24  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Appendix Products and solutions Operations Footprint Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights 
our employee code of conduct covers key  
policies, procedures, and high-risk issues  
that employees might face, and incorporates  
scenarios based on actual investigations.  
Each year, HP requires all employees to  
complete this training, including content on  
Ethics and anti-corruption 
We expect everyone at HP to meet the  
highest ethical standards and to treat others  
with integrity, respect, fairness, and equity.   
A strong commitment to our values  
underpins our efforts, reinforced by in- 
depth training and communication, and  
upheld through targeted policies and strong  
governance. HP is committed to complying  
with all applicable laws and regulations  
everywhere we operate. We require ethical  
conduct by our suppliers and partners, and  
use our scale and influence to drive progress  
across the broader IT industry. See Human  
Training and  communication  
The annual training on Integrity at HP   
anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, accurate  
business records, and anti-retaliation.  
Additionally, the training includes manager- 
specific content to ensure that managers are  
aware of their responsibilities in reinforcing  
25  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
rights and Supply Chain Responsibility. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights 
HP s commitment to ethical behavior. During  
2020, all members of HP s Board of Directors  
received Integrity at HP content relevant  
to their position and certified that they had  
Regular training, newsletters, and coffee talks  
help to reinforce the values and content  
outlined in Integrity at HP. Employees can also  
access Integrity Central, a comprehensive  
library of ready-to-use collateral on key ethics  
topics, with toolkits, posters, infographics,  
training materials, and scenarios. In 2020, the  
Ethics Office continued to expand the content  
available in Integrity Central, growing the  
library of translated training courses, videos,  
posters, and infographics. The Ethics and  
Compliance Office also recognized one Ethics  
Champion during the year an employee  
who showed outstanding ethical leadership  
and modeled HP values.  
of annual Integrity at HP training among active  
HP employees and the Board of Directors 
PROGRESS IN 2020  99.1% 
all members of the Board of Directors  1 
ETHICS TRAINING GOAL 
Maintain greater than 99% completion rate   
of employees, including senior executives,  
completed Integrity at HP training, as well as   
See Governance information online, including the board s composition, committees, and  
charters, as well as our company bylaws and Corporate Governance Guidelines. 
Board of Directors Audit Committee  
Provides non-executive input and guidance  to the Ethics and Compliance Office. 
The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing ethics and compliance at HP.   Chip Bergh is the Chairman. All members are independent directors,   excluding Enrique Lores, President and Chief Executive Officer, HP Inc. 
Specific responsibilities include oversight of Integrity at HP, coordination of   the company s Compliance Assessment Program, management of   anti-corruption and privacy, and the design and management of processes   that prevent, mitigate, and remediate all related business impacts. 
Manages ethical issues across our global operations.  
Ethics and compliance governance at HP 
Ethics and Compliance Office   (within Global Legal Affairs) 
Board of Directors  
Ethics and Compliance Committee  
Composed of HP executives, and provides   oversight and guidance on the   design and implementation of our   ethics and compliance program. 
In 2021, for the second consecutive year, HP was named  one of the World s Most Ethical Companies   by the  Ethisphere Institute. The in-depth assessment includes  more than 200 data points on culture, environmental   and social practices, ethics and compliance activities,  governance, diversity, and initiatives to support a strong value chain. This recognition  validates HP s commitment to people, planet, and community, and its practice of  
always putting integrity first. It demonstrates that conducting business with integrity  is central to HP s culture.  
At HP, we believe that good ethics is good business. Ethisphere has found that  companies awarded the World s Most Ethical Companies designation have, on  average, outperformed the market. 
   World s Most Ethical Companies  and  Ethisphere  names and marks are registered trademarks of Ethisphere LLC. 
Reporting concerns  
We make it easy for our employees and  
third parties to ask questions and report  
ethics concerns about the broad range of  
environmental, social, and governance  
issues. Reporting avenues include an online  
form, global in-country 24-hour toll-free  
phone lines with translation, text messaging  
(in the United States), mail, or in person. We  
offer anonymous reporting options where  
allowed by law. At any time, employees can  
also reach out to their manager or another  
leader under HP s Open Door Policy, seek  
advice from internal ethics and compliance  
experts, or consult Internal Audit, Human  
Resources, local Integrity at HP teams, or  
26  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights 
Integrity at HP liaisons. HP does not tolerate  
retaliation against anyone who raises a  
concern or question.  
In 2019, HP launched a new ethics case  
reporting and management tool that  
provides centralized and automated case  
workflow, greater visibility to live data, and  
opportunities to interact with the Ethics and  
Compliance Office s Integrity investigations  
team where appropriate. In January 2020,  
this tool and its enhanced reporting methods  
became the main mechanism for employees  
and third parties to report integrity concerns  
within HP. We informed employees about  
these changes through a global  Speak Up,  
Listen Up  communications campaign. 
Total number of reported items in 2020: 153 
  Includes allegations of commercial bribery, kickbacks,   and Global Business Amenities Policy violations, as well as  alleged corruption related to foreign public officials. 
Investigating concerns  
Suspected violations of Integrity at HP  
damage trust in our company. We take all  
alleged violations seriously, respond quickly,  
and take disciplinary or remedial actions  
when appropriate, including coaching, written  
warnings, and, in serious cases, termination.  
Serious violations may impact an employee s  
Total Rewards package (subject to local labor  
laws and where legally permissible).  
Anti-corruption  8% 
Labor law human resources 29% 
Misuse of assets 14% 
Conflicts of interest 8% 
Inaccurate records 17% 
Financial and public reporting 1% 
Brand protection channel 5% 
Competition 4% 
Items reported to HP global   Integrity at HP team or other  compliance functions in 2020 
percentage of total 
program require our employees, partners,  
and suppliers to follow all applicable national  
laws and regulations, including the U.S.  
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK  
When appropriate, representatives from our  
legal, controllership, and human resources  
teams conduct local investigations.  
Escalated allegations are investigated by  
a dedicated global Integrity investigations  
team. HP s investigation process continues  
to evolve, with improved resources and  
technology to perform investigation-related  
functions in-house and to respond promptly  
to concerns. Additionally, our new global  
case management tool (outlined above)  
enables us to identify emerging trends  
in ethics violations and to assess where  
additional controls may be needed.  
Anti-corruption 
Corruption disrupts fair competition and is  
at odds with HP values. We do not tolerate  
corrupt behavior of any kind, including  
bribery and kickbacks.  
Our Anti-Corruption Policy and compliance  
Bribery Act. Although HP is not certified to  
an anti-corruption management system, all  
of our operational sites and subsidiaries are  
required to follow HP s Anti-Corruption Policy  
and are subject to HP s compliance program  
and procedures (or a comparable subsidiary- 
level policy and compliance program).  
Risk assessment   and audits  
HP conducts regular internal assessments  
of corruption-related risks across 100% of  
our global operations, including detailed  
reviews of the company s global policies  
and processes applicable to all business  
units and global functions worldwide. We  
also use internal data and Transparency  
International s Corruption Perceptions Index  
to identify high-risk regions and assess  
risks related to our business. The public  
sector data analytics tools and processes we  
adopted in 2019 have enhanced HP s ability  
to monitor and mitigate potential risk from  
its public sector business.  
We also periodically retain outside experts  
to assess our anti-corruption policies and  
programs. The last such external assessment  
was performed in 2017. We benchmark our  
approach against peer companies to identify  
best practices in areas including operational  
procedures, employee education, and  
supplier and partner training and monitoring.  
Complementing these assessments, HP  
conducts regular audits focused on potential  
corruption risks in our operations. These  
audits include end-to-end review and testing  
of compliance policies and processes.  
27  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights 
Third-party management  and due diligence 
HP performs ongoing risk-based due  
diligence of third parties that support our  
business, including channel partners, sales  
intermediaries, suppliers, and lobbyists. We  
communicate HP s anti-corruption standards  
and requirements to 100% of these third  
parties through contractual terms and  
conditions as well as our Partner Code of  
Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct.  
Generally, HP requires all partners and  
suppliers, respectively, to comply with HP s  
Partner and Supplier Codes of Conduct.  
HP has implemented and maintains a robust  
risk-based legal and regulatory due diligence  
program to detect, mitigate, and prevent  
third-party anti-corruption compliance risks  
and violations.  
We determine risk levels based on completion  
of a questionnaire by the third party. If HP  
detects risk, it carries out a due diligence  
investigation. If we determine that the risk  
cannot be mitigated, we apply consequences  
to the relevant third party for example,  
removing access to specific benefits and or  
terminating any contract with HP.  
HP requires third parties to complete due  
diligence on a predetermined basis. In  
general, all channel partners must complete  
this process before beginning a contractual  
relationship with HP and then undergo a  
renewal process, at least once every three  
years. Third parties receive training as part  
of HP s due diligence process. 
Training and  communication 
We deliver comprehensive anti-corruption  
content to all employees through annual  
Integrity at HP training, as well as to all  
members of the Board of Directors. We  
also communicate year-round with our  
employees to reinforce our policies, controls,  
and training.  
Additionally, targeted employee training is  
provided to cover specific anti-corruption  
risks relevant to business functions, roles,  
and responsibilities. In 2020: 
  Over 14,600 employees (99% of the  
employees assigned) who support HP s  
public sector business or work in higher- 
risk jobs completed this training. Of these,  
33% were in the Americas, 37% in Asia  
Pacific and Japan, and 30% in Europe,  
Middle East, and Africa. 
Due to COVID-19-related travel restrictions  
in 2020, we were only able to deliver one  
face-to-face session on anti-corruption to  
select employees. All other trainings noted  
above were conducted virtually. 
Requirements for mitigating anti-corruption  
risk associated with charitable giving are  
communicated to employees through the   
HP Global Charitable Contributions   
Policy, and risks are mitigated through   
the grantmaking process. 
Human rights 
HP s stance on human rights is clear  
and uncompromising. We embrace our  
responsibility to respect human rights,  
monitoring emerging human rights  
expectations and best practices to continue  
leading our industry in this area.  
  About 3,780 employees (nearly 96% of  
the relevant employee base) completed  
training on the requirements for doing  
business with the U.S. government.  
HP ranked third among the  44 information and communications  
technology (ICT) manufacturing  companies assessed in the 2020  Corporate Human Rights Benchmark,  which evaluated approximately 200 of  the largest publicly traded companies  in the world on a set of human rights  indicators. We continue working to  improve our program and aspire to  be ranked among the cross-industry  leaders in the future. 
We are committed to ensuring that everyone  
within HP and throughout our value chain  
is treated with dignity and respect. We  
insist that all workers are treated fairly and  
have safe working conditions and freely  
chosen employment. 
For detailed information about our approach  
and performance, see our HP 2020 Human  
Rights Update.  
Policies and commitments 
In 2021, HP developed a strengthened  
Human Rights Policy that advances  
our commitment to upholding human  
28  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights 
rights, engaging with rights holders, and  
embedding our approach throughout our  
business and value chain. This policy and  
our Sustainable Impact strategy recognize  
that social and environmental issues are  
interconnected, and many have human  
rights dimensions. We work for holistic  
change across a broad range of areas. 
We have developed specialized policies  
and practices to support our human rights  
commitments, including those addressing  
supply chain responsibility, responsible  
minerals sourcing, human resources,  
diversity, equity, and inclusion, racial equality,  
privacy and data protection, accessibility,  
and environmental sustainability. 
Our policy commitment includes respecting  
internationally recognized human rights  
as expressed in the United Nations (UN)  
Universal Declaration of Human Rights  
(UDHR), the UN Guiding Principles on  
Business and Human Rights, the OECD  
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the  
UN Global Compact, and the International  
Labour Organization s Declaration on  
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.  
We also commit to comply with local laws  
and regulations. Where laws are silent  
as to protected human rights or are less  
stringent than our approach, we work  
diligently to develop solutions to advance  
our commitment, supporting progress  
wherever possible. 
Governance and  accountability 
Our Chief Executive Officer, who is also a  
member of our Board of Directors, approved  
our Human Rights Policy, and our Chief  
Corporate Affairs Officer holds operational  
accountability for this policy. HP operates  
an internal Human Rights Council to further  
promote the integration of our Human  
Rights Policy. The Council is chaired by  
an HP Executive who has performance  
incentives to manage the company s human  
rights program. The Council is informed  
by independent external human rights  
experts. Board-level oversight is provided  
by the Nominating, Governance and Social  
Responsibility Committee of HP s Board  
of Directors. 
In 2020, 99.1% 
senior executives) completed annual  
Integrity at HP training, which includes  
content related to human rights. We  
also provide annual training for relevant  
procurement staff, which covers the context  
of forced labor and slavery, identification of  
forced labor conditions, company policies  
and standards to combat modern slavery,  
whom to contact for help, and how to report  
related information. 
1 of employees (including  
Reporting  
Complementing our Sustainable Impact  
Report, we also published the HP 2020  
Human Rights Update and the HP Modern  
Slavery Transparency Statement. 
Ongoing  improvement 
Building on our knowledge and capabilities,  
and in line with the UN Guiding Principles  
on Business and Human Rights, we are  
responding to new challenges, assessing  
risks, and monitoring our performance.  
Progress includes being transparent about  
issues we face and discover, and how we are  
resolving them. 
Risk assessment 
Our due diligence process aims to address  
actual and potential adverse impacts  
of our salient issues in our supply chain  
and operations. This risk-based process  
is commensurate with the severity and  
likelihood of the impact. It focuses on  
three key aspects: embedding responsible  
business conduct  ceasing, preventing, or  
remedying the impact  and reporting on  
implementation and results.  
have a role in respecting the human rights  
of workers against the UDHR, to identify  
salient risks 3 and other areas of focus across  
In early 2021, we completed an evaluation  
of seven global corporate functions 2 that  
29  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
our value chain. These risks were further  
evaluated against HP s policies, processes,  
and practices to determine any gaps. This  
process was informed by desk research  
related to the industry, as well as interviews  
with internal and external leaders. 
The assessment highlighted the human rights  
areas of focus outlined in the table above. 
Discrimination: When persons are treated unequally, unfairly, or differently because they are of a   particular group. 
Unfavorable working conditions: Conditions that negatively impact worker dignity and wellbeing. 
Environment: Potential impacts of greenhouse gas emissions, waste, and use of non-renewable resources.  
Privacy: Risks to privacy and data protection rights of people interacting with HP products, services,   and operations.  
Modern slavery: Use of coercion, threats, or deception to exploit individuals and undermine or deprive  them of their freedom. 
Conflict minerals: Risk of forced labor, child labor, and armed group conflict associated with raw   minerals extraction. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights 
Human rights areas of focus 
Learn more about our human rights areas   
of focus and how we address them in the   
HP 2020 Human Rights Update. 
We use audits and specialized assessments  
to help assess performance and identify  
corrective action where required. As a  
full member of the Responsible Business  
Alliance (RBA), we base our Supplier Code  
of Conduct on the RBA Code of Conduct and  
use the RBA Validated Audit Process (VAP)  
and Audit Protocol. We only use certified  
auditors, and most audits are conducted by  
third-party auditing firms.  
The scope of onsite audits and specialized  
assessments depends on the nature of the  
work performed by the entity and the nature  
of the prioritized risks. For most of our  
production suppliers, we conduct full audits  
against our Supplier Code of Conduct. For  
nonproduction suppliers, we may conduct  
audits only covering those portions of the  
Supplier Code of Conduct that are relevant to  
their operations. 
Grievance mechanisms 
We offer multiple channels for our employees  
and third parties, such as workers in our  
supply chain, to ask questions and report  
concerns. We do not tolerate retaliation  
against those who engage in our grievance  
processes, and we expect the same from our  
business partners.  
We collaborate to provide access to effective  
remedy and monitor reported grievances,  
regardless of source, through to resolution.  
We also track and assess allegations of  
potentially adverse human rights impacts  
that are brought to our attention outside of  
the grievance process, and take appropriate  
actions when allegations are confirmed.  
Learn more.  
External  collaboration 
Our global reach provides us the opportunity  
to drive human rights progress worldwide.  
This includes engaging in public forums and  
multi-stakeholder partnerships, such as:  
  Membership of the steering committee of  
  Membership of the steering committee  
  Sitting on the Advisory Board of Social  
  Membership of The Mekong Club, an  
the Responsible Labor Initiative, a cross- 
industry collaboration of the RBA focused  
on workers vulnerable to forced labor.  
of the Leadership Group for Responsible  
Recruitment, which promotes sustainable  
hiring through labor agent training and  
certification.  
Accountability International, creator of  
the TenSquared program that improves  
worker health and safety. 
organization that inspires and engages  
the private sector to lead in the fight  
against modern slavery. 
HP recognizes the fundamental importance  
of privacy, security, and data protection to  
our employees, customers, and partners  
worldwide. This commitment is a critical pillar  
of brand trust and increasingly a source of  
competitive advantage in an era of accelerated  
innovation, global data proliferation, and  
fast-changing regulatory frameworks. We  
build privacy and data protection into the  
design and development of our products,  
services, and operations. We strive to provide  
protections across all of our operations  
that exceed legal minimums, and to deploy  
consistent, rigorous policies and procedures to  
give our customers, employees, and partners  
confidence when sharing information with us  
and using our products and services.  
See our Privacy website for additional  
information. 
Our rigorous policies and standards are  
designed to keep personal data safe and  
respect privacy:  
30  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
  Our Privacy Statement describes our  
  We maintain internal policies and standards  
privacy practices, as well as the choices  
users can make and the rights they can  
exercise in relation to personal data.  
to align with international data protection  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights 
requested for more than 30,590 employees  
across the company with roles involving  
the processing of personal data (and  
completed by 90% of those). The intent of  
In 2020, privacy principles training was  
  Our privacy accountability and compliance  
  Our Data Protection Officer, together  
  HP s HIPAA Compliance Office oversees  
and privacy principles worldwide that  
cover the data life cycle, and continually  
strengthen privacy protections to meet  
the requirements of changing regulations  
and evolving circumstances. This includes  
implementing enhanced internal policies  
and procedures to address our obligations  
as a data controller and processor, and to  
ensure data subject rights are respected.  
framework outlines our procedures and  
organizational controls for assessing and  
managing risks associated with collecting  
and handling personal data. It is based on  
requirements for accountability as defined  
by global laws and regulations. 
with HP s Privacy and Data Protection  
team, provides oversight and leadership  
for compliance, working closely with  
appointed privacy leads in business teams  
throughout the company.  
compliance with Health Insurance  
Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)  
laws where they are triggered by our  
commercial services engagements.  
this training is to reinforce privacy and data  
protection principles at HP, and to ensure  
employees in organizations that influence  
our customers  privacy experience or that  
handle significant volumes of employee or  
customer personal data understand how to  
respect and protect privacy. During the year,  
we also offered access to online courses  
that provide additional topic and role-based  
training opportunities. 
To enhance our privacy accountability and  
compliance framework, we continued to  
implement new data management and  
record-keeping tools in 2020. We also  
Privacy by Design 
HP s Privacy by Design approach requires that HP products, services, websites,  
systems, and applications processing personal data be designed and implemented  
only after thoughtful consideration of privacy implications. HP teams developing or  
making substantial changes in these areas must have a fully formed development  
plan  fill out a Privacy by Design questionnaire and provide any follow-up  
documentation  follow the appropriate documentation requirements based on  
type of personal data involved  consult with HP Cybersecurity on appropriate  
security measures, as required  and develop appropriate notice language with the  
Privacy Office. Our formal review process focuses on privacy as a default setting,  
incorporating key principles of data minimization, transparency of purpose, and  
technical and organizational safeguards.  
See Product security and privacy. 
continued to grow our well-established  
global privacy program by strengthening our  
internal network of privacy leaders, updating  
our policies and standards to reflect  
new processing activities and regulatory  
developments, enhancing our internal  
communications and awareness efforts, and  
supporting ongoing development of customer  
consent management tools. HP does not  
receive a high volume of government requests  
related to personal data (in some years  
none at all). Our Privacy Counsel and Data  
Protection Officer, together with our Chief  
Ethics and Compliance Officer, reviews and  
determines how to address all such requests. 
Privacy and  data protection  compliance  
HP complies with worldwide privacy and data  
breach notification laws and regulations,  
tracks the number of substantiated  
complaints from third parties and personal  
    Breaches of customer privacy cover any noncompliance with existing legal regulations and voluntary standards regarding  the protection of customer privacy related to data for which HP is the data controller. Substantiated complaints are written  statements by regulatory or similar official bodies addressed to the organization that identify breaches of customer privacy,  or complaints lodged with the organization that have been recognized as legitimate by the organization.  
    We believe that the increase in substantiated complaints from outside parties in 2019 and 2020 compared to prior years was  
     Reportable data breaches are those that are required to be reported by law. 2020 is the first year for which HP has included  
      These data relate to requests made to HP by individuals globally. 2020 is the first year that HP has disclosed this data. The  
31  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer   privacy and losses of customer data at HP 
Data requests made to HP     
likely caused by an increase in data subject awareness and empowerment in exercising their rights as provided by law. 
this data in this report. The majority of the total data breaches were caused by human error or technical glitches and not a  failure of our product or services security infrastructure. 
median number of days taken to respond to right to access know requests and right to erasure be forgotten requests was 12. 
Substantiated complaints from outside parties   (including customers) 5 2 4 14   22   
Substantiated complaints from regulatory or other official bodies 0 2 3 1 2 
Data breaches (total)    28 
Right to access know (completed) 137 
Right to access know (rejected) 36 
Right to erasure be forgotten (completed) 2,195 
Right to erasure be forgotten (rejected) 961 
Data breaches (reportable)    1 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights 
Privacy-related complaints, breaches, and requests  
any commercial or legal obligations to  
notify customers. 
data requests made to HP by individuals, and  
maintains an internal incident reporting  
process. Once a potential breach of personal  
data is identified, a core team including  
representatives from privacy, cybersecurity,  
legal, and communications is responsible  
for the management and communication   
of potential data breaches, including   
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
data protection authorities for our Binding  
Global standards  and regulatory  environment  
The secure movement of data is essential to  
our business, and as legislation continues  
to evolve, our privacy and government  
relations teams work with governments  
worldwide to develop robust and globally  
interoperable privacy regulations. See  
Government relations for more detail. 
When developing and updating our privacy  
program, we consider global and domestic  
principles and frameworks, including:  
HP relies on lawful mechanisms for data  
transfer to drive accountability across the  
organization. HP remains one of the few  
companies worldwide 1 recognized by EU  
  California Consumer Privacy Act 
  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation  
  EU General Data Protection Regulation 
  Madrid Resolution on International  
  Organisation for Economic Co-operation  
Privacy Framework 
Privacy Standards 
and Development (OECD) Guidelines on  
the Protection of Privacy and Transborder  
Flows of Personal Data 
We remain one of the few companies  worldwide 2 recognized by EU data  protection authorities for our Binding  Corporate Rules (BCRs) for data protection. 
Corporate Rules (BCRs), reflecting our high  
standard of data protection policies and  
procedures and enabling global data transfer  
within our company.  
HP is self-certified under the Privacy Shield  
framework within the United States, and we  
comply with the Asia-Pacific Economic  
Cooperation s Cross-Border Privacy Rules.  
Due to recent court rulings in Europe on the  
Schrems II case that invalidated the EU-U.S.  
Privacy Shield data transfer mechanism, HP  
no longer relies on the Privacy Shield  
framework for data transfers. We are  
working to strengthen our committed  
transparency on this topic to our customers  
and to the EU data protection authorities  
who authorize our BCRs that permit ongoing  
data transfers outside the EU. 
Cybersecurity 
In our industry, hostile attempts to acquire  
personal and financial information are  
constant. HP works to block these attempts  
through robust internal controls and  
external partnerships. Everyone at HP has  
a role and responsibility to help ensure  
cybersecurity. Our incident response  
processes and playbooks support security  
rigor and apply to a range of ever-evolving  
industry threats.  
Our Cybersecurity Organization provides  
and maintains the guidance, governance,  
processes, resources, and IT partner and  
vendor relationships necessary to identify  
unwanted access, security threats, and  
cyberattacks, and to shield our customers   
and employees  information. HP s Chief  
Information Security Officer (CISO) reports  
to the HP Board of Directors, and the CISO  
and the Cybersecurity Organization lead  
efforts to educate HP about cybersecurity.  
Our internal Cybersecurity Policy Suite  
provides a framework for the organization,  
governance, and implementation of  
information security across the company.  
Based on the Policy Suite and other  
information, we communicate with and  
32  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights 
educate employees about regulatory  
requirements, emerging threats, and new  
security practices, among other items. The  
CISO and the Cybersecurity Organization  
conduct audits of HP cybersecurity systems,  
as well as annual risk assessments of  
related HP systems and processes, including  
our information security management  
system (ISMS). 
HP did not experience any cybersecurity  
events that required disclosure during 2020. 
When incidents do occur, the Cybersecurity  
Organization responds swiftly, and   
regularly reports related activities to the  
relevant leadership. 
Our online Security Bulletins support  
HP s commitment to provide customers  
and others prompt notification and  
remediation of any vulnerabilities related  
to HP products, services, and solutions.  
HP s Chief Security Advisor is a member of  
HP s external Security Advisory Board. The  
Chief Security Advisor and respective staff  
lead collaboration with our CISO and the  
Cybersecurity Organization while working  
with the R D teams, HP Labs, business  
units, product teams, and global functions to  
advance HP s leadership role in cybersecurity  
to help ensure HP becomes recognized as a  
cybersecurity company. The Chief Security  
Advisor and respective staff lead efforts to  
educate HP and clients about cybersecurity,  
conduct related risk assessments on HP  
and clients, perform analytics to establish  
cybersecurity baselines, 
cybersecurity roadmaps for HP and our clients  
to continually improve performance and  
establish new baselines. We conduct both  
internal and external audits of HP and client  
cybersecurity systems, which are carried out  
by credentialed cybersecurity advisors to  
drive improvement in HP and client systems  
and processes, including ISMSs. 
HP s risk-based ISMS maintained ISO 27001  
certification during 2020, providing assurance  
that HP meets the international standard for  
security of information systems. 
In 2020, we continued working to  
understand the techniques used by hostile  
actors, and how to further improve existing  
security controls and measures. The HP  
Worldwide Security and Analytics Practice  
continues to support our company and  
customers to drive good cyber hygiene  
and to have solid controls that align to  
regulatory and compliance requirements,  
such as the Health Insurance Portability  
and Accountability Act, the Payment Card  
4 and create  
Industry Data Security Standards, and  
various privacy laws. HP s Client Advisory  
Council works to drive security awareness  
and education and provides a forum for  
collaboration and knowledge-sharing with  
our clients worldwide.  
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we  
worked to communicate cybersecurity best  
practices for remote working, including  
through internal training, a public Goodwill  
and Outreach Campaign, and publication  
of various white papers and thought  
leadership presentations. 
We conduct and participate in cybersecurity  
research to continue to uncover and identify  
cybersecurity trends and risks, and to drive  
cybersecurity innovation in our products,  
devices, services, and solutions. HP  
participates in cybersecurity organizations,  
boards, and or advisory boards, including  
IEEE, ISA, ISACA, (ISC)2, ISSA, NIST, SANS,  
and others. 
See also Product security and privacy and  
Summary of HP Security Measures. 
Government relations 
HP public policy engagements are aligned  
with our business interests and our  
core values to drive sustainable impact  
for people, planet, and community. For  
example, we promote policies that advance  
diversity and inclusion such as our support  
for successful passage of the California  
Corporate Board Diversity Bill (AB 979)   
to help ensure our employees, customers,  
and communities thrive in a just society. We  
seek opportunities to promote sustainable  
practices and new technologies, such as  
additive manufacturing (3D printing) and  
microfluidics that can contribute to an  
effective response to COVID-19, and drive  
more resilient industries and supply chains. 
Governments can create a level playing  
field by removing trade barriers, adopting  
competitive tax structures, and protecting  
intellectual property. To drive innovation  
and equitable economic growth, we support  
policies to eliminate the digital divide and  
encourage access to the best technologies  
for people around the world. 
33  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Integrity and human rights 
Policy priorities  
Our global Government Relations team  
leads our engagement with policymakers,  
regulators, trade associations, and peer  
companies to advance public policies   
aligned with HP s interests and values. Our  
priorities include: 
  Advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion. 
  Promoting sustainability. 
  Ensuring market access and supply  
  Preserving competitive tax structures and  
  Enhancing innovation through  
  Protecting against counterfeits.  
  Encouraging technology policies that  
chain resilience. 
creating economic investment incentives.  
emerging technologies such as additive  
manufacturing and microfluidics.  
promote security and data protection.  
Political engagement  
We conduct all political engagements,  
including contributions to candidates, in a  
transparent, legal, and ethical manner and in  
accordance with HP s Political Contributions  
Policy and code of business conduct,  
Integrity at HP. Our U.S. Public Sector Code of  
Conduct guides ethical business interactions  
with federal, state, and local officials. 
In 2020, HP and the HP Employee Political  
Action Committee (PAC) supported  
candidates for elected office using  
established criteria, such as alignment   
with our values, representation of HP   
HP corporate political contributions  
HP employee PAC contributions 
HP U.S. federal lobbying expenditures 
State and local candidates and groups  299,500  300,000  111,900  138,900 
Federal and state candidates, party  committees, and PACs supporting diverse  candidates 
Total U.S. federal lobbying expenditures,  including trade associations and outside  lobbyists (reported quarterly under the  Lobbying Disclosure Act) 
 2,789,600  1,890,000  1,620,000  1,570,000 
sites, and understanding of issues affecting  
our business and industry. See details. 
HP does not make political contributions  
outside of the United States. We also make  
public our U.S. lobbying expenditures and  
membership in U.S. trade associations that  
engage in lobbying activity. HP did not make  
any in-kind political donations in 2020. 
In 2020, for the third year in a row, we  
earned a perfect score and tied for first  
place overall among S P 500 companies in  
the CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political  
Disclosure and Accountability.  
 42,500  87,000  85,500  95,000 
2017 2018 2019 2020 
Supply chain  responsibility 
35  Approach  
38 Health and safety  
39 Responsible minerals sourcing  
41  Supplier diversity  
44 Environmental impact  
47 Performance monitoring and evaluation  
34  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Appendix Products and solutions Operations Integrity and human rights Footprint Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility 
sustainable, and resilient supply chain  
protects our business and brand,  
strengthens customer relationships, and  
creates opportunities to innovate.  
We require that all workers receive fair  
treatment, freely chosen employment,   
and safe working conditions. To reduce our  
footprint, we collaborate with suppliers  
to decrease greenhouse gas (GHG)  
emissions, water use, waste, and other  
environmental impacts. 
We engage with suppliers in a wide range of  
ways to promote responsibility. Suppliers  
HP relies on one of the IT industry s largest  
supply chains, made up of hundreds of  
production suppliers and thousands of  
nonproduction suppliers. 1 An ethical,  
representing 95% of HP s total production  
35  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Labor Health and safety 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
Our supply chain is complex and we work to address  a broad range of social and environmental topics. 
Improving the lives of the people who make our products   and strengthening the communities where they live and work 
Supply chain responsibility  
Responsible minerals sourcing 
supplier spend have gone through a social  
and environmental assessment, and suppliers  
representing about 40% of production  
supplier spend completed on-site social and  
environmental audits during 2020.  
The strength of our supply chain  
responsibility program enables us to meet  
and exceed customer expectations. In 2020,  
approximately  7 billion of HP sales was  
enabled by eco labels, accessibility, human  
rights, and supply chain responsibility. 2 
For an overview of our management  
approach in this area, including risk  
assessment, policies and standards,  
continuous improvement, capability building,  
external collaboration, and reporting, see  
Our approach to a sustainable supply chain.  
Supplier diversity Environmental impact 
Driving Sustainable Impact throughout   the supply chain 
We will continue to collaborate with local  
organizations to strengthen factory workers   
awareness and skills, through programs  
focused on women s leadership, peer advice,  
use of personal protective equipment (PPE),  
and other areas. Capability building for  
workers has been integral to our supply chain  
responsibility program for over a decade. 
programs during 2020, bringing   
Put workers at the center of   
our program by offering worker   
since the beginning of 2015 
PROGRESS IN 2020 46,000 
factory workers participated in five   
the total to 312,000 workers trained   
since the beginning of 2015, 62% of   
empowerment programs 
Develop skills and improve wellbeing   
of 500,000 factory workers by 2025,   
the way to our goal 3  
In 2020, the factory participation rate was  
up 13% compared to our baseline. Travel  
and factory restrictions due to COVID-19  
significantly impacted our ability to  
conduct related activities during the year.  
We will continue to focus on increasing  
participation deepening engagement  
with suppliers who already have strong  
management systems and coaching smaller  
spend and sub-tier suppliers to improve the  
maturity of their sustainability management. 
Enable suppliers to develop and strengthen   
their policies, management systems, and  
mechanisms to take ownership for meeting   
social and environmental compliance  
requirements and elevate performance  
Double factory participation 4 in our supply   
compared to 2015  
PROGRESS IN 2020 
chain sustainability programs by 2025,   
increase in factory participation,   
compared to 2015 
We also provide tailored supply chain  
information to our customers and channel  
partners to help them achieve their supply  
chain sustainability goals. 
Statement, Report on Cobalt, Human Rights  
Transparency 
From PCs to printers, HP s products rely  
on a vast network of suppliers spanning  
six continents. Hundreds of production  
suppliers make the products we sell, and  
several thousand nonproduction suppliers  
support our operations. We disclose the  
names and locations of the production  
suppliers that represent greater than  
95% of our manufacturing spend. Our  
products are manufactured in countries and  
territories worldwide. More than half of our  
manufacturing suppliers are based in the  
Asia Pacific region.  
In addition to this report, we disclose  
information about our supply chain  
responsibility and human rights performance  
through our annual SEC Conflict Minerals  
36  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Update, and CDP Supply Chain disclosures.  
Report, Modern Slavery Transparency  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
   Scores reflect performance against criteria that are updated periodically. During 2020, we raised the threshold for the  Preferred level from 85% to 90%, and for the Acceptable level from 65% to 70%. 
Average sustainability scorecard results 
for the Preferred and Acceptable levels to increase performance expectations   
(see graph). The Scorecard applied to suppliers representing 76% of our production  
spend in 2020.  
Sustainability Scorecards  
We summarize supplier performance using Sustainability Scorecards, designed  
to incentivize suppliers and drive ongoing improvement through consistent,  
comprehensive, and actionable feedback. The tool provides suppliers a score that  
encompasses audit performance  environmental governance, transparency, goal  
setting, and performance  conflict minerals management  and other social and  
environmental topics. The results contribute to a supplier s overall procurement  
score, which impacts their relationship with HP and ongoing business. Suppliers  
discuss their Scorecard with HP as part of regular business performance evaluations.  
In 2020, we began scoring suppliers against an updated Scorecard, which caused  
some scores to decrease. It includes additional environmental criteria and adjusted  
weighting to increase emphasis on sustained improvement, and maintained focus  
on compliance in core issue areas. During the year, we also raised the thresholds   
2017 2016 2018 2019 2020 
Sustainability Scorecard results  
average scores 
Preferred   90%  Acceptable 70 90%  Concern   70%  
  Commodity  suppliers 
  Final assembly  suppliers 
External  collaboration 
HP takes a leading role through  
collaborations focused on elevating  
supply chain best practices and tackling  
shared challenges. 
Key relationships include:  
  CDP Supply Chain program 
  Clean Electronics Production Network  
  Green Freight Asia 
  Leadership Group for  
  National Minority Supplier  
  Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance  
  Responsible Business Alliance 
  Responsible Labor Initiative  
  Responsible Minerals Initiative 
  Social Accountability International  
  U.S. EPA SmartWay 
  WWF Climate Business Network  
Responsible Recruitment 
Development Council 
Capability building 
In collaboration with NGO partners and other  
external organizations, we provide programs  
designed to help suppliers continually  
improve along their sustainability journey.  
During 2020, we reached 46,000 workers  
through our capability-building programs.  
Examples of the trainings and opportunities  
we provide are listed below, five of which ran  
during the year. We were not able to offer the  
others due to travel and other restrictions  
related to the pandemic.  
37  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Leadership above and   beyond HP s requirements 
worker empowerment programs by 2030,   
since the beginning of 2015 
2030 WORKER EMPOWERMENT GOAL 
Reach one million workers through   
Baseline conformance   with HP standards 
Ongoing engagement   in key areas 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
Focus areas  Examples of trainings and opportunities 
  EHS awareness training   Foreign migrant worker training   RBA Code of Conduct training 
  Science Based Targets workshop    Responsible Recruitment 101 training   Water management and reporting for IT industry companies   Supplier Environmental Summit 
  Worker wellbeing program   Mitigating Risks of Forced Labor and Impacts of COVID-19   on Migrant Workers in the Supply Chain 
In October 2020, we launched MOVE, a  
program to help empower migrant workers  
in Southeast Asia. The initiative provides  
information on COVID-19 and delivers free  
training on workers  rights in four languages  
to support workers and managers in  
Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, and Thailand. 
In 2019, we launched a two-year worker  
wellbeing program in collaboration with  
Verit , an international nonprofit that  
promotes safe, fair, and legal working  
conditions in global supply chains. This  
program strengthens health and safety  
knowledge and equips workers with the tools  
and skills needed to grow professionally and  
personally. During the year, we completed  
assessments at three factories, developed  
an implementation plan, and administered  
a two-day ambassador training on-site. The  
worker wellbeing program will directly reach  
2,300 workers, with the potential to reach  
more than 10,000 workers. 
In 2020, our learning club events part of  
our worker wellbeing program became  
virtual. We launched several campaigns to  
encourage supply chain workers to continue  
We continually deepen our understanding   
of the social and economic factors that lead  
to labor concerns, and then focus on areas of  
risk where we can have the most influence.  
We collaborate with organizations and  
government agencies with local expertise   
Combating   forced labor 1 
As part of our commitment to addressing  
modern slavery, we start with our own  
operations and suppliers while striving to  
collaborate more broadly in ways that drive  
positive change. Modern slavery, as defined  
in guidance under the UK Modern Slavery  
Act, can manifest itself in different ways,  
including through debt bondage, forced  
labor, and human trafficking.2 
to promote long-term, scalable solutions.  
Our primary focus areas are combating  
forced labor, protecting workers  rights,   
and advancing worker health and safety,  
including safe use of process chemicals. 
learning throughout the pandemic, including  
initiatives to promote occupational health and  
safety and prevent the spread of COVID-19.  
Working with U.S. truckers  to fight human trafficking 
Truckers Against Trafficking (TAT)  
sees individual truckers as vital  
eyes and ears in the fight against  
human trafficking. TAT helps to  
combat trafficking in the United  
States by educating and mobilizing  
members of the trucking and  
busing industries and coordinating  
with law enforcement agencies.  
We support innovative and  
effective initiatives such as TAT to  
combat forced labor wherever it  
exists. Most of HP s U.S. trucking  
vendors have signed up to the  
TAT initiative, and several are  
sponsors. We are one of the few  
shippers that participate directly  
and are committed to ensuring  
that all carriers moving HP  
products in the United States take  
the training. 
HP is uncompromising in our expectations of  
ethical behavior by our employees, partners,  
and suppliers. In our Modern Slavery  
Transparency Statement, we discuss our  
efforts to address modern slavery during the  
fiscal year ended October 31, 2020. 
Where significant risks are identified, we  
work with suppliers and partners to address  
challenges and enact risk mitigation plans.  
As an example, in 2019 we launched a  
partnership with ISSARA Institute, an NGO  
that helps tackle issues related to human  
trafficking and forced labor, to support  
the monitoring of recruitment processes  
in Myanmar. In 2020, COVID-19 essentially  
ended cross-border recruitment, so  
we refocused the initiative on worker  
voice, using ISSARA s expertise to help  
understand and address worker concerns  
and improve factory worker-management  
communication. We plan to resume focus  
on responsible recruitment when borders  
reopen as the pandemic eases. 
To support and advance supplier due  
diligence, we sponsor Responsible  
Recruitment 101, a virtual training for  
suppliers in Taiwan and Malaysia, organized  
by the Responsible Labor Initiative. The  
two-session training provides suppliers a  
comprehensive understanding of forced  
38  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
labor and modern slavery in relation to  
their own businesses, the Responsible  
Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct, and  
applicable laws and regulations.  
In partnership with the RBA, industry peers,  
and sub-tier suppliers, in 2020 we hosted  
a training titled  Mitigating Risks of Forced  
Labor and Impacts of COVID-19 on Migrant  
Workers in the Supply Chain  for suppliers,  
to mitigate the risks of workers  rights being  
violated due to travel restrictions associated  
with COVID-19. The webinar is designed  
to help suppliers understand global legal  
requirements against forced labor and the  
RBA s Code of Conduct and audit process,  
sharing best practices to mitigate the impact  
of the pandemic on workers. 
Protecting   workers  rights 
We communicate openly with workers  
and management in our supply chain to  
identify and understand workers  questions,  
concerns, and priorities. We train our  
procurement teams, supplier managers,  
and other employees to be vigilant and  
report instances of practices that violate  
our standards. 
Health and safety  
HP aspires to a world where our products  
and operations use materials and chemicals  
that cause no harm. We take a science- 
based approach to assessing the potential  
human health and environmental impacts of  
substances used in making HP products.  
We continue to engage with our suppliers to  
strengthen knowledge and best practice in  
health and safety. In 2020, HP collaborated  
with several other members of the  
Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) to help  
address supplier requests for guidance on the  
increasingly complex working environment  
during COVID-19. The resulting document  
supports suppliers in the electronics  
industry by sharing best practices to protect  
workers and boost productivity and morale. 
Process chemicals  
Suppliers are required to follow the  
manufacturing process chemical use  
restrictions outlined in HP s General  
Specification for the Environment (GSE).  
Additionally, our Supplier Code of Conduct  
requires suppliers to employ robust  
management systems to catalog and  
evaluate process chemicals, eliminate or  
manage hazardous substances, demonstrate  
that analyses of safer alternatives were  
conducted when a hazardous chemical  
is being used, and provide workers with  
essential PPE and training. We gather data  
from our suppliers about process chemicals  
and implement corrective action as needed. 
We encourage suppliers to switch to safer  
choices, such as changing from solvent- 
based to water-based paints. In situations  
where the use of hazardous chemicals is  
currently unavoidable, we help suppliers  
identify preferable alternatives through our  
alternative materials assessment program. 
To drive progress across the industry, we are  
a founding member of the Clean Electronics  
Production Network (CEPN), facilitated by  
the NGO Green America. This collaborative  
multi-stakeholder effort developed a  
program to assess the use of process  
chemicals, strengthen the culture of worker  
safety and engagement, reduce worker  
exposure to identified priority process  
chemicals, substitute those chemicals with  
safer alternatives within members  own  
manufacturing processes, and ultimately  
reach deeper into their supply chains. 
Responsible minerals sourcing 
Any connection between the materials used  
in HP products and armed violence or human  
rights abuses is unacceptable. To ensure  
our products are made responsibly, we  
have adopted industry-leading policies and  
monitoring practices and are broadening our  
vigilance beyond conflict minerals to a wider  
range of minerals and geographies. Through  
collaborative efforts, we aim to expand the  
market for responsibly sourced minerals,  
including those originating from conflict- 
affected and high-risk areas (CAHRAs).  
Conflict minerals 
Across our complex, global, multi-actor  
supply chain, we have the most influence  
over our direct suppliers. However, in the case  
of trace and precious minerals, we recognize  
that we must work to influence the practices  
of those much deeper in the supply chain. 
39  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
While conflict minerals are rarely used in  
large volumes in any one IT product or by one  
company, the tantalum, tin, tungsten, and  
gold (3TG) metals produced from them are  
found in relatively small amounts in virtually  
all electronic products. However, we are  
typically 4 10 supply chain stages removed  
from the smelters that purchase and process  
the ore into metals. For this reason, HP  
works with peers across the IT industry to  
collectively engage the entire supply chain in  
efforts to eradicate minerals that may have  
directly or indirectly supported armed groups  
and to promote responsible sourcing of  
minerals regardless of origin.  
HP supports retention of the U.S. conflict  
minerals reporting framework as an  
economic driver for smelters to responsibly  
source minerals in the Democratic Republic  
of the Congo (DRC) and surrounding  
countries. In the European Union, we support  
implementation of the Conflict Minerals  
Regulation, which appropriately focuses on  
responsible smelter sourcing regardless  
of country of mineral origin, including  
CAHRAs worldwide. 
We do not support de facto embargoes  
of minerals from the DRC and adjoining  
countries, nor from other conflict-affected  
regions. We believe it is more effective to  
use our leverage (as a company and within  
cross-industry collaborations) to address  
issues and promote positive change.  
This helps to protect people in those  
regions while maintaining their economic  
opportunities. We are actively involved in  
the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI)  
and support its efforts to engage with  
government stakeholders. 
Eliminating conflict-related  risks from our supply chain  
Promoting best practices by smelters is  
the most direct way to address the risk of  
conflict minerals entering our supply chain.  
We require our suppliers to source 3TG  
for HP products only from smelters that  
comply with the RMI s Responsible Minerals  
Assurance Process (RMAP), which requires  
a third-party sourcing audit. Presence on  
the RMI conformant list demonstrates a  
smelter s conflict-free status.  
However, our relatively small use of these  
metals decreases our influence, so we need  
all industries that use these materials to  
demand conflict-free 3TG. We will continue  
to work with our suppliers and across  
industries to drive demand for conflict-free  
sourcing, regardless of whether the minerals  
originate in the DRC or elsewhere.  
We promote conflict-free minerals in our  
supply chain by:  
  Encouraging all smelters that purchase  
  Requiring our production suppliers of  
  Supporting multi-stakeholder  
and process mineral ores to undergo  
third-party sourcing audits.  
goods containing 3TG ( 3TG suppliers ) to  
require their smelters to undergo third- 
party sourcing audits.  
collaboration to establish secure, conflict- 
free sources of 3TG ores from the DRC.  
Suppliers  
HP sets clear requirements of 3TG suppliers  
in our Supply Chain Social and Environmental  
Responsibility Policy (which includes  
our Conflict Minerals Policy), General  
Specification for the Environment, and  
RMI Conflict Minerals Reporting Template,  
which gives companies a common format for  
sharing information about 3TG sources with  
business partners and suppliers across the  
supply chain. We require corrective action  
from suppliers where needed and provide  
them training upon request. If any 3TG  
supplier reports sourcing from a smelter that  
triggers one of our potential risk indicators,  
we work with the supplier to establish  
whether unverified material is potentially  
used in HP products. When we identify a risk  
of this occurring, we require the supplier to  
remove the smelter from our supply chain.  
If a supplier is non-responsive, we use  
our procurement leverage to engage the  
supplier and improve performance. 
40  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Supplier Code of Conduct.  
We assess these suppliers  responses to the  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
To identify and disclose the smelters and  
3TG. Each smelter or refiner reported was  
identified in at least one of the RMI Conflict  
Minerals Reporting Templates we received. 
Performance 
In 2020, we received acceptable responses  
to RMI Conflict Minerals Reporting Templates  
from suppliers representing about 97% of  
our 3TG procurement spend, including both  
final assembly and commodity suppliers.  
These responses detailed 250 3TG facilities,  
greater than 99% of which were compliant or  
in the process of becoming compliant with  
an independent assessment program, and  
or that we reasonably believe exclusively  
source conflict minerals from recycled or  
scrap sources or from outside of the Covered  
Countries (as of March 2021). 
U.S. Securities and Exchange  Commission (SEC) Conflict  Minerals Report  
In May 2021, we filed our Form SD and  
Conflict Minerals Report with the U.S. SEC  
disclosing our due diligence efforts and  
results. See our SEC Conflict Minerals Report.  
refiners in our supply chain, between January  
and December 2020 HP surveyed suppliers  
that contributed material, components,  
or manufacturing for products containing  
   As of March 2021. 
    Smelters or refiners listed by RMI as currently RMAP  
Status of all supplier-reported  3TG facilities  Status of all supplier-reported 3TG facilities 
 Unknown  31 28 35 40 1 
  Believed  to source  recycled scrap  or from outside  of the Covered  Countries 
  Compliant or   in process   260 260 257 237 247 
compliant (including certification or accreditation by similar  independent assessment programs cross-recognized by  RMAP such as the Responsible Jewellery Council s (RJC)  Chain-of-Custody Certification Program or the London  Bullion Market Association s Responsible Gold Programme)  or in the process of becoming RMAP compliant. 
2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 
  Number of total 3TG facilities in HP Conflict Minerals Report  3TG facility list that were either RMAP compliant or in the  process of becoming compliant, and or that we reasonably  believe exclusively source conflict minerals from recycled or  scrap sources or from outside of the Covered Countries (as  of March 2021). 
Other regions   and minerals  
Learning from our experience combating  
conflict minerals in the DRC and surrounding  
countries, we are expanding our efforts.  
This aligns with growing awareness of  
mineral-sourcing issues beyond the DRC and  
surrounding countries covered by the U.S.  
Dodd Frank Act. The EU Conflict Minerals  
Regulation, which covers EU imports of  
3TG minerals from all regions of the world,  
requires all large EU 3TG metal importers  
and smelters to become  responsible  
importers  consistent with the OECD Due  
Total 250 249  99% 
Tin 62 62 100% 
Tungsten 40 40 100% 
Gold 111 110 99% 
Type of  facility Total Progress  toward DRC  Conflict-Free  Percentage 
Tantalum 37 37 100% 
Progress toward DRC  Conflict-Free, 2020 
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply  
Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected  
and High-Risk Areas. Although HP s  
operations are not within the scope of the  
EU regulation, we are voluntarily aligning  
our policy and approach to support our  
customers  requirements consistent with  
the regulation.  
The Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) is  
the parent organization of the RMI. In 2020,  
we supported revision of the RBA Code of  
Conduct so that it would address sourcing  
from any CAHRAs worldwide, not only from  
the DRC and Covered Countries. Leading  
up to this, we also supported RMI s work to  
help smelters develop processes to identify  
CAHRAs, as well as RMI s work to fully align  
its processes and standards for assessing  
smelters  sourcing practices with the OECD  
Guidance on sourcing from CAHRAs.  
Our minerals due diligence and reporting  
also include cobalt, which has been linked   
to human rights risks. We expect our  
suppliers to have policies addressing  
cobalt, to report to HP the names of the  
cobalt refiners they use, and to join us in  
41  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
encouraging these refiners to complete  
an RMI audit. Additionally, we encourage  
suppliers to engage in collaborative  
industry action through RMI. See our Report  
on Cobalt, and our responsible minerals  
sourcing expectations for suppliers in HP s  
General Specification for the Environment.  
Multi-stakeholder  initiatives 
Sourcing minerals responsibly requires  
globally coordinated efforts across sectors  
and industries. We collaborate widely with  
businesses, NGOs, government agencies,  
and our production suppliers to advance the  
use of responsibly sourced minerals.  
Through RMI, we help develop and share  
due diligence standards, tools, trainings,  
and white papers to build the capabilities of  
the IT industry and beyond. We also support  
broader policy efforts through participation  
in RMI and its teams for Due Diligence  
Practices, Smelter Engagement, and Sensing  
and Prioritization. 
Partnership for Responsible Minerals,  
Public-Private Alliance for Responsible  
Minerals Trade, and KEMET Partnership   
Additionally, we collaborate through   
external forums, including the European  
for Social and Economic Sustainability. 
In 2020, the International Tin Supply  Chain Initiative (ITSCI) made an urgent  appeal for support from industry and  stakeholders so that it could prevent its  programs from being halted by COVID-19  disruptions. HP became a member   of ITSCI to help fund its upstream   (from smelters) due diligence work.   This program supports the efforts of  companies such as HP to responsibly  source minerals from CAHRAs and  enables miners and communities to  benefit from related activities.  
Supplier  diversity 
Diversity, equity, and inclusion is a top  
priority at HP, and not only within our  
workforce. Our commitment in this area  
applies equally to our relationships with  
suppliers. Through our purchasing decisions  
and activities, we foster greater opportunity,  
equality, and representation. Building a  
more diverse supply chain reflects our  
values while driving greater innovation,  
fortifying our business, and strengthening  
local economies.  
We encourage small businesses and  
companies owned by women, minorities,  
veterans, service-disabled veterans,   
LGBTQ  individuals, and aboriginal or  
indigenous individuals to compete for our  
business. In 2020, in the United States we  
spent  370 million with small businesses,  
 100 million with minority-owned  
businesses, and  103 million with women- 
owned businesses 
During the year, our supplier diversity  
program in the United States had an overall  
economic impact of approximately  1.0  
billion (see graphic on next page). 
In 2020, we continued to develop our  
supplier diversity program in the United  
States. To accelerate our efforts, we  
work with the National Minority Supplier  
1 (see additional data).  
    Data is for the 12 months ending September 30 of the year noted. Figures are based on HP purchases in the United States and Puerto Rico from U.S.-based businesses. 
    Goods and services produced by HP s diverse suppliers and their supply chains.  
     Including professional services, scientific services, technical services, computer and electronic manufacturing, real estate, and numerous other industries. 
Development Council (NMSDC), Georgia  
Minority Supplier Development Council,  
Women s Business Enterprise National  
Council, and industry groups such as  
tech:Scale.  
In September 2020, we took the NMSDC  
 In This Together  pledge and sponsored  
programs to invest in minority businesses  
struggling to recover from COVID-19 as  
well as coalitions to help eradicate racial  
wealth gaps and access to start-up capital.  
We also participated in the U.S. House of  
Representatives Small Business Committee  
Supplier Diversity Roundtable to discuss ways  
to develop and engage minority suppliers.  
Our work supporting U.S. veteran-owned  
42  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Spending with small and  diverse suppliers   
(up 49% from 2019) 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
 557 million 
Economic impact summary of HP supplier diversity program, 2020  
Incomes earned by  employees in the jobs  supported by HP s supplier  diversity program purchases   
(up 44% from 2019) 
 1.0 billion overall economic impact    
 387 million 
businesses earned us recognition on the  
Military Friendly  2020 Supplier Diversity list. 
We launched the HP Racial Equality and Social  
build economic power. Our goal is for 10%  
of HP supplier diversity spend in the United  
States to be with Black African American  
suppliers by 2022. 
Justice Task Force in June 2020 and have  
pledged to drive economic empowerment  
for Black African American-owned U.S.  
businesses by increasing our spending with  
them. Through policies, programs, and  
executive sponsorships, we will help these  
suppliers develop relationships with HP that  
can help strengthen their businesses and  
(up 43% from 2019)  
Jobs supported   through HP s spending   with diverse suppliers     
(up 43% from 2019) 
program was more than  300 million. 
Supplier  expectations  
To advance progress deeper in our supply  
chain, HP sets the expectation for suppliers  
that provide services to HP in the United  
States to spend a minimum of 10% of any  
work subcontracted and or purchased on  
behalf of HP with diverse businesses. To  
strengthen the program s racial equality  
focus, top suppliers subcontracting work  
in the United States must spend at least  
5% with certified Black African American  
businesses. In 2020, our allocatable indirect  
spend 2 with diverse suppliers through this  
Federal, state, and local  personal and corporate  taxes generated   
(up 44% from 2019) 
 325 million 
To improve the diversity of our suppliers   
workforces, we require top service suppliers  
in the United States with account teams  
of 10 or more to implement diversity  
initiatives to recruit, attract, and hire diverse  
employees, with a goal that at least 10%  
of HP supplier account managers be Black  
African American by 2022. This builds on the  
programs described below with marketing  
and legal suppliers and partners. 
Raising standards  and practices across  the marketing  industry 
We encourage our suppliers and partners  
to prioritize diversity and inclusion within  
their own operations. In 2016, we challenged  
our top five U.S.-based marketing agencies  
to significantly increase the number of  
women and U.S. minorities in top creative  
and strategic planning roles on HP account  
teams. During 2020, we saw strong  
improvements compared to 2019 for  
underrepresented minorities working on HP  
account teams and in non-account roles.  
Moving forward, we will continue to challenge  
our marketing agency partners to identify  
underrepresented groups in order to set  
specific goals, plans, and measurement that  
help increase diverse creative talent across  
HP account and senior leadership roles. 
on work for HP.  
   Data for 2017 and 2018 represented five agencies. Data for 2019 and 2020 represented four agencies.  
    The decrease in women team members from 2019 to 2020 was due partly to a shift from an agency with a high percentage of  
     Senior roles are defined as: creative directors and above (creative department)  chief strategy officer, heads of account  
Promoting diversity  with our legal  partners  
Our legal department is also focused on  
improving diversity among our U.S. law  
firm partners and withholds up to 10% of  
all invoiced spend of those firms who fail to  
meet or exceed diverse minimal staffing   
43  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Non account resources 
Women 45% 58% 57% 56% 
Underrepresented minorities 33% 36% 29% 52% 
Overall HP account senior roles    
Underrepresented minorities 19% 28% 20% 32% 
Overall HP account team 
Women 61% 62% 79% 56% 
Underrepresented minorities 24% 36% 44% 51% 
Women 51% 55% 55% 50% 
women to an agency with a lower percentage of women but a higher percentage of underrepresented minorities. 
planning, group planning directors (planning department)  senior account directors and above (account management)  group  executive producers and above (production department)  department heads and above (all other departments). The agencies  represented in this table are determined based on HP spend. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
Diversity at HP s top U.S.-based marketing agencies   
percentage of total 
Law firms are asked to staff at least one  
underrepresented minority or one woman  
partner and one racially ethnically diverse  
attorney, each performing at least 10% of  
the billable hours on HP business. Firms are  
required to track and share data reflecting  
compliance quarterly. As of the end of 2020,  
93% of engaged firms met the requirements,  
up from 46% in early 2017 when this  
initiative was launched.  
Overall, 83% of HP s outside counsel teams  
were led by a diverse partner at the end of  
2020 up from 46% in 2017. 
2017 2018 2019 2020   
Supporting   diversity in the  financial sector 
In 2020, HP s treasury department expanded  
the scope of its diversity initiatives, intended  
to support greater diversity in the financial  
sector and to diversify HP s investor base  
and banking expertise. HP s Bank Model  
the tool by which HP ranks and prioritizes  
potential bank partners incorporates an  
annual diversity survey that looks at the  
diversity of the bank(s) overall and the teams  
that service HP. The rankings that stem  
from this model are an important factor in  
banking allocation decisions.  
In 2020, HP partnered with Black-, Latino-,  
women-, veteran-, and disabled veteran- 
owned banks to distribute  100 million  
in bonds as part of HP s inaugural bond  
offering. HP also appointed a Black- and  
women-owned firm for the execution of  
material amounts of share repurchase during  
2020 and continued working with a minority  
firm as one of a small group of commercial  
paper (short-term borrowing) dealers. 
Economic  empowerment in  South Africa 
In South Africa, we support Broad-Based  
Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE)  
initiatives through our supplier purchasing,  
to advance distribution of wealth across a  
broad spectrum of disadvantaged groups. 
During 2020, we spent: 
In 2020, HP in South Africa was rated as a  
Superior Level 1 contributor to B-BBEE, the  
highest rating possible, which measures the  
company s performance in this area.  
  R185.2 million ( 11.2 million) with all  
  R133.6 million ( 8.1 million) with large  
  R51.6 million ( 3.1 million) with small and  
  R103.6 million ( 6.3 million) with firms  
  R39.4 million ( 2.4 million) with firms with  
  R18.2 million ( 1.1 million) with youth- 
B-BBEE-compliant businesses (up 10%  
and 84.8% of HP s total spend with  
suppliers in South Africa in 2020).  
B-BBEE-compliant businesses (up 8% and  
61.1% of total spend).  
medium-sized businesses (up 16% and  
23.6% of total spend).  
with at least 51% Black ownership (down  
9% and 47.4% of total spend).  
at least 30% Black women ownership  
(down 15% and 18.0% of total spend).  
owned firms or firms owned by people with  
disabilities (up 14% and 8.3% of total spend). 
Environmental impact 
Our production and nonproduction suppliers  
are essential partners as we work to drive  
net zero carbon and resource-efficient  
transformation throughout the value chain.  
For more than a decade, we have worked  
closely with our suppliers to improve their  
environmental programs and report progress  
transparently. Our Sustainability Scorecard  
is central to our efforts to set expectations,  
evaluate our suppliers  performance, and  
drive ongoing improvement. See more detail  
about results. 
We periodically raise our expectations to  
motivate ongoing improvement. These  
include supplier environmental management  
criteria such as science-based GHG emissions  
reduction targets, third-party verification  
of GHG emissions, and publication of a  
GRI-based sustainability report, as well as  
transparent reporting through CDP of key  
environmental information, including GHG  
emissions, energy consumption, renewable  
energy use, and water management.  
We request 98% of our production  
suppliers, by spend, as well as strategic  
nonproduction suppliers, to disclose key  
qualitative and quantitative information  
about environmental management and  
impacts through HP s CDP Supply Chain  
membership. Requested information  
44  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
includes GHG emissions and goals, total and  
renewable energy use, water withdrawal,  
climate and water risks, and governance.  
To understand and manage our impacts, we  
calculate supply chain GHG emissions and  
water withdrawal in two ways:  
  In this section of the report, we include  
  The supply chain-related data included  
data reported by our first-tier production  
suppliers, product transportation  
suppliers, and nonproduction suppliers.  
This data reflects the volume of HP s  
business with each organization. Through  
engagement with suppliers, we can better  
understand and influence improvements  
in performance year over year. 
in our carbon and water footprints  
are derived from product life cycle  
assessment-based estimates. This  
analysis is intended to provide as  
complete an understanding as possible of  
impacts across the multiple levels of our  
supply chain, from materials extraction  
through manufacturing and product  
use, as well as retail and storage. These  
calculations use a combination of HP- 
specific and industry methods and data. 
Greenhouse gas  emissions  
In 2008, HP was the first major IT company  
to publish aggregated supply chain GHG  
emissions data. We continue working to drive  
progress in this area, including through our  
goals (see right). Our goal to reduce supply  
chain GHG emissions intensity is one of HP s  
three value chain goals validated by the  
Science Based Targets initiative. WWF has  
publicly supported this goal, 
rigor of our goal-setting process. 
For the fifth consecutive year, HP  was named by CDP to the Supplier  Engagement Leaderboard for the  company s actions and strategies to  reduce emissions and manage climate  risks in our supply chain. Learn more.  
Although GHG emissions intensity decreased  
by 3% between 2015 and 2019 when  
calculated as a three-year rolling average,  
yearly GHG emissions intensity values (not  
calculated as a rolling average) decreased by  
11% during that timeframe. Since 2010, HP  
1 confirming the  
has decreased first-tier production supplier  
and product transportation-related GHG  
emissions intensity by 28%. To help reach  
our goal, we focus our suppliers  attention  
on improving energy management and  
efficiency, using renewable energy, and  
setting science-based targets. 
GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY  
REDUCTION GOAL 
Reduce first-tier production supplier   
and product transportation-related   
GHG emissions intensity by 10% by 2025,  
compared to 2015 
PROGRESS THROUGH 2019 
GHG emissions intensity decreased 3%   
through 2019, compared to 2015  
GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTION GOAL 
Help suppliers cut 2 million tonnes of   
carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions  
between 2010 and 2025 
PROGRESS THROUGH 2020 
Suppliers avoided 1.38 million tonnes 
of CO2e emissions 
   2019 is the most recent year data is available.  
page 36), we set requirements for our  
production suppliers, including requirements  
related to energy use and GHG emissions  
performance and disclosure. 
During 2020, we continued engaging with  
suppliers to drive positive change. For  
example, we provided training outlining our  
environmental expectations and how those  
connect with our Sustainability Scorecard.  
Production suppliers  
Through our Sustainability Scorecard (see  
45  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
 Production supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions    Product transportation   Nonproduction supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
2019 2020 2017 2018 2016 
Supplier GHG emissions performance 
tonnes CO2e 
We also worked with other organizations to  
accelerate cross-sector improvements:  
  HP collaborated with the Responsible  
  In combination with the Renewable Energy  
  We continued to focus on capability  
Business Alliance (RBA) to update its  
Code of Conduct with specifics around  
GHG emissions-related goal setting  
and reporting. 
Buyers Alliance, we worked to promote  
renewable energy use in supply chains. 
building, which included a combined  
webinar with other companies and CDP on  
supplier water management and reporting. 
This demonstrates the scale of ongoing GHG  
emissions reduction activities throughout  
our production supply chain, regardless of  
whether driven by HP s engagement.  
In 2019, the most recent year that data  
is available, the suppliers that make HP  
products generated 3.0 million tonnes  
of Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions  
attributable to HP, 3% more than in 2018.  
Our Energy Efficiency Program in China  
and Southeast Asia, implemented in  
collaboration with NGOs such as BSR,  
Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC),  
the World Resources Institute, and WWF,  
helps suppliers to build capabilities, identify  
ways to improve energy efficiency, and  
explore the use of renewable energy. 
Since 2010, participants in these and other  
programs have avoided 1.38 million tonnes  
of CO2e emissions and saved a cumulative  
887 million kWh ( 114 million) of electricity,  
including 40 million kWh ( 5.1 million)  
More broadly, through CDP our production  
suppliers reported savings of 23 million  
tonnes of CO2e and  613 million from  
reduction initiatives implemented in 2019. 
Performance 
  HP and other large technology   
companies sent a joint letter to the  
key members of the IT supply chain to  
reinforce environmental expectations. 
This reflects business growth as well as the  
impact of two major suppliers that increased  
GHG emissions intensity due to expanded  
operations. However, the intensity of GHG  
emissions per HP annual revenue in 2019  
decreased by 11% compared to 2015. We  
expect suppliers to set science-based  
targets and reduce absolute emissions  
over time.  
We engaged 98% of our first-tier production  
suppliers, by spend, to help reduce their  
environmental impact. Overall, 94%  
reported having GHG emissions reduction- 
related goals, and 39% reported science- 
based targets. We also encourage suppliers  
to use renewable energy. 78% reported  
doing so in 2019, by spend, with 70%  
reporting renewable energy use goals, up  
from 47% the prior year. 
Product transportation  
To improve efficiency, cut costs, and reduce  
negative environmental impacts, we  
work to optimize our logistics network by  
consolidating shipments, identifying new  
routes, and shipping directly to customers or  
local distribution centers.  
We require our product transportation  
suppliers to use the Global Logistics  
Emissions Framework to standardize  
emission calculations. This system, which  
HP helped to develop in 2016 with the  
Global Logistics Emissions Council (GLEC),  
provides more specific, fuel-based or other  
GLEC-compliant data that accounts for  
variation in different locations. To drive  
progress across the industry and beyond, we  
are working with the Clean Cargo Working  
Group, Green Freight Asia, the United Nations  
Climate   Clean Air Coalition, and the U.S.  
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)  
SmartWay program.  
We continue to use SmartWay partners  
for 100% of our products shipped by  
truck in the United States and Canada. 
The program aims to help improve road  
transportation efficiency and reduce GHG  
and other emissions. In 2020, HP won the  
U.S. EPA SmartWay Excellence Award for  
the seventh year in a row, demonstrating  
leadership in freight supply chain energy and  
environmental performance for the  Large  
Shipper  category in the United States.  
Reducing packaging size and weight also  
has the potential to decrease GHG emissions  
associated with product transportation.  
See Packaging. 
Performance 
Product transportation resulted in  
1.54 million tonnes of CO2e emissions in  
2020, up significantly from the prior year.  
This was due primarily to our increased use  
of air freight in response to the COVID-19  
46  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
pandemic. To meet increased customer  
demand, including to support remote  
learning and working, we increased our use  
of air freight by 29% during 2020 to ship  
products in the most rapid way possible. 
Nonproduction suppliers  
We purchase a wide range of goods and  
services related to the operations of HP, such  
as staffing, business consulting, marketing,  
and travel. We prioritize collaboration  
with nonproduction suppliers based on  
geographical risk and industry and provide  
training to help improve reporting and  
reduce GHG emissions.  
Performance  
In 2019, the most recent year data is  
available, our nonproduction suppliers  
reported 190,000 tonnes of Scope 1 and  
Scope 2 CO2e emissions attributable to HP.  
During that year, 77% of HP nonproduction  
strategic suppliers produced environmental  
reports, the same as in 2018. We believe  
this level of disclosure is partly due to our  
engagement with nonproduction suppliers  
through the CDP Supply Chain program. 
Many of our suppliers operate in regions  
where water stress is a growing threat. We  
work with production suppliers to improve  
water management in their operations.  
To identify supplier sites located in  
water-stressed areas, we use water risk  
assessment tools such as the World  
Resources Institute s Aqueduct Water  
Risk Atlas tool. We also identify sites that  
manufacture relatively water-intense  
product types, and use this information  
to assess overall water stress risks and  
opportunities. We ask our suppliers to  
report water risk, use, and management  
information through the CDP Supply  
Chain program. This drives suppliers   
awareness of water security issues and  
allows us to assess suppliers  current water  
management strategies in the context of  
local environments and communities.  
We work with suppliers to improve water  
reporting and, when appropriate, we   
also work with suppliers to enhance water  
management practices, through use of  
best practice frameworks. We also support  
training, such as the  Water management and  
reporting for IT industry companies  webinar  
developed in conjunction with industry peers  
and presented by CDP, which addresses the  
importance of water in IT supply chains, how  
to carry out a water risk assessment, and  
best practice measurement and reporting.  
To further drive improvements, we include  
water stewardship criteria in our supplier  
Sustainability Scorecard. Suppliers are scored  
for transparently reporting quantitative  
water withdrawal as well as for having a  
public company-wide policy or governance  
structure for water at the board of director  
or top executive level.  
Performance  
In 2019, the most recent year data is  
available, production suppliers withdrew  
37 million cubic meters of water associated  
with HP, 6% more than in 2018. We believe  
that stronger supplier water accounting  
practices contributed to year-over-year  
variations in data. By the end of 2019, 92%  
of our suppliers, by spend, had set water  
management goals.  
See HP s 2020 water footprint. 
We work with production suppliers to  
encourage waste measurement and  
reporting, reduce waste volumes, and drive  
progress toward a circular economy. HP  
requests our suppliers report on waste using  
the RBA environmental survey.  
Performance  
During 2019, the most recent year data is  
available, our suppliers generated 148,000  
tonnes of nonhazardous waste associated  
with HP, a 3% increase from 2018. This was  
primarily due to increased waste reported by  
a major supplier resulting from construction  
47  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Supply chain transparency  
Much of our production supplier base is in China, so we have a particular focus in  
that area. The Corporate Information Transparency Index, developed by the Institute  
of Public and Environmental Affairs (IPE) and NRDC, evaluates the environmental  
practices of global brands  supply chains in China. In 2020, HP ranked  7 among  
global IT companies and  28 overall, of 538 brands assessed. On the Supply Chain  
Climate Action Index, developed by IPE and CDP, HP ranked  15 of 538 brands.  
During 2020, we continued encouraging our suppliers to submit inventories   
of substances released through IPE s public pollutant release and transfer   
register system.  
Also during the year, we cross-checked supplier sites representing 95% of our  
spend against IPE s public database of environmental violations. We identified one  
violation, and confirmed closure with the supplier. We also collaborated with first-tier  
manufacturing suppliers in China to determine whether sub-tier suppliers complied  
with local environmental laws. This review of almost 900 sub-tier suppliers identified  
39 reported violations in 2020. Of these, 16 have been corrected, and we continue  
working with the relevant first-tier suppliers and IPE to address and resolve the  
remaining issues. Business with several sub-tier suppliers has been suspended due   
to unaddressed environmental violations. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
of new facilities. Suppliers generated 53,000  
tonnes of hazardous waste associated with  
HP in 2019, down 5% compared to the prior  
year. This was due largely to significant  
reductions by three suppliers. By the end of  
2019, 72% of our production suppliers, by  
spend, had set waste-related goals, the  
same as the prior year. 
Performance monitoring  and evaluation 
To minimize the potential for supply  
chain-related risks, we work with suppliers  
and other stakeholders, focusing on  
empowering workers and raising standards.  
We engage with suppliers in multiple ways  
to understand performance, identify and  
address issues, and drive ongoing progress: 
  The supplier Self-Assessment  
  Coaching, specialized training, data  
  Key performance indicator (KPI)  
Questionnaire (SAQ). This includes  
detailed questions around social and  
environmental management and practices.  
As well as assisting HP to evaluate  
risk, identify areas for improvement,  
and determine a firm s inclusion in our  
audit program, self-assessment helps  
suppliers become more familiar with  
HP s expectations of conformance to  
our Supplier Code of Conduct. During  
2020, 167 production suppliers and 13  
nonproduction suppliers completed SAQs. 
collection, and ongoing dialogue. Using  
these mechanisms, we aim to help  
suppliers develop robust management  
systems to address root causes of key  
risks and challenges  for more detail, see  
capability building. 
monitoring program. We collect data  
from high-risk suppliers weekly on key  
  Supplier audits. Our supplier audit  
  Supplier sustainability assessments.  
issues such as working hours, day of rest,  
and student workers, and collaborate to  
drive ongoing improvement. See results. 
process is an essential component of our  
risk assessment framework and a key  
mechanism for identifying opportunities  
for sustained improvement with our  
suppliers. Supplier audits measure  
conformance with all provisions of the HP  
Supplier Code of Conduct in the areas of  
labor, health and safety, environmental,  
ethics, and management systems. See Our  
approach to a sustainable supply chain  
for detail about the audit process. We also  
worked with our final assembly suppliers  
to confirm they are conducting risk  
assessments of companies in their own  
supply chains that represent approximately  
80% of their spend and auditing 25% of  
sites determined to be high risk, based on  
the RBA Code of Conduct. 
We conduct targeted assessments to  
supplement our comprehensive audits,  
focusing on specific risk areas including  
vulnerable workers (such as student,  
dispatch, and foreign migrant workers)  
and health and safety (including fire  
safety and emergency preparedness).  
Performance 
In 2020, we completed 137 audits of  
production suppliers, product reuse and  
recycling vendors, and nonproduction  
suppliers, as well as three other  
assessments of production suppliers. Travel  
and factory restrictions as well as office  
closures related to COVID-19 decreased our  
ability to conduct these activities. During the  
48  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
HP has undergone Social  
Accountability International s (SAI)  
Social Fingerprint  Supply Chain  
Management Assessment to  
measure and improve social  
performance in both the company  
and our supply chain. This uses  
self-assessment and independent  
evaluation of eight key categories  
of supply chain management:  
policies, risk assessment, monitoring,  
integration, communication,  
tracking remediation, and  
complaint management. The most  
recent 2019 Social Fingerprint  
result placed HP among the  
highest-scoring SAI corporate  
members. The findings from this  
benchmark have reinforced the  
importance of HP capability- 
building programs focused on  
worker engagement and wellbeing. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
year, 90% of production supplier audits   
were third-party certified RBA Validated  
Assessment Program (VAP) audits. In  
addition to these audits, during 2020 we   
also conducted desk reviews with all final  
assembly suppliers and some commodity  
suppliers. This enabled us to maintain  
engagement with those suppliers despite  
travel restrictions, and discuss key issues  
including their responses to COVID-19. 
  Audits of production suppliers and suppliers supporting HP manufacturing followed the RBA Code of Conduct Audit Protocol  6.0. We contract with Environmental Resources Management (ERM) to audit product reuse and recycling vendors for  conformance with the following policies and vendor standards: Export of Electronic Waste to Developing Countries Policy,   HP Supplier Code of Conduct, and Reuse and Recycling Standards. See Product repair, reuse, and recycling for detail. Audits of  nonproduction suppliers supporting HP offices, off-site third-party nonproduction suppliers, and HP offices were focused on  labor, ethics, and management systems. 
Nonproduction suppliers 
Product supply chain 
HP operations 
Product reuse and recycling vendors 15 0 19 
Product transportation suppliers 0 0 0 
Suppliers supporting HP   manufacturing (on HP premises) 5 0 0 
Production suppliers 9 37 44 
Suppliers supporting HP offices   (on HP premises) 8 0 0 
HP offices 2 0 0 
Service suppliers (at third-party  premises) 0 0 0 
HP manufacturing sites 0 0 0 
Sustainability audits, 2020  
Initial audits   (initial evaluations  of conformance) 
We see a wide range of maturity levels in   
our audits, which are scored on a scale of  
0 200. In the RBA Factory LEAD Certification  
Program, suppliers with scores from 160 180  
are eligible for a Silver certification, and scores  
above 180 for a Gold certification (including  
25% of supplier facilities audited in 2020).  
Follow-up audits  (addressing  nonconformances  identified in any  corrective action plans) 
Full re-audits  (comprehensive  reassessments) 
% of full audits 
Health and safety assessments 1 
Onboarding assessments 1 
Vulnerable worker group (student and  foreign worker) assessments 1 
KPI validation assessments 0 
  160     100 160      100     Average score 
Distribution of scores of initial audits  and full re-audits 
Production supplier   sustainability assessments, 2020 
2016 2017 2020 2018 2019 
Average score 
  Includes immediate priority findings, non-immediate  priority nonconformances, and major nonconformances  identified. Data is from initial audits and full re-audits  of production suppliers conducted in 2020. Ethics is not  included because the percentage rounded to zero. Due to  our two-year audit cycle and changes to HP s supplier   base, data typically does not represent the same supplier  sites as the previous year.  
Over time, we have seen supplier audit  
scores increase. From 2018 to 2020, the  
percentage of production supplier initial  
audits and full re-audits that scored above  
160 increased from 48% to 51%. The  
average score during that period rose from  
142 to 151. Eleven audits during 2020 were  
of final assembly supplier sites. Of these,  
8 (73%) scored over 160, 2 (18%) scored  
between 100 and 160, and 1 (9%) scored  
under 100. The other 42 audits during 2020  
49  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Distribution of nonconformances   and findings by section of HP Supplier  Code of Conduct, 2020  
48% Labor  8% Environmental 
33% Health and safety  
11% Management systems  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
percentage of total  
were of commodity supplier sites. Of these,  
45% scored over 160, 40% scored between  
100 and 160, and 14% scored under 100. 
We periodically increase our expectations  
of suppliers, so suppliers must continually  
improve to maintain a consistent audit score.  
For example, in 2018 we adopted version  
6.0 of the RBA Code of Conduct, which  
includes requirements related to worker  
voice and training, pregnant and nursing  
women, process chemicals, and water  
management. During that year, we also  
added new environmental requirements to  
our Sustainability Scorecard. 
in this section focuses on major  
nonconformances. 
a supplier s ability to ensure that  
conditions conform to the HP  
Supplier Code of Conduct or General  
A minor nonconformance is not a  
systemic problem, but typically   
Detailed analysis of   audit results  
A major nonconformance is   
a significant failure in the  
management system that affects   
Specification for the Environment.   
an isolated finding. The data   
serious type of supplier nonconformance  
and require immediate action. In 2020, we  
Immediate   priority findings  
Immediate priority findings 
identified 10 immediate priority findings,  
equivalent to 0.19 findings on average  
for each initial audit and full re-audit of  
production suppliers conducted. Two  
issues related to charging of recruitment  
fees, one related to discrimination, one  
related to fire detection, and six related  
to fire exits. We required the issues to be  
immediately addressed and are working with  
the suppliers to complete remediation and  
implement corrective actions to adjust their  
management systems. 
Other findings 
For audits conducted in 2020, suppliers  
were in full conformance (no major  
nonconformances identified) for the  
following provisions: risk of child labor   
humane treatment  physically demanding  
work  health and safety communication   
pollution prevention and resource reduction   
no improper advantage  disclosure of  
information  intellectual property  fair  
business, advertising, and competition   
protection of identity and nonretaliation   
privacy  responsible sourcing of minerals   
2 are the most  
Six provisions (see table on page 50) out  
of 45 total represented 72% of all major  
worker feedback and participation  and  
documentation and records. Fifty-three  
initial audits and full re-audits of production  
suppliers conducted in 2020 identified 294  
major nonconformances, equivalent to 5.5  
per audit on average. 3  
nonconformances identified. We focus on  
these and other areas that have the greatest  
potential for improvement. 
HP requires suppliers to provide a  
detailed corrective action plan addressing  
all identified nonconformances within  
30 days of receipt of the site audit report  
(except immediate priority findings, which  
are addressed expeditiously), and have  
processes in place to monitor progress and  
subsequent closure of nonconformances.  
For details, see the RBA VAP Operations  
Manual and Our approach to a sustainable  
supply chain.  
   Data is from initial audits and full re-audits of production suppliers conducted in 2018 and 2020. Due to our two-year audit cycle and changes to HP s supplier base, data typically does not represent the same supplier sites as the previous cycle.  
    Percentage of sites with no immediate priority findings, non-immediate priority nonconformances, or major nonconformances identified.  
     The HP key performance indicator program measures the performance of HP production lines at participating supplier facilities, and not the overall performance of those facilities. In contrast, initial audits and full re-audits assess the overall performance of  
50  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Issue Rate of  conformance  2018   
Working hours 34% 19% Excessive working hours remains the most pressing labor challenge in our supply chain, especially around times of peak production and labor shortages.   Workers often voluntarily work long hours to earn more money, and suppliers may lack effective management systems in this area.  
Wages and benefits 55% 53% In countries without a set minimum wage, the industry prevailing wage applies. The most common issue in wages and benefits is suppliers not paying appropriate  social insurance. Examples of corrective actions related to wages and benefits include maintaining documentation of pay stubs and employer contributions to  worker insurance schemes, and worker communication. 
Occupational injury  and illness  71% 74% Most nonconformances relate to lack of documentation (medical records, injury logs, etc.), and certifications (occupational health certificates are required to fully  resolve a nonconformance). Suppliers are required to train all employees on a regular basis and report incidents to HP. In 2020, we continued to work directly with  suppliers with nonconformances, helping them understand and address our requirements. 
Emergency  preparedness 51% 57% Nonconformances include items such as blocked exit doors, missing or poorly lit exit signs, lack of fire exit instructions, and missing or defective emergency  equipment. Most can be quickly remedied, while some take longer, such as replacing all fire exit doors. We supplement our audits with specific health and safety  assessments. 
Occupational safety 55% 62% Nonconformances related primarily to current safety permits and first aid response reporting. Suppliers must have tracking mechanisms and keep documentation  of remediation and compensation provided to workers involved in an incident. A supplier with a nonconformance must also prove that training has been or will be  conducted within 180 days. 
Dormitory and  canteen  82% 75% Workers must be provided ready access to clean toilet facilities, potable water, and sanitary food preparation, storage, and eating facilities  and dormitories  provided by the supplier or a labor agent must be clean and safe. Corrective actions in this area are typically straightforward, such as ensuring exit signs are properly  illuminated, maintaining fire extinguishers, and having food samples available for quality and safety testing. 
supplier facilities where other brands in addition to HP may also manufacture products. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
Rate of  conformance  2020   HP s approach 
The rate of conformance decreased significantly in 2020 compared to 2018, partly due to COVID-19. Social distancing protocols reduced the number of workers  allowed in a factory at one time, and many factories had to make up production following extended closures. These factors both put pressure on working hours.  Although the RBA declared certain exemptions to working hours requirements of its Code of Conduct due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we audited suppliers during  2020 based on the regular requirements. 
Among suppliers in our KPI program (78 at the end of 2020 representing approximately 106,800 workers), 93% met our requirements related to working hours in  2020, compared to 95% in 2019.    This relatively small decrease demonstrated the ability of KPI program members to effectively manage this issue in the context of  changing production demands during an unusually challenging year.  
Some suppliers have dedicated lines for student and juvenile workers to facilitate conformance with overtime or night shift requirements. We provide training to  student workers and their managers about our requirements and their rights. 
Issues with lowest rates of conformance of sites audited, 2018 and 2020  
51  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Rates of conformance of sites audited, 2018 and 2020  
HP Supplier Code of Conduct section provision Rate of conformance of sites audited, 2018   
Labor 83% 84% 
Health and safety 76% 81% 
Environmental 88% 94% 
Freely chosen employment management systems 80% 91% 
Risk of forced labor 82% 91% 
Young worker protection management systems 92% 98% 
Risk of child labor 98% 100% 
Working hours 34% 19% 
Wages and benefits 55% 53% 
Humane treatment 98% 100% 
Nondiscrimination management systems 97% 96% 
Risk of discriminatory practices 97% 96% 
Freedom of association 100% 98% 
Occupational safety 55% 62% 
Emergency preparedness 51% 57% 
Occupational injury and illness 71% 74% 
Industrial hygiene 80% 85% 
Physically demanding work 89% 100% 
Machine safeguarding 92% 96% 
Dormitory and canteen 82% 75% 
Health and safety communication 89% 100% 
Environmental permits and reporting 83% 94% 
Pollution prevention and resource reduction 89% 100% 
Hazardous substances 71% 77% 
Wastewater and solid waste 97% 92% 
Air emissions 89% 98% 
Storm water management 91% 98% 
Energy consumption and GHG emissions 97% 98% 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
Rate of conformance of sites audited, 2020   
   Data is from initial audits and full re-audits of production suppliers conducted in 2018 and 2020. Due to our two-year audit  
    Percentage of sites with no immediate priority findings, non-immediate priority nonconformances, or major nonconformances  
HP Supplier Code of Conduct section provision Rate of conformance of sites audited, 2018   
Ethics 99% 99% 
Management systems 94% 95% 
cycle and changes to HP s supplier base, data typically does not represent the same supplier sites as the previous cycle.  
identified. Data refers to the RBA Code of Conduct Audit Protocol 6.0.  
Business integrity 98% 98% 
No improper advantage 100% 100% 
Disclosure of information 95% 100% 
Intellectual property 100% 100% 
Fair business, advertising, and competition 98% 100% 
Protection of identity and nonretaliation 100% 100% 
Responsible sourcing of minerals 98% 100% 
Privacy 98% 100% 
Company commitment 98% 98% 
Management accountability and responsibility 95% 96% 
Legal and customer requirements 97% 94% 
Risk assessment and risk management 95% 94% 
Performance objectives with implementation plan   and measures 
Training 95% 96% 
Communication 97% 98% 
Worker feedback and participation 97% 100% 
Audits and assessments 94% 96% 
Corrective action process 95% 96% 
Documentation and records 98% 100% 
Supplier responsibility 72% 77% 
Rate of conformance of sites audited, 2020   
Supply chain responsibility  
52  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Suppliers publishing sustainability reports using  the GRI framework [% of production supplier spend] 
Capability building 
Workers  rights 
Workers at sites audited   [total] 96,400 162,300 244,700 198,300 229,400  
Sustainability audits and other assessments [total] 
Sustainability Scorecard average score  Commodity suppliers    
Number of capability-building programs 14 15 10 7 5 
Workers reached through capability-building  programs    
Suppliers  employees working 60 hours per  week or less on average    
Suppliers  employees receiving at least one day  of rest each seven-day workweek    
Suppliers in China with student workers  representing 20% or less of total employees    
Immediate priority audit findings (immediate  action required) related to the ILO Declaration  on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work:  freedom of association  forced, bonded, or  indentured labor  child labor  or discrimination  
Immediate priority audit findings (immediate  action required) related to occupational safety,  emergency preparedness, or industrial hygiene  
Initial audits 58 47 17 103 22 
Follow-up audits 67 39 45 41 37 
Full re-audits 30 30 55 43  44 
Assessments 29 34 43 60 3 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
45,700 119,900 12,000 11,000  46,000 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
89% 92% 94% 95%  93% 
98% 100% 99% 99%  100% 
86% 82% 88% 91%  91% 
96% 98% 98% 99%  97% 
78% 85% 87% 86% 89% 
    With the exception of train-the-trainer programs, HP only accounts for workers directly reached by our capability-building  
     Based on production-line workers at final assembly and select commodity sites participating in the HP KPI program. We  
    See page 49 for detail.  
    These totals are the number of workers as of the date of the site visit according to production supplier initial audit and full  
     Scores reflect performance against criteria that are updated periodically. 
    Data in this table for 2018 is specific to production suppliers, except the following included in Sustainability audits and other  assessments: five initial audits, two full re-audits, three onboarding assessments, and seven supplier assessments of  nonproduction suppliers  and four assessments of product transportation suppliers. Data in this table for 2019 is specific  to production suppliers, except the following included in Sustainability audits and other assessments: 64 initial audits of  nonproduction suppliers and 17 initial audits of product transportation suppliers. Data in this table for 2020 is specific  to production suppliers, except the following included in Sustainability audits and other assessments: 13 initial audits of  nonproduction suppliers. Data is not included in this table for product reuse and recycling vendors. See page 86 for  information about our programs and performance in that area. 
    Data is for the 12 months ending September 30 of the year noted. Figures are for purchases in the United States and  Puerto Rico from U.S.-based businesses. 2019 data reflects a refined calculation methodology. Data for prior years are not  comparable, and therefore not included in this report. 
    Suppliers are categorized as minority-owned or women-owned, not both. These categories include all sizes of businesses. 
     These categories include all sizes of businesses. 
HP s spend with U.S. diverse suppliers     millions 
Small businesses   322 25.7%  370 29.8% 
Minority-owned businesses     78 6.0%  100 8.0% 
Women-owned businesses     45 3.5%  103 8.3% 
Sustainability Scorecard average score   Final assembly suppliers    
Rates of conformance of sites audited, 2018 and 2020 (see page 51) 
Veteran-owned businesses, service-disabled veteran-owned  businesses, HUBZone businesses, and others    
programs. Number of workers reached each year depends on the programs executed  some programs address issues   broadly across suppliers and workers  other programs focus more narrowly on individual supplier sites or specific vulnerable  worker groups. Prior to 2020, data included production supplier workers only. In 2020, we expanded the scope of our  program to also include nonproduction supplier workers and workers at HP-controlled manufacturing facilities. 
continue to expand the list of suppliers in the KPI program based on business risk, country risk, and identified nonconformances. 
re-audit reports. HP s UK Modern Slavery Act (MSA) Transparency Statement for 2017 reported that we had identified 199,432  workers based on audits conducted at many of our suppliers  sites. HP learned, after finalizing its UK MSA, that the reported  data overstated the number of workers by inadvertently including audit reports from 2016 in addition to 2017. In 2017, there  were 162,300 workers at the sites for which we are reporting audit performance information in this report. 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
72% 84% 88% 83% 82% 
 18 1.5%  23 1.8% 
qualified  
  millions 
qualified  
Environmental impact  
53  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Production suppliers with water-related  goals [% of spend] 
Production supplier nonhazardous waste  generation  ,    [tonnes] 
Production supplier hazardous waste  generation  ,   [tonnes] 
Production suppliers with waste-related  goals [% of spend] 
First-tier production supplier and product  transportation-related GHG emissions  intensity ,    [tonnes CO2e   million of HP  net revenue] 
Production supplier GHG emissions      [tonnes CO2e] 
Production suppliers with GHG emissions  reduction-related goals [% of spend] 
Product transportation GHG emissions   [tonnes CO2e]  
Nonproduction supplier Scope 1 and  Scope 2 GHG emissions  ,     [tonnes CO2e] 
Production supplier energy use      [MWh] 6,400,000 5,500,000 5,900,000  6,400,000 
Production supplier renewable energy use  [% of total energy use] 
Production suppliers that reported using  renewable energy   [% of spend] 
Production supplier water withdrawal for  use  ,   [cubic meters] 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions    2,600,000 2,800,000 2,900,000 3,000,000 
Scope 3 emissions  ,      11,500,000 7,800,000 13,200,000  11,500,000 
Road (includes rail) 350,000 350,000 410,000 400,000   190,000   
Ocean 150,000 160,000 180,000 90,000 100,000 
Air 700,000 740,000 710,000 970,000 1,250,000 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 
31,000,000 34,000,000 35,000,000 37,000,000 
1,200,000 1,250,000 1,300,000 1,460,000 1,540,000 
270,000 230,000 210,000  190,000 
121,000 123,000 144,000 148,000 
51,000 48,000 56,000  53,000 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
80% 92% 93%  92% 
62% 59% 72%  72% 
94% 94% 94%  94% 
79.4 80.1 76.4  78.4 
54% 77% 78%  78%   
15% 22% 23% 25%   
    We believe that data for the  Road (includes rail)  segment were overstated for 2019, due to incorrect data from a single  
     Emissions are estimated based on suppliers  emissions and their dollar volume of HP business compared to their total  
     Total energy includes purchased energy (electricity, etc.) and generated energy (fuel use, etc.). Energy use data is calculated  
    This metric reports the amount of water withdrawn by suppliers, not the amount consumed by our multi-tier supply chain  
    Waste data is estimated based on suppliers  waste data and their dollar volume of HP business compared to their total  
    In some cases, data from prior years is updated to reflect improved data  for example, revised supplier information. 
    Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier production and product transportation suppliers  reported GHG emissions  
    We believe that variation in this data reflects both changes in actual performance and inconsistency in reporting practices. 
     Emissions are calculated based on suppliers  reported emissions and their dollar volume of HP s business compared to their  
      Suppliers may not report all Scope 3 categories. The number of categories reported by suppliers and the completeness of  
    The figures for product transportation GHG emissions are based on data reported by product transportation suppliers that  
HP contracted to deliver products. They may differ from the product life cycle assessment-based estimates presented on  page 22, which are based on a different calculation methodology, use a combination of HP-specific and industry data, and  include additional upstream and downstream transportation related to the company s products.  
product transportation supplier. Updated data are not available at the time of publication of the HP 2020 Sustainable  Impact Report, but we plan to update that data as needed in the future. 
revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar-year basis. The year 2019 is the most recent for which data  is available. Data reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of strategic nonproduction suppliers. Data collected for 2019  represented 40% of HP nonproduction spend. 
based on suppliers  reported energy use and their dollar volume of HP s business compared to their total revenue. Data  reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected for 2019 represented 93% of  HP production spend. 
as reported in our water footprint on page 23. Because water withdrawn can also be returned, this footprint is inherently  larger. Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. Withdrawal is estimated based on  suppliers  reported water withdrawal and their dollar volume of HP business compared to their total revenue. The majority  of these companies report on a calendar-year basis. The year 2019 is the most recent for which data is available. Data  reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected for 2019 represented 94% of  HP production spend. 
revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar-year basis. The year 2019 is the most recent for which data  is available. Data reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected for 2019  represented 88% of HP production spend for nonhazardous waste and 81% for hazardous waste.  
attributable to HP divided by HP s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity.  Intensity is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease the impact of variance year over year and highlight longer- term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. The year 2019 is the most recent for which  data is available. 
total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar-year basis. Data reported here reflects extrapolation  to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected for 2019 represented 95% of HP production spend. The World  Resources Institute defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol. This data differs from the  product life cycle assessment-based estimates for materials extraction through manufacturing presented on page 22,  which are based on a different calculation methodology and use a combination of HP-specific and industry data. The year  2019 is the most recent for which data is available. 
reporting varies year to year. 
Operations 
55 Our employees  
63 Our facilities  
69 Community giving and volunteerism  
54  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Appendix Integrity and human rights Footprint Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions 
and bring our vision to life. They power  
our innovation, contributing unique  
perspectives and a growth mindset to  
create breakthrough technologies and  
transformative solutions. We are committed  
to fostering a diverse, equitable, and  
inclusive workplace that attracts and  
retains exceptional talent. Through ongoing  
employee development, comprehensive  
Our employees 
Every day, HP s approximately 53,000  
employees 1 worldwide shape our future  
compensation and benefits, and a focus on  
  Board of Directors data for 2020 are as of the conclusion of the 2021 annual meeting of stockholders on April 13, 2021. Board of Directors data for 2019 are as of November 1, 2019. Board of Directors data for 2018 are as of January 31, 2019.   Other data are as of October 31 of the year noted. Employee data refers to regular full-time and part-time employees.  
55  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
health and safety and wellbeing, we help our  
employees thrive and succeed. 
Racial ethnic minorities 
Board of Directors 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
Women in leadership 
Director level and above 
Executives reporting directly to CEO 
In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic had  
a profound impact on HP. As the crisis  
unfolded, we focused first and foremost on  
keeping our employees and their families  
safe. We took an integrated approach to help  
our teams manage their work and personal  
responsibilities, including by offering work  
from home, flextime, leaves of absence,  
and job sharing, plus enhanced benefits and  
resources to support employees  physical,  
mental, and financial wellbeing. We created  
HP Spirit, a new employee engagement  
approach, to provide employees a broad range  
of programs, activities, and virtual gatherings  
to help them transition to working from home  
and stay healthy, positive, and productive.  
Technical roles 
Women in IT and engineering 
HP demographics  
Connection, an online development  
series. We also provided robust internal  
communications, including weekly email  
messages,  Connect with Enrique  virtual  
sessions, and town halls, to keep our  
employees around the world informed  
and engaged as the pandemic unfolded.  
To help managers lead teams more  
effectively in the suddenly mobile  
environment, we launched Manager  
Demonstrating the effectiveness of this  
work, employees  perceptions of HP as  
a  great place to work  increased nine  
percentage points between January and  
June 2020. 
Revenue-generating roles 
Women in sales roles (all levels) 
Diversity, equity,   and inclusion 
Recent events have laid bare the systemic  
racism and deep inequalities that remain a  
stain on American society and societies in  
many other countries. It is imperative that  
companies take a stand and act with urgency  
and a plan for sustainable impact. Corporate  
commitments and actions as to equity and  
inclusion were brought into even sharper  
focus in the wake of George Floyd s death  
on May 25, 2020, and the momentum of the  
Black Lives Matter movement.  
Global functions 
Women in legal, finance, HR, marketing,  and communications (on average) 
For HP, there has never been a more  
important time for us to live by the values  
on which our company was founded, and  
we are dedicated to doing the hard work  
needed to help stamp out systemic racism  
and discrimination. We have renewed and  
amplified our commitment to diversity,  
equity, and inclusion, building on initiatives  
and milestones over several decades. To  
drive progress in this area, during 2020 we  
established the HP Racial Equality and Social  
Justice Task Force (see box).  
56  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
HP Racial Equality and Social Justice Task Force 
In 2020, we formed the HP Racial Equality and Social Justice Task Force. This entity  
works to identify and execute on the biggest opportunities we have as a company  
to advance sustainable impact in racial equality across three main areas: 
We established additional company performance goals to drive and accelerate  
progress in this area. We will provide updates annually through our Sustainable  
Impact Report and website.  
Learn more.  
   People: We will accelerate the strategies, practices, and policies around pipeline,  
   Industry: We will leverage our industry leadership and spending power to  
   Local and national: We will advocate for Black African Americans through public  
retention, and promotion for Black African American talent with our leaders,  
managers, and employees.  
influence our ecosystem, including our partners, vendors, and suppliers.  
policy, civic action, and clear corporate positions on local and national issues.  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
During the year, we also held a series of  
virtual town hall meetings focused on racial  
equality for all employees, hosted by our  
CEO Enrique Lores and Chief Diversity Officer  
Lesley Slaton Brown. These events were  
designed to explore new thinking, encourage  
understanding, conversation, and advocacy,  
and highlight the company s commitments  
on fighting systemic racism and inequality.  
They were attended live or replayed more  
than 16,600 times by employees around  
the world. 
We also collaborate and partner externally.  
For example, we have signed an agreement  
with UN Women to advance education,  
entrepreneurship, and digital learning for  
We want to be a leading brand for racial  
equality and social justice in the technology  
industry. We set a goal to double the number  
of Black African American HP executives  
(VP level and above) in the United States by  
2025, starting with 2020 as our baseline.  
We also set a goal to double Black African  
American technical representation in the  
United States, during the same timeframe. 
Advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion  
makes our business stronger. Diversity  
drives innovation. Innovation springs from  
the rich and diverse cultures, ethnicities,  
perspectives, knowledge, and experience  
of our employees, and diverse teams create  
transformative solutions that better serve  
our customers. McKinsey has found that  
companies with more women and greater  
ethnic diversity at the executive level are  
more profitable, and that companies with  
more diverse boardrooms enjoy significantly  
higher earnings and return on equity. 
A strong policy framework supports our  
efforts and includes our Global Best Work  
women and girls in five priority countries:  
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Morocco,  
Nigeria, Senegal, and South Africa. We also  
support the Human Rights Campaign s  
Environment Policy and Open Door Policy.  
Conduct for Business. 
Business Coalition for the Equality Act  
related to LGBTQ  workplace rights, as well  
as the UN Human Rights Office Standards of  
In 2020, the HP Foundation pledged   500,000 to social justice organizations  in the United States as part of broader  efforts to combat systemic racism,  as well as two-to-one matching of  employee donations. 
Recognition  
HP has once again been recognized in  
leading benchmarks related to diversity,  
equity, and inclusion. For example: 
  Named in Forbes World s Best Employers  
  HP Global Pride was selected as winner of  
  Recognized as part of Fortune s 2020 Best  
  Named as a Culture Champion in 2020   
2020 list for the third year in a row. HP  
rose to  17 with special mention for our  
COVID-19 response, which included support  
for families and underrepresented groups. 
the Employee Resource Group of the Year  
Outie award by Out   Equal.  
Large Workplaces for Women list.  
a new honor from the MIT Sloan  
Management Review and Glassdoor  
Culture 500. 
Learn more about recent awards and  
recognitions in this area. 
Commitment from the top  
HP s Board of Directors is one of the most  
diverse of any U.S. technology company.  
We are also among the top technology  
companies for women in executive positions.  
Women represent 29.6% of the company s  
full-time executive positions, up from  
18.3% in 2015, 
directors, compared to 22.7% in 2015. 
of the end of 2020, HP had 10 Distinguished  
Technologists Strategists who are women,  
up from three in 2015, and one HP Fellow  
who is a woman, up from none in 2015. 
See detailed employee demographics data. 
Our Global Diversity Advisory Board (GDAB)  
influences, guides, and holds accountable  
our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion team  
within Human Resources, which drives our  
global strategy. The GDAB is composed  
of key business leaders from across our  
commercial markets who provide thought  
leadership from a regional perspective. In  
2020, the GDAB expanded to 20 members. 
Diversity, equity, and inclusion are key parts  
of leadership discussions, and are standing  
topics on leadership quarterly business  
reviews. Our executive leadership team  
members are evaluated on their actions to  
advance diversity, equity, and inclusion.  
57  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
  100% in Disability:IN Disability Equality  
Index, for the fifth consecutive year. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
2 and 32.3% of full-time  
We are committed to increasing  
representation of women overall, but  
particularly in leadership and technical roles  
globally, as well as representation of  
underrepresented minorities in the United  
States. During 2020, 62.0% of U.S. hires  
were from underrepresented groups,  
including women, U.S. ethnicities, people  
with disabilities, and military veterans. In  
2016, HP committed to hiring 150 veterans  
or military spouses over the course of five  
years. Through 2020, we hired 241 veterans,  
exceeding our target by 61%. 
Our CEO Enrique Lores took the CEO  
Action for Diversity   InclusionTM  
pledge in February 2020, on behalf  
of HP, to advance diversity and  
inclusion in the workplace. He also  
joined the governing committee  
of the CEO Action for Racial Equity,  
a new fellowship that provides  
the opportunity for signatories  
to advance racial equity through  
public policy. 
2030 GENDER INCLUSION GOALS 
Achieve 50 50 gender equality in   
HP leadership by 2030 
Achieve greater than 30% technical   
women and women in engineering   
Belong, Innovate, and Grow  
Our Belong, Innovate, and Grow (BIG)  
strategy embeds diversity, equity, and  
inclusion across all parts of our businesses  
and functions, including into talent  
acquisition and development, culture,  
mentoring, training, and events. During  
2020, employee survey results continued to  
improve related to diversity and belonging  
(see graphs on next page). 
We have 123 Business Impact Networks  
(BINs) in 29 countries,6 up from 113 at the  
start of 2020. This includes two new remote  
groups in the United States the Remote  
Black Employee Impact Network and the  
Women s Impact Network U.S. Remote. A  
number of groups maintained employee  
engagement by becoming virtual due to the  
COVID-19 pandemic. Our BINs are open to  
all employees and represent the following  
constituencies: Black African American,  
Disabilities, Hispanic Latino, LGBTQ ,  
Multicultural, Pan Asian, Veterans, Women,  
and Multigenerational. In addition to leading  
many community outreach programs, BINs  
promote diversity in pipeline development,  
local hiring, talent programs, and mentoring.  
They leverage our global diversity strategy  
to execute campaigns such as International  
Women s Week and ALLIES HP, a workshop  
for LGBTQ  allies that launched as part of  
our HP Pride Month initiatives. 
In 2020, 96% of participants in HP Catalyst  
(our 18-month emerging leaders program)  
were women, and 37% of participants  
since 2017 were subsequently promoted or  
accepted a new role internally. See Employee  
development for more information. This  
program is complemented by specific  
women s leadership initiatives around the  
world, such as Disha, a six-month program  
in India  the Talent Development Program  
and Women in Leadership Lab in Mexico  the  
annual women s leadership conference in  
the United States  and WOLFpack, an eight- 
month women s development program in  
Costa Rica. 
Recognizing the systemic barriers that exist  
to diverse representation in leadership and  
the importance of sponsorship in career  
development, we have increased our  
investment in the development of Black  
African American leaders. We expanded our  
Catalyst development program in 2020 to  
include a cohort focused on Black African  
American employees in the United States. 
HP and the Information Technology Senior  
Management Forum (ITSMF), which works  
to increase the representation of Black  
professionals at senior levels in technology,  
have continued a partnership to train  
and develop IT leaders in ITSMF s annual  
Management Academy. Through 2020, we  
sponsored 12 HP employees in this program.  
All 10 who have graduated so far have been  
promoted to management at HP or have  
moved into new or expanded roles with  
increased responsibilities.  
Four HP leaders are attending the McKinsey  
Black Leadership Academy, which hones  
executive leadership capabilities with a  
focus on real-world challenges and driving  
transformative personal and professional  
change through a series of expert-led  
virtual and small group discussions over  
three months. 
Recognizing that traditional hiring practices  
can screen out qualified and talented  
applicants with autism, in 2019 we launched  
our Spectrum Success program partnership  
with Vocational Rehabilitation and PROVAIL,  
focusing on recruitment, hiring, and  
retention. Of the 10 participants through  
2020, three were offered internships.  
Watch video. 
As part of our efforts to attract and retain  
individuals with disabilities, participants   
in our China HOPE (HP Opportunity and  
Equality) program spend half of their time at  
HP working in a business unit and the other  
half learning business skills. Through the end  
of 2020, all HOPE participants had completed  
the program and become full-time hires.   
In India, we work with colleges to find  
candidates to join our Eklavya program,  
which offers interns on-the-job training and  
coaches employees on interacting and  
communicating with persons with disabilities. 
58  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
   Data refers to the percentage of HP 2017, 2018, 2019, and  2020 Voice Insight Action (VIA) employee survey respondents  who strongly agreed or agreed with each statement. 
Disrupting bias 
We are committed to being the employer  
of choice among women, ethnic racial,  
and other underrepresented groups. Our  
Reinvent Mindsets video series shines a light  
on unconscious bias and builds empathy by  
presenting scenarios through the lenses of  
underrepresented groups.  
I feel HP values diversity 
I can be myself at work 
 2017     2018     2019     2020 
Employee survey results   Diversity and inclusion 
See Supplier diversity for more detail. 
In 2019, we integrated DEI training into  
our Belong at HP development and  
sponsorship program. Now in a virtual  
format, the program hosted 25 workshops  
in 2020, with 343 participants across 28  
countries, focusing on inclusive mindsets  
and behaviors, including in our recruitment  
processes. Since its launch in 2018, nearly  
1,500 employees have completed the  
program. In 2020, to accelerate our impact,  
we introduced Reinventing Inclusion a  
90-minute interactive webcast designed  
to disrupt bias and to build a culture of  
intentional inclusion in our workspaces.  
These sessions, hosted by HP s most  
senior leaders, were made available to all  
employees. During the year, approximately  
10,000 employees participated. 
Raising standards and practices  through our partnerships and   in our supply chain 
We encourage our suppliers and partners  
to prioritize diversity, equity, and inclusion  
within their own operations. This includes  
challenging our largest U.S.-based marketing  
agencies and law firms to significantly  
increase representation of women and  
minorities working on HP accounts, and to  
support diversity in the financial sector.   
In our communities  
We continue to engage with several leading  
industry organizations and conferences  
that promote women, minority, veteran  
and LGBTQ  representation and causes in  
technology, including the National HBCU  
Business Deans Roundtable, National  
Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), Society  
of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE),  
National Association of Multicultural  
Engineering Program Advocates (NAMEPA)  
Inc., Society of Women Engineers, and  
European Women in Technology.  
To inspire more girls and minority students  
to consider STEM (science, technology,  
engineering, and math) careers, we  
continued our collaboration with UN Women  
and our partnerships with organizations such  
as Girl Rising, AnitaB.org, Black ComputeHER,  
Black Girls Code, Breakline, and the YWCA s  
Curated Pathways to Innovation. 
Historically Black Colleges and Universities  
(HBCUs) in the United States produce 40%  
of Black engineering graduates and 47%  
of Black female engineering graduates. We  
partner with HBCUs to work to increase the  
representation of Black engineers in the  
high-tech workforce and dispel the myth of  
the  pipeline problem  for qualified young  
Black candidates.  
The HBCU Business Challenge, with the  
National HBCU Business Deans Roundtable  
and the NSBE tasks business school students  
to tackle critical business problems, while  
gaining valuable industry experience and  
expanding employer networks. The 2020  
event focused on distance learning, asking  
students for creative problem-solving to  
address the challenges faced by the working  
and academic worlds in the shift to a remote  
and digital environment. Twenty-one schools  
participated, including the winning team  
from Howard University. Previous challenges  
attracted more than 300 students across  
44 HBCUs. Since 2017 and through February  
2020, we ve hired 10 summer interns from  
the HBCU Business Challenge, four of whom  
accepted full-time positions at HP.  
In March 2020, we launched a pilot  
learning program with North Carolina  
A T State University, providing HP Multi  
Jet Fusion 3D printing equipment and  
making a commitment for internships and  
apprenticeships to the university s College  
of Engineering and College of Science    
Technology. This pilot will inform plans  
for a broader initiative with HBCUs in the  
coming years. 
We are a member of the NSBE Board of  
Corporate Affiliates, and in 2020 HP   
COVID-19 pandemic, we funded the University  
of California, Merced (a Hispanic-serving  
institution) Student Relief Fund and the  
HBCUvc Relief Fund. 
59  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
was recognized as the Corporate Sponsor   
of the Year by the NSBE Houston  
Professionals Chapter. 
To support students impacted by the  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
We regularly collect feedback to better  
understand and improve the employee  
experience and identify opportunities to  
continually strengthen our culture. In 2020,  
Employee  engagement 
Listening and communication are at the  
heart of our approach as we continue to  
drive engagement in three focus areas: 
96% of employees participated in our annual  
Voice Insight Action (VIA) survey.  
Overall, 82% of participants had a favorable  
view of the employee experience, based  
on our updated methodology. Using our  
previous measurement approach, employee  
engagement was 79% in 2020, up from 74% 
in 2019 and three percentage points above  
the threshold for the top quartile.  
  Develop our people: Support digital  
  Strengthen our culture: Building on our  
  Shape the employee experience: Deliver   
a people-centered, consistent, HP Way- 
aligned employee experience that supports  
our mobility, digital transformation, and  
customer-focused initiatives. 
literacy and personal growth, and recruit,  
retain, and develop key talent. 
values, drive a customer-first culture,  
promote key leadership behaviors, and  
provide a great onboarding experience. 
to 2020 and that the percentage of  
respondents that believe HP is socially and  
environmentally responsible continued to  
HOW HP IS RESPONDING TO COVID-19?  93% amount info right enough 
Against the background of our company  
responses to the COVID-19 pandemic and  
the Black Lives Matter movement, we   
were pleased that employee engagement  
rose five percentage points from 2019   
increase (see graphic). 
2020 Voice Insight Action survey:  Highlights  
HP EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
TAKING EVERYTHING INTO ACCOUNT,   
HP IS A GREAT PLACE TO WORK.  90% 
GETTING ENOUGH INFORMATION ABOUT   
  May 2020 Quick Clicks survey 
HP is certified as a Great Place to Work  
(GPTW), based on GPTW s survey of our  
employees. Our GPTW rating increased three  
points year over year. See also Recognition. 
 5 percentage points from 2019 
  Data refers to the percentage of HP 2017 VIA, 2018 VIA, 2019  VIA, and 2020 Quick Clicks employee survey respondents  who strongly agreed or agreed with the statement. 
Employee  development 
Human capital development underpins our  
efforts to reinvent and transform HP. Our  
employees  talent, diversity, and drive fuel  
HP, and we invest in their career growth.  
We are passionate about supporting an  
inclusive culture and practicing a growth  
mindset to unlock business innovation  
and opportunities. 
The start of the pandemic in early  
2020 accelerated our transition toward  
more holistic approaches of employee  
development, with additional trainings  
supporting employee wellbeing and remote  
working. More than 16,000 employees  
  HP is socially and environmentally responsible 
2017 2018 2019 2020 
Employee survey results    Sustainable Impact 
percentage of employees 
participated in new live virtual presentation  
and communication skill-building trainings.  
We delivered the first HP Summer Scholars  
Program, a development experience for  
interns impacted by COVID-19 restrictions  
that provided valuable business acumen to  
more than 600 university students across  
the United States. 
During the year, our executive leadership  
team facilitated racial equality and social  
justice conversations throughout the  
organization to deepen understanding of  
and commitment to HP s diversity, equity,  
and inclusion goals.  
Personalized development  
Employees participate in a wide range  
of development opportunities, including  
virtual, social, self-directed, mentoring,  
coaching, and where safely permissible,  
face-to-face and external development.  
We offer a variety of collaborative learning  
experiences, connection to a network  
of subject matter experts, and a social  
learning platform that enables employees to  
integrate development into daily routines. 
In 2020, 98% of employees participated in  
learning and development activities, and  
we estimate that employees (on average)  
spent more than 32 hours 
development activities through the year.  
The 2020 VIA survey revealed that 83% of  
employees agree that HP actively supports  
their learning and development. 
60  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
8 participating in  
We began new investment during the  
year in development tools that further  
personalize digital and social learning  
content, identify skill levels, and improve  
access to opportunities through an internal  
talent marketplace. 
Leadership development   and talent 
We use a multi-tiered leadership curriculum  
to develop people managers at all levels  
of HP. During 2020, we delivered 112  
leadership development experiences (mostly  
virtual) with over 11,400 participants. Our  
leadership programs combine self-directed  
learning with experiential workshops to  
enable shared learning and networking.  
We also launched New Manager Journey,  
a 12-month virtual development program,  
for more than 250 newly appointed  
people managers. 
To maximize support for people managers,  
we also launched Manager Connection,   
a new virtual development series, focused  
on building skills in remote leadership,  
operational excellence, and business acumen.  
More than 5,000 managers participated   
We continued to develop the future  
leadership pipeline by investing in emerging  
and underrepresented talent through formal  
programs, mentoring, and sponsorship.  
Our programs focus on team development,  
future of work, new business models, and  
opportunities to deepen inclusion and  
growth mindset practices. In 2020, 150  
emerging leaders commenced the HP  
Catalyst program, including a dedicated  
cohort for Black African American people  
managers. This 18-month development  
experience designed for emerging leaders  
strengthens leadership capabilities through  
monthly peer mentoring, coaching, and  
guidance from senior sponsors.  
Emerging future executives are invited to  
attend the Executive Leadership Experience,  
a six-month blended development program.  
Participants work directly with the HP  
executive leadership team and external  
experts on business strategy, scenario  
planning, immersion exercises, and  
authentic leadership. Eighty-three percent  
of participants in our first cohort were  
promoted or expanded their current role. 
Digital skills  
As technology transforms the world, we are  
developing digital skill capabilities across  
HP to fuel our future productivity, product  
development, and technology innovation  
strategies. Being digitally powered and  
data enabled supports the company s  
transformation strategy.  
In 2020, we launched HP s digital literacy  
campaign, Speak Digital, to all employees to  
increase knowledge of digital technologies  
and emerging trends in customer experience  
and innovation. By the end of the year, more  
than 70% of employees had successfully  
completed digital knowledge assessments  
and received a digital literacy badge. We also  
launched the HP Digital Explorer series to  
deepen insights in the application of digital  
skills in process and product design. 
Career pathways  
HP fosters a growth mindset that empowers  
all employees to continuously develop and  
own their careers. We equip managers to  
support and coach their teams, and our 2020  
VIA engagement survey showed that 79% of  
employees believe their career goals can be  
met at HP. In 2020, 41% of job vacancies at  
HP were filled internally by employees, and  
69% of senior executive roles were filled by  
internal leaders.  
Our Power Your Possible platform helps  
employees identify new learning and  
pathways to support their career plans and  
enable future job opportunities. Additionally,  
the HP Degree Assistance Program provides  
funding to more than 500 employees  
worldwide each year to invest in and transform  
their careers through higher education.  
We continue to emphasize the connection  
between performance management and  
career development to managers and  
employees, and the 2020 VIA survey  
highlighted that 84% of respondents  
believe they have what they need to build  
new skills and or stretch beyond their  
current capabilities. 
Performance management  and feedback  
HP has a strong feedback-based approach  
to performance management. In the last  
year, 99% of eligible employees received  
multidimensional and objective-based  
performance evaluations. The 2020 VIA  
survey highlighted that 85% of employees  
believe they receive feedback throughout  
the year that allows them to improve  
their performance. 
In 2020, HP launched a new Ongoing  
Conversation Tool for managers to increase  
the frequency and quality of performance  
and development conversations. The  
outcomes of these interactions are  
reflected in employees  individual annual  
development plans, and result in ongoing  
development experiences, stretch projects,  
and advancement to new roles.  
61  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
Compensation   and benefits 
HP offers a comprehensive Total Rewards  
package that is both performance based and  
market competitive. Total Rewards includes  
salaries, bonuses, incentive programs, and  
a range of benefits designed to meet our  
employees  diverse needs while enhancing  
their wellbeing and that of their families. 
Valuing and rewarding employees drives  
higher engagement and better performance  
and helps us attract and retain top talent.  
Compensation and benefits are reviewed  
periodically for market competitiveness.  
HP sponsors a global wellness program  
designed to enhance physical, financial, and  
emotional wellbeing for all of our employees  
around the world. Other benefit programs  
vary by country to reflect local market  
practice and employee needs. Depending on  
location, these may include:  
  Retirement and savings plans 
  Healthcare benefits  
  Wellness programs  
  Insurance protections (e.g., life and  
  Time-off programs (vacation, holidays,  
  Discount programs  
  Flexible work arrangements  
  Stock purchase plan  
  Other benefits 
disability)  
parental leaves, etc.)  
In accordance with U.S. Securities and  
Exchange Commission (SEC) rules, we  
recently reported our CEO pay ratio  
Executive compensation  
The HR and Compensation Committee  
discharges the HP Board of Directors  
responsibilities related to the compensation  
of our executives and directors and provides  
general oversight of our compensation  
structure, including our equity compensation  
plans and benefits programs. See page 58 of  
the HP 2021 Proxy Statement for detail. 
for fiscal year 2020. Our CEO s annual  
total compensation for fiscal 2020 was  
 12,479,815. Our median employee s  
HP is committed to   pay equity  
Treating HP employees fairly and  
equitably is core to who we are.  
 It also benefits our business,   
by helping HP attract and retain  
brilliant people in a fiercely  
competitive market for talent. We  
believe people should be paid for  
what they do and how they do it,  
regardless of their gender, race,  
or other personal characteristics.  
Learn more about our approach  
and performance.  
annual total compensation was  88,448,  
resulting in a CEO pay ratio of 141:1. For  
more detail, see page 70 of the HP 2021  
Health and safety 
We strive to keep our employees safe and  
healthy so they can do their best work. Our  
environmental, health, and safety (EHS)  
leadership team uses our global injury  
and illness reporting system to assess  
trends regionally and worldwide as a part  
of quarterly reviews. We have internal  
targets to keep lost workday case rates  
below 0.5 and recordable incidence rates  
under 1.0 (see definitions of these rates).  
the COVID-19 pandemic, we created a wide  
range of guidance documents, requirements,  
and training around social distancing,  
cleaning stations, site protocols, and other  
topics. We required employees to report  
potential exposures or positive tests to their  
supervisor and each case was tracked using  
a new online system. Exposed employees  
were requested to quarantine following  
exposure, and processes were established  
Managers assess progress against those  
targets annually. 
Supervisors of employees injured at work  
are required to complete injury and illness  
investigations for all reportable incidents  
and work with EHS points of contact to  
assess serious or complex cases. 
To help keep our employees safe during  
Proxy Statement. 
for contact tracing, follow-up, and HP site  
cleansing. To support our employees who  
transitioned to working from home, we  
offered ergonomic assessments, training,  
and grants to spend on a new chair  
or monitor. 
In 2020, we achieved a global lost workday  
case rate of 0.06 and a recordable incidence  
rate of 0.10, 
rates (the most recent data available) of 0.07  
and 0.10, respectively, in the U.S. Computer  
and Peripheral Equipment Manufacturing  
industry (NAICS Code 33411).  
Our manufacturing facilities continue  
to represent our most significant health  
and safety risks, due to higher potential  
exposure to chemicals and machinery- 
related hazards. While injury rates continue  
to be low, managing and reducing risks  
at these plants remains a focus. We have  
implemented programs to address common  
risks such as ergonomic issues, slips,  
and falls. We also address the safety of  
employees when they are working beyond  
our facilities, such as customer service  
agents visiting customer sites, for whom  
we develop training and related testing on  
issues such as vehicle and back safety. 
See more information about our  
environmental, health, and safety  
management system. 
See Data.  
62  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
9 compared to 2019 average  
The physical health, financial wellbeing,   
and life balance of our employees is vital   
to HP s success. In 2020, we adapted   
and expanded our programs to serve the  
needs of our workforce during the  
unprecedented challenges presented by   
the COVID-19 pandemic.  
Through HP Spirit, we offered an array of  
programs, activities, and virtual gatherings,  
as well as enhanced benefits and resources  
to support wellbeing. This included sessions  
that focused on mental fitness, healthy  
sleep, and mindfulness. Beyond COVID-19- 
related and wellbeing webinars and forums,  
we offered family movie nights, a global  
dance party with a DJ, fitness and dance  
classes, virtual volunteering opportunities,  
and much more.  
Our Well Beyond wellbeing program  
continued to encourage healthy behaviors  
through regular communications, voluntary  
progress tracking, fun challenges, and  
incentives. Depending on location, U.S.  
employees and spouses domestic partners  
can each receive incentives of up to  550 a  
year for activities such as completing a  
wellness assessment or making a tobacco- 
free pledge. As of October 2020, 74.5% of  
eligible employees in the United States, and  
56.6% worldwide, had enrolled in the Well  
Beyond program. 
HP s wellbeing measures helped secure  the 17th spot in the Forbes World s Best  Employers list for 2020 a significant  rise compared with 2019. The list is based  on a survey of 160,000 full-time and  part-time workers from 58 countries.  
Physical health  
Financial wellness  
  From March 20, 2020, we have offered  
  As part of our Global Wellness Challenge  
  During the GWC, we recorded 4.75 billion  
  We offered a new webinar focused on  
  Nearly 1,200 employees in the United  
virtual office hours by webinar on  
COVID-19 information with HP s Global  
Medical Director and other doctors weekly  
or biweekly.  
(GWC) held in April and May, 59% of our  
employees around the world, including  
75% of our U.S. workforce, enrolled in the  
Virgin Pulse platform, through which we  
provide access to digital coaching and a  
wide range of health and wellbeing content. 
employee steps through our Well Beyond  
platform worldwide, equivalent to 7,220  
daily steps per participant.  
financial stability in a time of crisis. 
States attended our  ave Beyond live  
workshops, available for a month. The  
number of employees who increased  
Life balance 
Based on the success of our expanded  
programs, we plan to continue some of  
these initiatives in 2021 and beyond. 
  We continued to offer our digital sleep  
  We introduced additional measures such  
  Recognizing employees  caregiving  
  To help families learn and play at home,  
contributions to their 401(k) retirement  
plans rose by about 840% compared to  
the prior 30-day period. 
therapy tool and mindfulness initiatives. 
as our  Take Time for You  campaign.  
Launched in June, it offered counseling  
resources and events, shared employee  
stories, and spotlighted mental health  
resources. Building on the campaign, we  
have further incorporated mental health  
into our wellbeing program, including by  
highlighting World Suicide Prevention Day  
and World Mental Health Day. 
challenges, we offered listening sessions  
to discover what HP could do to help.  
We provided support to caregivers,  
including an app with useful resources  
and functionality, webinars on parenting  
resilience, a homework club, and online  
physical education classes for kids. 
we partnered with leading education  
brands and artists to create Print, Play  
and Learn, providing over 250 pieces of  
free printable content. 
Our facilities 
At our 168 sites in 59 countries around the  
world, we are taking action to reduce our  
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, energy  
and water withdrawal, and waste generation.  
While GHG emissions associated with HP s  
operations represent just 1% of our overall  
carbon footprint, it is the area where we  
Environmental,  health, and safety  management 
HP owns and leases facilities around the  
world. Our Environmental, Health, and  
Safety (EHS) Policy and EHS management  
system (which apply to all HP employees and  
contractors and all operational sites) help  
us to manage our environmental impact,  
improve worker safety, verify progress  
toward our goals and adherence to internal  
standards, and document compliance with  
all applicable laws and regulations. We  
63  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
have the greatest control and influence,  
and therefore the greatest ability to make  
immediate impact. By modeling sustainable  
operations, we also demonstrate our values  
in action, and highlight industry-leading  
practices as an example to employees,  
customers, suppliers, visitors, and others. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
During 2020, all nine HP manufacturing sites  
were audited through either on-site visits by  
HP EHS auditors or self-audits. Management  
reviews the findings of all audits, and any  
deficiencies are identified and action plans  
are developed. 
When feasible, we pursue environmental  
management and green building  
certifications at HP owned and leased  
facilities worldwide. As of the end of 2020,  
21 facilities (including all HP manufacturing  
sites) were certified to ISO 14001 (the  
most recent version), with 17 as part of our  
global ISO 14001 certificate. As of the end  
of 2020, seven facilities (including 29% of  
HP manufacturing sites) were certified to  
ISO 45001 OHSAS 18001 for occupational  
health and safety. 
As of October 31, 2020, 21 sites had achieved  
LEED or BREEAM certifications for building,  
two locations had achieved SITES certification,  
and one site had achieved TRUE certification.  
investigate all allegations that our facilities  
failed to comply with applicable laws and  
take corrective action when needed.  
Every year, we perform risk assessments  
at all of our chemical-intensive and  
manufacturing sites. Internal audits are  
conducted annually at complex locations. 1  
All new build-outs target the LEED v4 Gold  
Standard or a local equivalent such as  
BREEAM as the basis for design. In support of  
these objectives, HP has developed the HP  
Green and Smart Construction Playbook for  
project managers. This provides guidance on  
an integrated design process that covers key  
principles ranging from energy use, indoor   
air quality, water withdrawal, and waste  
recycling, to smart building technology and  
the user experience.  
HP also factors environmental considerations  
into decisions to lease new sites. Through  
our HP Energy and Sustainability Survey,  
we ask prospective landlords to provide  
information on features and amenities such  
  SITES for landscaping   LEED BREEAM for building    TRUE zero waste 
HP locations with green   building certifications 
as LEED certification, renewable energy,  
electric vehicle charging stations, and  
water efficiency. 
To drive improvement in health and safety,  
our EHS management system aligns with  
the American National Standards Institute  
ANSI Z10 standard and the International  
Organization for Standardization (ISO)  
14001 standard. We hire and train safety  
professionals to implement procedures  
for reviewing new and ongoing workplace  
health and safety hazards, and incorporate  
newly identified hazards periodically into our  
EHS management system. 
Supervisors are required to ensure that  
all HP work-related health and safety  
incidents are investigated and that issues  
are addressed. When an injury occurs, we  
identify the root cause and implement  
solutions to address the core issues.  
Employees receive guidance to identify  
and report hazards, and channels exist for  
employees to report hazards outside of their  
immediate control, for subsequent action  
by facility teams. We ensure our employees  
feel empowered to remove themselves from  
situations they believe are unsafe. 
To continually develop our global EHS  
management system, we engage with and  
seek input from safety professionals,  
management teams, and partners across HP.  
All locations must proactively implement  
company-wide health and safety standards.  
These specify that any new equipment and  
chemicals, along with any changes to the  
work environment, are reviewed for safety  
and environmental issues, and any issues  
addressed accordingly. 
All HP facilities have assigned technical EHS  
personnel, and our global EHS team provides  
guidance and oversight. Joint management- 
worker health and safety committees exist in  
some locations, and we regularly discuss  
relevant policies, processes, and regulatory  
compliance with employees.  
64  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
About our   operational data 
All environmental data reported in  
this section refers to HP operations  
through October 31, 2020. At that  
time, we owned or leased 168 sites  
in 59 countries. HP directly tracked  
data for 2020 from invoices and  
other documents representing  
95% of total electricity use, 89%  
of total natural gas use, 92% of  
total water withdrawal, 81% of  
nonhazardous waste, and 100%   
of total hazardous waste.  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
In 2020, more than 2,200 employees  
and agency contractors took part in 203  
instructor-led courses and over 22,200  
enrolled in web-based EHS training. Our  
training includes information about general  
workplace issues, as well as targeted  
information for specific roles.  
Promoting a culture  of environmental  responsibility 
Our employees worldwide make a vital  
contribution to improving our environmental  
performance and to supporting corporate  
efforts to tackle global issues. Employee  
engagement initiatives enable HP s global  
workforce to directly contribute to progress  
on our Sustainable Impact goals and vision.  
For example:  
  Northwest Earth Institute EcoChallenge:  
  Earth Day: More than 500 employees  
More than 2,000 HP employees from 51  
sites took part in this three-week personal  
sustainability challenge. Out of nearly 470  
competing teams worldwide (from HP and  
other organizations), five HP sites earned  
the top spots.  
participated in zero waste-focused movie  
screenings and circular economy discussion  
groups, which were held virtually due to  
COVID-19. Our  ReduceReuseReinvent  
campaign generated over 11,000 employee  
pledges and interactions.  
emissions during 2020. This 56% decrease  
Greenhouse gas  emissions 2 
Most of our GHG emissions from operations  
are related to the energy used to power our  
facilities. To save money, drive progress  
toward our goals, and reduce our climate  
impacts, we: 
Our global operations produced 171,000  
tonnes of Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e  
compared to 2015 makes progress toward  
our science-based goal of a 60% reduction  
  Prior to COVID-19, we worked with our  
  Aggressively reduce energy   
  Increase on-site generation of  
  Procure off-site renewable power,  
on-site cafeteria and catering vendors to  
offer more reusable options for supplies  
with the goal of reducing waste from  
single-use plastics across the company.  
For example, we eliminated single-use  
plastic beverage containers and plastic  
straws and utensils at our Boise, Houston,  
and Palo Alto campuses.  
consumption through optimization   
and efficiency projects. 
renewable power. 
including renewable energy credits (RECs),  
utility supplier green power options, and  
power purchase agreements (PPAs). 
by 2025. Moving forward, this will be  
replaced by a new goal, once validated by  
the Science Based Targets initiative, which  
supports our broader goal to achieve carbon  
neutral HP operations by 2025.  
GHG emissions intensity equaled 3.0 tonnes  
of CO2e per   million of net revenue in 2020,  
a 19% reduction from 2019. While we did not  
implement significant capital energy  
efficiency projects in 2020 due to COVID-19,  
we achieved substantial GHG emissions  
reductions by adjusting temperature and  
lighting settings for unoccupancy at sites  
closed due to the pandemic. We also  
increased purchases of renewable energy  
attributes during the year, which further  
decreased our net GHG emissions. 
  Moving forward, this will be replaced by a new goal, once  validated by the Science Based Targets initiative, which  supports our broader goal to achieve carbon neutral   HP operations by 2025. 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS   
REDUCTION GOAL 
Reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions   
from global operations by 60% by 2025,  
compared to 2015  
PROGRESS IN 2020  
HP s global operations produced 171,000 tonnes  
of Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions 
less than our 2015 baseline 
Climate response. 
  Historical emissions-intensity values were calculated using  HP s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting  and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. 
See our full carbon footprint for 2016 2020,  
HP carbon accounting manual, and HP CDP  
Energy efficiency 
Energy use is a significant operating expense  
for HP and the main driver of our climate  
impact from operations. Our operations  
consumed 604,901 MWh of energy in 2020,  
9% less than in 2019. Global electricity use  
decreased by 9% compared to 2019. Energy  
intensity equaled 10.7 MWh per   million of  
net revenue in 2020, 5% less than in 2019. 
65  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
 Americas    Europe, Middle East, and Africa    Asia Pacific and Japan     GHG emissions intensity (tonnes CO2e   million  of net revenue)  
Scope 1 and Scope 2  GHG emissions from operations 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
tonnes CO2e 
tonnes CO2e   million of net revenue  
For most of 2020, our non-critical buildings  
were closed due to COVID-19, and access  
restrictions prevented us from implementing  
many energy conservation projects. Our  
teams ensured these buildings were set for  
unoccupancy, using emergency lighting and  
setting broader temperature ranges than  
when in normal use. We also confirmed that  
sites will be compliant with HP temperature  
set points once they are again occupied. 
Although capital projects were curtailed in  
2020 due to the pandemic, our focus on  
operational and efficiency upgrades when  
replacing equipment remains the same. In  
2021, we are implementing energy-saving  
opportunities such as retro commissioning  
projects, chiller plant optimizations, smart  
building retrofits, use of digital lighting  
controls, and heating, ventilation, and air  
conditioning (HVAC) system replacements. 
Training and engagement  on sustainable operations 
Sites use our HP EcoChampions  
Playbook to help implement strong  
practices. The Playbook includes  
training modules with step-by- 
step guidelines to strengthen  
performance in areas such as  
energy efficiency, water efficiency  
(added in 2020), and waste  
reduction (also added in 2020). 
    Includes purchased electricity and electricity generated  
     Historical energy-intensity values were calculated  
In 2020, our site in Costa Rica received the  
Carbon Neutral Plus certification from the  
national government. After reducing GHG  
emissions by 77% through energy efficiency,  
the site offset the remaining 23% of GHG  
emissions plus an additional 20% of the  
original amount. 
Learn more about how we are reducing GHG  
emissions across our value chain in Supply  
chain responsibility: Environmental impact  
    District cooling and heating (purchased) is less than   1% of total so is not visible on the graph. Data are  included in the Data section. 
and Products and solutions. 
 Stationary combustion (natural gas and diesel)   Electricity      Energy intensity (MWh   million of net revenue)    
using HP s annual revenue as characterized in financial  reporting and direct and indirect energy use. 
Energy use from operations  
2016 2018 2017 
MWh   million of net revenue    
Renewable energy 
By 2025, we aim to use 100% renewable  
electricity to power our global operations.   
In 2020, we procured and generated  
243,661 MWh of renewable electricity  
globally (95.9% wind, 3.6% solar, and 0.5%  
hydro). Renewables accounted for 51% of  
our global electricity consumption, compared  
to 43% in 2019. Sources of renewable  
electricity in 2020 included RECs and IRECs  
(88.3%), direct purchases (10.1%), and  
renewable energy generated on-site and  
on-site PPAs (1.6%). Through these  
purchases, we once again achieved our  
objective to use 100% renewable electricity  
in the United States and helped to advance  
the global market for renewables.  
  Updated from our prior goal to use 60% renewable  electricity in our operations by 2025 and achieve 100%   by 2035. 
RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY GOAL 
Use 100% renewable electricity in our   
operations by 2025  
PROGRESS IN 2020 
HP s global operations procured and   
generated 243,661 MWh of renewable   
electricity and attributes, equivalent to 51% 
of our global electricity consumption 
Building on previous renewable energy  
initiatives, including our solar-covered roof  
at our Palo Alto headquarters, we signed two  
on-site solar PPAs in 2020. The first, at our  
manufacturing site in Corvallis, Oregon, will  
provide approximately 495 MWh per year.  
The second, at our manufacturing site in  
Penang, Malaysia, will provide approximately  
4,000 MWh per year, equivalent to 9% of the  
site s annual electricity use. 
To help drive further action across our  
industry and the private sector, we are part  
of several global and national coalitions: 
on the Green Power Partnership Top 30  Tech   Telecom list (as of April 2021) 
66  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
  In early 2019, we were among the  
  In 2018, we became one of the largest  
  In 2016, we joined RE100 led by The 
  In 2015, we signed the Corporate  
Thermal Energy Buyers  Statement.  
first companies to sign the Renewable  
green power users among technology  
and telecommunications partners within 
the U.S. EPA s Green Power Partnership  
Climate Group.  
Renewable Energy Buyers  Principles.  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
Business travel, commuting,  and auto fleet 
In 2020, employee business travel generated  
20,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions, down 71%  
from 2019. Commuting generated 100,000  
tonnes of CO2e emissions, 50% less than the  
prior year. Our company fleet accounted for  
24,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions, down 27%  
compared to 2019 and also 27% less than in  
2015. Performance in all of these areas was  
impacted by travel restrictions related to  
To decrease emissions, we provide  
employees low-impact travel choices  
through collaboration with travel providers,  
planning tools, and transportation  
of CO2e emissions 27% 
by 2025, compared to 2015 
PROGRESS IN 2020 
HP s auto fleet produced 24,000 tonnes   
HP FLEET GHG EMISSIONS   
REDUCTION GOAL 
Reduce GHG emissions from HP owned   
or leased auto fleet vehicles by 25%   
less than our 2015 baseline 
HP ELECTRIC VEHICLE FLEET GOAL 
Achieve a 100% electric company   
vehicle fleet by 2030 
alternatives such as the Zipcar vehicle  
In 2020, we offered EV infrastructure at  
34% of 83 target sites, including Barcelona,  
Spain  Geneva, Switzerland  Palo Alto,  
California  and Houston, Texas. This included  
11 new EV charging stations installed during  
the year. Wherever feasible, we require  
new building constructions and leases to  
include EV infrastructure. Although we had  
planned to launch EV fleet pilots at five  
European locations in Belgium, France, the  
Netherlands, and Spain in early 2020, we  
delayed that initiative due to COVID-19.  
We started our first EV fleet pilot in the  
Netherlands in October 2020, and another  
one in Belgium in January 2021. We plan  
to launch additional EV pilots during 2021,  
including in the United States and Canada.  
We also introduced a hybrid as our default  
fleet vehicle in the United States, which will  
decrease related GHG emissions significantly.  
share program at our headquarters in  
Palo Alto. Car sharing decreases the need  
for employees to own a vehicle. HP is  
one of 10 founding members of EV100, a  
Climate Group initiative launched in 2017 to  
accelerate adoption of electric vehicles (EVs)  
worldwide. We have committed to install EV  
infrastructure at all feasible sites worldwide  
Water withdrawal associated with our  
operations makes up 2% of our total water  
footprint. This is roughly evenly split  
between direct withdrawal as described in  
this section (mainly for use in buildings,  
cooling, landscaping, and production of  
high-purity water for manufacturing) and  
indirect withdrawal associated with  
generation of the electricity we use in  
our facilities. 
In 2020, we consumed 2,597,000 cubic  
meters of water overall, an 11% decrease  
compared to 2019. This was due primarily  
to reduced occupancy at sites globally as  
a result of COVID-19, as well as decreased  
production volumes at some locations.  
WATER WITHDRAWAL GOAL 
Reduce potable water withdrawal in   
global operations by 35% by 2025,   
compared to 2015, focusing on high-risk sites 
PROGRESS IN 2020 
HP withdrew 2,327,000 cubic meters   
of potable water across global operations  
less than in 2015, and focused reduction   
efforts on high-risk sites (see water-saving  
projects completed during 2020) 
Water withdrawal intensity per   million of  
net revenue decreased by 8% between 2019  
and 2020.  
To decrease and recycle water used at  
our facilities, we employ capital practices,  
sustainable landscaping, infrastructure  
upgrades, leak monitoring and detection,  
and greywater reuse. At some locations,  
we also reduce our dependency on potable  
water by utilizing alternative sources,  
including rain water and reclaimed water. 
We use the World Resources Institute (WRI)  
Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas tool to assess  
the risk of sites and prioritize reductions in  
water-stressed locations. Using this tool, we  
assessed 182 HP facilities as part of our risk  
modeling for 2020. Fifty-one of the facilities  
assessed (28% of the total) fall within the  
high-risk category for water stress. Those  
locations consumed 295,000 cubic meters  
of water during 2020, 11% of our global total  
and down 1% from the prior year. 
HP reused 269,000 cubic meters of water 
plumbing fixtures, and as process water.  
This was equivalent to 10% of total water  
withdrawal. The company also captured and  
used 1,000 cubic meters of rain water for  
cooling towers during the year.  
67  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
globally during 2020 for landscaping, indoor  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
Water-saving projects completed during  
2020 included:  
See detailed data for 2016 2020, the   
HP water accounting manual, and our   
CDP Water Security submission.  
  Barcelona, Spain: Our sustainable  
  Europe, Middle East, and Africa region:  
  Corvallis, Oregon: We expanded our  
landscaping project will save 6,700 cubic  
meters of irrigation water on a yearly  
basis. This builds on our programs in  
Boise, Idaho (the first USGBC Sustainable  
SITES certified campus globally, in  
2017), and Corvallis, Oregon (the second  
corporate campus worldwide to achieve  
USGBC Sustainable SITES Initiative v2, in  
2019). We also installed a new rain water  
capture system for irrigation usage as  
part of our LEED v4 Gold project. This  
will save 1,000 cubic meters of water  
annually, which we plan to use for  
irrigation and bathrooms. 
We expanded our smart monitoring and  
leak detection program to HP facilities in  
Barcelona, Amsterdam, and Sofia. 
weather tracking irrigation scheduling  
to our Corvallis site. The WeatherTrak  
system optimizes irrigation based on  
weather data, adjusting schedules to  
minimize water use by supplementing  
rainfall. At Corvallis, this project will save  
18,000 cubic meters of water annually.  
    HP reports all water withdrawal as consumed. 
   Historical withdrawal-intensity values were calculated  
Wastewater  
Wastewater is not a significant environmental  
risk at HP s operations. Our imaging and  
printing product manufacturing facilities  
generate process effluents that are pre- 
treated, strictly monitored, and discharged  
under government-issued permits to  
municipal wastewater plants for further  
treatment. We implement procedures  
4,000,000 80 
 Americas    Europe, Middle East, and Africa    Asia Pacific and Japan     Water withdrawal intensity  (cubic meters   million of net revenue)   
using HP s annual revenue as characterized in financial  reporting and water withdrawal. 
2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 
Water withdrawal  
cubic meters  
municipal water 
cubic meters   million of net revenue 
   Direct use of surface water is insignificant and not  
    NEWater: Ultra-purified wastewater used in  
     This category includes groundwater. 
to prevent unauthorized discharges of  
chemicals to our facility wastewater  
systems, and ensure that these sites do not  
discharge wastewater directly to surface  
water or to groundwater. 
88.8% Municipal water 
included in data reported. Rain water is about 0.03% of  total so is not visible on the graph.  
manufacturing operations in Singapore.  
10.4%      Wastewater from      another organization    
Water withdrawal  by source, 2020  
percentage of total 
0.8% Well water    
400 tonnes of used electronic equipment  
recovered from HP operations. This data   
is not comparable to the data reported for  
Although our facilities do not generate large  
amounts of waste, we employ a global policy  
of  reduce, reuse, and recycle  that supports  
our company-wide shift toward a circular  
economy. HP generated 14,200 tonnes of  
nonhazardous waste in 2020, 4 as well as   
2017 and 2018, since it is based on an  
updated methodology. 
Our goal is to achieve zero waste in HP  
operations by 2025. In 2020, we achieved  
an 85.2% landfill diversion rate globally,  
and only use disposal as a last resort. The  
COVID-19 pandemic adversely impacted  
waste management processes, which  
68  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
ZERO WASTE GOAL 
Reach zero waste in HP operations by 2025 5 
PROGRESS IN 2020 
In 2020, we achieved an 85.2% 
landfill diversion rate globally 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
and recycling. 
lowered our global diversion rate from  
91.8% in 2019. We reuse electronic  
equipment when possible, or recycle it  
responsibly through the same programs we  
offer customers. See Product repair, reuse,  
In 2017, our Palo Alto headquarters became  
the first technology campus in the state and  
the second globally to achieve Gold TRUE  
certification, a whole systems approach that  
aims to change how materials flow through  
society. We plan to pursue similar certifications  
at additional campuses worldwide. 
In 2019 and 2020, we implemented  
centralized trash collection, which has  
removed deskside bins at 44 campuses  
worldwide. We have also added recycling  
and composting at more locations. This  
led to a 15 30% reduction in recycling  
contamination and an increase in employee  
awareness about sorting properly. We also  
engaged employees in campaigns to reduce  
single-use plastics and paper cups.  
The main hazardous waste we generate is  
liquid from ink manufacturing facilities.  
These manufacturing sites prioritize waste  
management options with low  
environmental impacts and only use  
disposal as a last resort. Although ink  
  HP sites report nonhazardous waste volumes and  disposition based on information provided by our waste  disposal vendors. For sites unable to directly track  nonhazardous waste, we estimate volumes and disposition  using intensity factors based on similar operations. 
manufacturing is a source of hazardous  
waste, Original HP Ink Cartridges used by  
customers and in our offices can be recycled  
and are considered nonhazardous in many of  
our major markets. We generated 6,060  
tonnes of hazardous waste in 2020.  
See detailed waste data for 2016 2020.  
15% Landfill  
recovered from HP operations 
Composition of nonhazardous waste  and used electronic equipment  recovered from HP operations, 2020   
9% Waste- to-energy 
3% Used electronic equipment 
15% Other  5% Metals  
percentage of total  
13% Packaging materials 
18% Pallets 
See HP s latest disclosure for the U.S.  
Environmental Protection Agency Toxics  
Release Inventory.  
HP is conducting environmental  
investigations and or remediation at several  
current or former operating sites. Some  
historic manufacturing activities of HP and  
predecessor companies used chemicals  
now known to have contaminated soil  
and groundwater. We are also involved  
in the cleanup of sites affected by the  
improper disposal and recycling of HP s  
wastes by third parties. HP is committed  
to addressing these chemical releases and  
proactively works to implement a variety of  
remediation activities in cooperation with  
regulatory agencies. 
Community giving and volunteerism 
We aim to connect communities to greater  
economic and social opportunity. We do  
this by leveraging our technology, scope,  
and scale, together with strategic local  
and international partnerships. We create  
positive local impact in the communities  
where we live, work, and do business,  
through corporate contributions, the work  
of the HP Foundation, 
and volunteerism. See HP s Global Charitable  
Contributions Policy.  
In 2020, providing relief and support for  
those affected by COVID-19 was a primary  
focus. HP donated  13.86 million in  
products during the year (see box on next  
page), and the HP Foundation announced  
its contribution of  3 million in grants to  
support communities impacted by COVID-19:  
 1 million to provide critical medical  
supplies and  2 million for broader relief,  
working with global and local partners to  
prioritize actions with the greatest impact.  
The HP Foundation also expanded the HP  
LIFE (Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs)  
program to reach students and learners  
around the world who had their educations  
interrupted by school closures and a lack of  
access to technology (see right). 
See also HP s response to COVID-19 and  
Global education programs. 
69  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
1 and employee giving  
Technology-enabled  education and  skills-building 
  SDG 3, Good health and well-being, was a significant focus in 2020 as well, due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  
Corporate giving 
 17.57 million  in 2020 (cash  contributions and  products) 
HOW WE SUPPORT OUR COMMUNITIES 
HP Foundation  giving 
 9.88 million in  2020, including   3.0 million in  grants to support  communities  impacted by  COVID-19 
Environmental  stewardship, resilience,  and disaster recovery 
FOCUS AREAS  
Employee giving 
 2.65 million   in 2020 
HP Foundation  matched two-for- one all employee  donations made  between March 1  and October 31 
Inclusion and  empowerment for  underrepresented and  marginalized people 
Employee   volunteerism 
127,000 hours  contributed by   6,650 employees   in 2020 
HP Foundation  programs  
HP LIFE: Learning and  employment opportunities  for aspiring entrepreneurs  
To bridge the  digital divide  and build skills  
for the future, the HP Foundation provides  
core business and IT skills training free of  
charge for start-ups, students, and small  
businesses through HP LIFE. The program  
offers global access to 32 free courses in  
seven languages, available online, offline,  
and in person, when it s safe to do so. 
This has been a pivotal year for HP LIFE: 
  In 2020, 155,000 new users enrolled, up  
more than 210% from the prior year. The  
COMMUNITY GIVING GOAL 
Contribute  100 million in HP Foundation  
and employee community giving 
(cumulative since the beginning of 2016) 
PROGRESS THROUGH 2020 
Reached  55.12 million 
in HP Foundation and employee   
community giving 
2 by 2025  
70  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
  We increased outreach to bring HP LIFE  
  In October 2020, we enhanced the HP LIFE  
program enrolled nearly 950,000 new HP  
LIFE users from 2012 through 2020. 
free courses to learners everywhere,  
both entrepreneurs and students. This  
included college students who had their  
education interrupted by the pandemic   
we partnered with the City University of  
New York to make HP LIFE available to its  
500,000 students across 25 campuses. 
online platform with a new user interface.  
This creates a more effective learning  
experience with improved responsiveness,  
a cleaner design, and powerful new  
features. We also extended the program s  
reach through business initiatives such as  
HP Online Teaching Assistant.  
Product donations to help bridge the education divide and support COVID-19 response 
In 2020, HP donated  13.86 million in laptops, printers, displays, and paper to support education, small and midsize businesses, and  
healthcare entities in underprivileged and underserved communities around the world. This included  3 million in laptops donated to  
school districts, healthcare organizations, and homeless shelters across the United States. 
HP also collaborated with the Global Business Coalition for Education and Comp-U-Dopt to provide equipment to students  
impacted by school closures. Through August 2020, we donated  800,000 in technology and funding, which helped Comp-U-Dopt  
improve technology access and education in Chicago, Dallas, and Houston. We distributed HP Chromebooks and learning packets  
to Safe Horizon s shelters, which support children living in eight domestic violence shelters across all five New York City boroughs.  
Additionally, HP worked with the Oakland Unified School District to provide equipment, supplies, and HP Turn to Learn content to  
support remote teaching and learning. 
To help accelerate COVID-19 drug and vaccine research, we deployed D300e BioPrinters in the United States and Europe. We also  
provided  500,000 in commercial printers to healthcare organizations across the United States assisting with the pandemic response. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
We partner with world-class organizations  
LIFE online and  off platform  see right for  
further detail. 
See HP LIFE success stories.  
to expand the impact of HP LIFE. In 2020,   
we formed a new partnership with the Junior  
Achievement organization to develop HP  
HP LIFE GOAL 
Enroll 1 million HP LIFE users   
between 2016 and 2025  
PROGRESS THROUGH 2020 
Enrolled 370,000 
since 2016 
Supporting   learners globally 
Expanding access to   learning in Mexico  
In 2019, we launched three new HP LIFE  
centers in Mexico, in collaboration with the  
UN Women s Second Chance Education  
program and the BHP Foundation. The  
centers provide digital classrooms with  
access to free online entrepreneurial learning  
courses for women. Although impacted by  
COVID-19, our partnership with UN Women  
aims to empower up to 6,000 women from  
launch through 2021. Watch video. 
HP is committed to enabling better  learning outcomes for 100 million  
people by 2025, since the beginning  of 2015, through application of our  technology, training, R D, and financial  contributions. We invest in programs and  provide technology solutions that meet  learners where they are and take them  where they want to go. See how our  products and partnerships are enabling  better learning outcomes. 
Bringing HP LIFE to Romania,  Hungary, and Bulgaria 
In Romania, more than 66,000 students  
enrolled in HP LIFE in 2020, which was  
implemented at 1,200 high schools and 200  
universities during the year in partnership  
with Junior Achievement. Students enrolled  
in Junior Achievement entrepreneurship  
competitions have also had access to online  
mentoring sessions with HP volunteers,  
receiving feedback and support on business  
plans and piloting.  
During 2020, Junior Achievement in Hungary  
and Bulgaria started translating HP LIFE  
courses to deliver in those countries. HP LIFE  
and Junior Achievement plan to expand this  
initiative to additional locations in 2021. 
BeChangeMaker: Empowering  social entrepreneurs globally  
In partnership with WorldSkills International,  
HP LIFE hosts an annual BeChangeMaker  
business pitch competition. Teams use HP  
LIFE courses and webinars to generate social  
venture ideas related to the UN Sustainable  
Development Goals, create a viable  
business model, and pitch their concept to  
HP employees who serve as mentors and  
judges. In 2020, a record 790 teams of social  
entrepreneurs applied, up from 270 teams  
in 2019. The winning team pitched an idea  
to better manage diabetes. During the year,  
we also launched a new regional program,  
BeChangeMaker Africa, won by a team  
with an innovative idea to connect skilled  
refugees with jobs. 
Imagine Grants  
Through the HP Foundation Imagine Grants,  
HP leaders and country managers have  
the discretion to allocate a cash grant to  
approved organizations working to bring  
technology-related learning experiences  
to underserved and underrepresented  
communities. In 2020, we fulfilled  1.3 million  
in Imagine Grants worldwide. 
Disaster recovery  and resilience  
HP, our employees, and the HP Foundation  
together provide financial support for  
communities affected by natural disasters  
71  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
and emergencies. In 2020, we supported  
response efforts for the California wildfires,  
the Australian wildfires, the earthquake in  
Puerto Rico, flooding in Indonesia, the Taal  
Volcano eruption in the Philippines, the  
explosion in Lebanon, and Hurricane Laura in  
the United States. We worked with strategic  
partners, including the American Red Cross,  
Feeding America, UNICEF, Save the Children,  
and the Information Technology Disaster  
Employee  volunteerism  
HP taps into the talents, passions, and  
entrepreneurial spirit of employees to  
make a difference in our communities. In  
2020, 6,650 employees contributed about  
127,000 hours to local volunteer efforts in  
53 countries, with a value of  7.42 million. 3  
Resource Center, to provide relief to speed  
recovery and reconnect vital networks. 
HP employees are granted four hours paid  
volunteering hours by 2025 (cumulative   
EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING GOAL 
Contribute 1.5 million employee   
since the beginning of 2016) 
PROGRESS THROUGH 2020 
Reached 556,000 
employee volunteering hours 
36 countries participated in HP s annual   
40 Days of Doing Good campaign.  
Time Off Community Support Grant allows  
employees to apply for a week of paid  
volunteer time to support more intensive  
engagements and travel service projects. 
40 Days of Doing Good  
In 2020, more than 1,790 employees in   
Employees volunteered 10,400 hours  
supporting 112 projects.  
The HP Foundation gave a  500,000  grant to the Equal Justice Initiative (EJI),  which works to challenge racial and  economic injustice. The grant will  support EJI s criminal justice initiatives  related to mental health, children  sentenced as adults, and wrongful  convictions, and enable the organization  to expand and accelerate its efforts  through litigation campaigns. 
The HP Foundation complemented these  
efforts with grants totaling  445,000  
to support the work of education and  
technology-related learning charities  
nominated by our employees.  
volunteer time per month. In addition, HP s  
We also held a special cash match for  
employee donations to employee-selected  
charities that advocate for racial justice.  
Employee donations and the HP Foundation  
match totaled  177,000. 
See Data for detailed figures. 
Volunteering spotlights  
Even when balancing many aspects of life  
during the pandemic, employees continued to  
support the 40 Days of Doing Good campaign  
with a broad range of projects. For example: 
Beginning in the early days of the  COVID-19 pandemic, we marshaled our  resources to make 3D-printed items  that would help prevent the spread of  infection. Our employee volunteers    
time was donated as well as the  materials needed to make hands-free  door openers and other devices that   we gave to hospitals. 
  In Japan, 74 HP employees volunteered  
  In India, HP employee Sumit Tiwary  
more than 400 hours over three months  
to help create audio books for children  
with limited vision, in partnership with  
Disability Impact Network. 
developed an app that helps volunteers  
coordinate efforts to support self-isolating  
citizens in Bangalore. As of February 2021,  
the volunteers had assisted about 42,000  
people throughout the city. 
Our employees  
   Employee data refers to regular full-time and part-time employees. Data is as of October 31 of the year reported.   Employees self-identify gender and race.  
   Includes all management categories (supervisors, managers, directors, and executives).  
72  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Women managers   [% of total] All minorities 27.2% 28.9% 
Global new hires, by gender [% of total] Hispanic Latino 8.7% 9.3% 
Women employees [% of total] U.S. employees, by ethnicity [% of total] 
Global new hires in technical roles, by gender [% of total] Two or more races 1.9% 2.1% 
Women 32.3% 27.6% Not disclosed available 8.1%  8.0% 
Women 40.2% 35.8% Asian 12.1% 12.9% 
Men 57.1% 63.3% Native American 0.5% 0.5% 
Not disclosed available 2.7%  0.9% Hawaiian Pacific Islander 0.2% 0.1% 
Worldwide 36.6% 36.9% White 64.7% 63.1% 
Worldwide 28.7% 29.7% Black African American 3.8% 4.0% 
Men 65.6% 71.7% U.S. new hires, by ethnicity [% of total] 
Not disclosed available 2.1% 0.6% White 56.1% 58.7% 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
2019 2020 2019 2020 
Not disclosed available 3.8%  3.7% 
All minorities 40.1% 37.6% 
Hawaiian Pacific Islander 0.3% 0.0% 
Two or more races 4.3% 3.8% 
Black African American 4.8% 5.4% 
Hispanic Latino 12.7% 7.7% 
Asian 17.0% 20.0% 
Native American 0.9% 0.8% 
   Based on business unit, this includes up to four levels from the CEO. 
    This refers to people managers below a director level. 
  This table does not include 2,770 employees of certain majority-owned, consolidated subsidiaries, for which data   were not available. 
Total 16.0% 65.8% 18.2% 
By function 
Total 16.0% 65.8% 18.2% 
Employees (regular full time and part time)   by region and gender, 2020  Men Women Undeclared  Unknown Total 
World workforce (regular full time and part time) by age group, 2020 30 and under 31 50 51 and over 
Asia Pacific and Japan 13,415  8,134  22  21,571  
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 7,276  4,546  128  11,950  
Total 31,726  18,618  171  50,515  
By job level 
Americas 11,035  5,938  21  16,994  
Services 16.5% 62.0% 21.5% 
Supply chain and operations 22.1% 63.4% 14.5% 
Other 15.2% 68.7% 16.1% 
Sales operations 23.9% 67.1% 9.0% 
Sales 7.9% 69.0% 23.1% 
Other 33.7% 52.5% 13.8% 
Engineering 15.7% 65.1% 19.3% 
Professionals 13.4% 69.3% 17.3% 
Directors 0.2% 57.2% 42.6% 
Executives  0.0% 46.7% 53.3% 
Managers   0.7% 70.6% 28.7% 
   Based on business unit, this includes up to four levels from the CEO. 
    This refers to people managers below a director level. 
73  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
World workforce (regular full time and part time) by gender, 2020 Men Women 
By job level 
Total 63.0% 37.0%  
By function 
Total 63.0% 37.0% 
Voluntary turnover rate 2020 
Overall 5.1% 
Executives  70.1% 29.9% 
Directors 67.7% 32.3% 
Managers   71.0% 29.0%  
Professionals 63.8% 36.2% 
Other 56.3% 43.7% 
Engineering 76.3% 23.7% 
Sales 71.5% 28.5% 
Sales operations 43.0% 57.0% 
Services 69.7% 30.3% 
Supply chain and operations 51.5% 48.5% 
Other 48.2% 51.8% 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
   This table does not include 2,770 employees of certain majority-owned, consolidated subsidiaries, for which data was not available. 
    Based on business unit, this includes up to four levels from the CEO.  
     This refers to people managers below a director level. 
Employees by employment type  (regular full time and part time)  and gender, 2020  
Total 18,618  36.9% 31,726  62.8% 171  0.3% 50,515  
Executives   1  50.0% 1  50.0% 0.0% 2  
Directors 1  25.0% 3  75.0 0.0% 4  
Managers    7  77.8% 2  22.2% 0.0% 9  
Professionals 297  83.7% 58  16.3% 0.0% 355  
Other 25  96.2% 1  3.8% 0.0% 26  
Subtotal 331  83.6% 65  16.4% 0.0% 396  
Executives   85  29.6% 201  70.0% 1  0.3% 287  
Directors 295  32.3% 616  67.5% 2  0.2% 913  
Managers    1,273  29.0% 3,116  70.9% 5  0.1% 4,394  
Professionals 12,350  35.6% 22,183  64.0% 138  0.4% 34,671  
Other 4,284  43.5% 5,545  56.3% 25  0.3% 9,854  
Subtotal 18,287  36.5% 31,661  63.2% 171  0.3% 50,119  
Women % Men % Undeclared % Total 
74  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Health and safety 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
Lost workday case rate  
Leading causes of lost workdays [% of total] 
Recordable incidence rate   
Leading causes of recordable incidents   (with and without lost time) [% of total]  
Lost time injury severity rate    
Global 0.16 0.08 0.09 0.08 0.06 
Americas 0.12 0.11 0.16 0.15 0.09 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.36 0.13 0.12 0.06 0.11 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0.06 0.03 0.02 0.04 0.00 
Slips, trips, and falls 34% 32% 24% 16% 9% 
Automobile accidents 26% 10% 20% 16% 25% 
Struck by against cut by 22% 22% 25% 20% 18% 
Ergonomics materials handling 11% 21% 14% 22% 20% 
Overexertion not materials handling 3% 11% 2% 0% 18% 
Other 4% 4% 15% 24% 10% 
Global 0.22 0.17 0.23 0.21 0.10 
Americas 0.23 0.30 0.33 0.33 0.19 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.43 0.18 0.52 0.34 0.14 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0.07 0.06 0.03 0.04 0.01 
Struck by against cut by 35% 33% 26% 30%  22% 
Slips, trips, and falls 27% 33% 27% 19% 16% 
Automobile accidents 13% 7% 13% 13% 22% 
Ergonomics materials handling 11% 12% 17% 21% 11% 
Ergonomics office environment 6% 3% 2% 4% 4% 
Other 8% 12% 15% 13% 25% 
Global 2.88 3.08 1.91 2.00 2.10 
Americas 3.42 6.04 4.86 5.15 5.08 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 4.21 2.00 0.98 0.42 1.55 
Asia Pacific and Japan 1.52 1.10 0.50 0.25 0.12 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
    Lost workday case rate is the number of work-related injuries that result in time away from work per 100 employees and  contractors that HP manages working a full year. Rates are calculated globally using Occupational Safety and Health  Administration (OSHA) definitions for recordability and OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are based on employees  working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average in 2019 for the Computer and Peripheral Equipment  Manufacturing industry (NAICS  33411) was 0.07. Our data for 2016 are fiscal year. Data for 2017 2020 are calendar year. 
    Recordable incidence rate is the number of all work-related injury cases requiring more than first aid per 100 employees and  
     Lost time injury severity rate is the number of days lost due to injury per 100 employees and contractors that HP manages.  
contractors that HP manages. Rates are calculated globally using OSHA definitions for recordability and OSHA calculation  methodologies. The figures are based on employees working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average  in 2019 for the Computer and Peripheral Equipment Manufacturing industry (NAICS  33411) was 0.10. Our data for 2016 are  fiscal year. Data for 2017 2020 are calendar year. 
Rates are calculated globally using OSHA definitions for recordability and OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are  based on employees working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. Data for 2016 are fiscal year. Data for 2017 2020  are calendar year. 
Our facilities (also see Carbon footprint)  
75  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Indirect energy use (corresponds to Scope 2  emissions) [MWh] 584,000 641,983 594,823 529,524    483,990  
Energy intensity    [MWh   million of net revenue] 15.3 15.5 13 11.3    10.7  
Direct energy use in operations (corresponds   to Scope 1 emissions)     [MWh] 155,682 165,138 164,075 133,851 120,911 
Energy use [MWh] 739,682 807,122 758,898 663,374    604,901  
Water withdrawal, by region [cubic meters] 3,535,000 3,243,000 3,406,000 2,930,000 2,597,000 
Voluntary purchases of renewable energy  4,000 231,526 255,797 231,561 239,571 
Voluntary purchases of no low-carbon energy 0 0 0 0 0 
Electricity (purchased) 584,000 638,023 589,217 525,299    480,595  
Supplier-specific renewable energy 18,000 78,182 18,416 7,301 2,566 
Asia Pacific and Japan 1,568,000 1,448,000 1,451,000 1,347,000 1,219,000 
Diesel gas oil LPG      726 1,462 691 763 1,441 
Natural gas 154,822 162,716 161,653 131,551 117,945  
Americas 1,670,000 1,476,000 1,648,000 1,306,000 1,126,000 
District cooling and heating (purchased) 0 3,960 5,606 4,224 3,395 
Renewable (generated on-site) 134 960 1,731 1,536 1,525 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 297,000 319,000 307,000 277,000 252,000 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 93,000 149,301 132,578 101,580   103,945 
Americas 124,601 129,715 122,564 113,385 106,738 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 21,596 29,448 31,262 12,342 9,760 
Asia Pacific and Japan 8,625 3,553 7,828 5,824 1,447 
Americas 301,000 260,392 229,653 217,727   192,520 
Asia Pacific and Japan 190,000 228,330 226,986 205,992   184,130 
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 3,960 5,606 4,224 3,395 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 0 
Americas 0 0 0 0 0 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
Nonhazardous waste, by region     [tonnes] 27,800 28,400 30,700 13,000 14,200 
Nonhazardous waste and used electronic   equipment recovered from HP operations   landfill diversion rate [% of total produced] 
Water withdrawal intensity   [cubic meters     million of net revenue] 73.3 62.3 58.3 49.8 45.9 
Recycled or reused water     [% of total water withdrawal] 25.5% 17.1% 12.2% 10.2% 10.4% 
Water withdrawal, by source   [cubic meters] 3,534,000 3,243,000 3,406,000 2,930,000 2,597,000 
Nonhazardous waste by type [tonnes]   28,400 30,700 13,000 14,200 
Hazardous waste   [tonnes] 5,560 5,410 7,620 4,660 6,060 
Used electronic equipment recovered from   HP operations  [tonnes] 1,100 1,300 400 400 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 2,370 2,280 1,090 1,570 2,010 
Americas 1,600 1,750 990 1,100 1,180 
(NEWater)  725,000 533,000 407,000 301,000 269,000 
Asia Pacific and Japan 3,900 5,000 12,600 2,100 2,300 
Asia Pacific and Japan 95.1% 94.6% 94.6% 96.9% 95.8% 
Asia Pacific and Japan 1,590 1,380 5,540 1,990 2,870 
Global 90.1% 90.9% 90.9% 91.8% 85.2% 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 8,000 8,400 5,800 3,900 4,800 
Americas 15,900 15,000 12,300 7,000 7,100 
Rain water 0 1,000 2,000 1,000 1,000 
Well water 58,000 82,000 59,000 29,000 20,000 
Landfilled   2,700 2,900 1,100 2,200 
Recycled   23,400 26,800 11,300 10,700 
Waste-to-energy   2,300 1,000 600 1,300 
Americas 91.2% 91.6% 91.6% 91.2% 90.6% 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 85.4% 87.4% 87.4% 89.9% 71.5% 
Municipal water 2,751,000 2,627,000 2,938,000 2,599,000 2,307,000 
Reused treated sewage treatment plant  water  [cubic meters] 1,000 15,000 8,000 0 0 
Wastewater from another organization     
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
    See About our operational data. 
    This data is restated compared to data reported in the HP 2019 Sustainable Impact Report, to correct double counting of a  
     Fuel consumption from HP s transportation fleet is not included in the Direct energy use in operations figures. 
      Diesel is mostly used at HP for testing generators. In limited cases, diesel is also used for long-term on-site energy  
    Renewable energy and renewable energy credits, excluding renewable energy provided by default in the power grid. 
     Water withdrawal  includes municipal water, wastewater from another organization, tanker water, rain water (beginning in  
     NEWater is ultra-purified wastewater used in manufacturing operations in Singapore. 
    This water is used for landscaping and toilets. 
    Historical water withdrawal intensity values were calculated using HP s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting  
     This includes NEWater (ultra-purified wastewater used in manufacturing operations in Singapore) as well as recycled or  
      To provide additional transparency, this report presents used electronic equipment recovered from HP operations as a  
    We reuse electronic equipment when possible or recycle it responsibly through the same programs we offer customers.   See Product repair, reuse, and recycling. 
    Includes all waste not sent to a municipal solid waste or recycling facility. This conservative approach classifies all waste  managed by our hazardous waste vendor as hazardous, unless we can definitively determine it to be nonhazardous. 
     For 2016, we calculated ozone-depleting substances emissions by tracking sites that reported refrigerant replacement  
     This data represents safety or environmental violations from a federal or state agency. 
76  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Number of violations of legal obligations  regulations     0 0 4 1 1 
Fines penalties related to the above [ ]  0  0  0  0  0 
Ozone depletion potential of estimated  emissions    [kg of CFC-11 equivalent] 24 10 5 19 4 
portion of renewable energy with purchased electricity. This did not impact GHG emissions data or renewable energy accounting. 
generation. 
2017), and well water. Direct use of surface water is insignificant and not included in data reported. Water withdrawal does  not include reused treated sewage treatment plant water. 
and water withdrawal. 
reused water reported by sites globally. Grey water is included, rain water is not. 
separate category, beginning with data for 2017. 
due to leakage, and applied an intensity factor (based on those actual quantities) for nonreporting sites. For 2017, HP  transitioned to a system that tracks all refrigerant work orders company-wide, directly accounting for facilities  refrigerant  leakage and use and eliminating the need for extrapolation. We use various tools and sources for global warming potential  and ozone depletion values including the Greenhouse Gas Protocol s GHG Emissions from Refrigeration and Air Conditioning  tool, IPCC Second Assessment Report (1995).  
Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 0 
Americas 5 0 2 18 1 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 18 10 4 1 3 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Operations 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
Community giving and volunteerism 
    Social investments include all corporate giving made to nonprofit organizations from HP plus the valuation of employee  volunteer hours. Data excludes contributions to the HP Foundation and employee donations but includes HP s matching  contributions and contributions from the HP Foundation to other organizations. 
    Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment  
      Services  equals the valuation of HP employee volunteer hours. Valuation rates are based on CECP standards.  
   Data from 2016 2019 are revised to reflect amended program metrics and previously uncaptured historical data.  
   HP LIFE users are also included in the overall students and adult learners data above.  
Students and adult learners benefiting from  HP s education programs and solutions  5,142,000 5,599,000 6,310,000 7,777,000 20,785,000 
Employee volunteer hours 54,800 89,500 140,000 145,000 127,000 
Social investment  [  million]  6.31  7.60  15.76  14.60   34.87  
HP LIFE users enrolled   53,000 56,000 57,000 49,000 155,000 
Contributions to Cash Matching Program [  million]   
HP education programs and solutions 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. 
Company cash contributions  1.06  0.55  2.15  2.89  3.71  
HP Foundation cash contributions  1.93  2.82  4.34  4.40  9.88 
Services     1.41  3.50  4.30  5.43  7.42  
Social investment [% of net earnings] 0.30% 0.30% 0.30% 0.46% 1.23%  
U.S. employee contributions to Cash   Matching Program  1.13  1.70  2.07  2.13  2.65  
Products    1.91  0.73  4.97  1.88  13.86 
HP Foundation contributions to Cash   Matching Program  0.99   1.66  1.89  1.96  3.66  
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
Products and solutions 
78 Advancing a circular and net zero carbon economy  
96 Product responsibility  
98 Social Impact  
104 Products and solutions portfolio  
77  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Appendix Operations Integrity and human rights Footprint Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
Advancing a circular and net zero carbon economy 
We help our customers invent the future  
with innovative products and services to  
provide an increasingly circular experience.  
Our vision is to become a fully circular  
company powered by service models, which  
will affect every part of our business. To  
minimize environmental impacts, we are  
working toward reusing products and parts,  
using only recycled or renewable materials in  
our products, and eliminating potentially  
harmful substances. We extend product life  
through maintenance, upgrades, repair, and  
innovative service-based business models.  
At end of service, we strive to reuse or  
recover all products. Underpinning these  
efforts, we aspire to 100% use of renewable  
energy and zero waste processes in  
manufacturing. 
We will continue to innovate throughout our  
product portfolio and work with suppliers  
and channel partners to increase circularity. 
We apply rigorous circular design principles  
to drive progress toward a circular and net  
zero carbon economy through our portfolio  
of personal systems, home and office  
printing solutions, large format printing,  
industrial graphics, and 3D printing products  
and solutions. Far-reaching goals from  
increasing our use of postconsumer recycled  
content plastic and reducing single-use  
78  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
Progress in 2020 41%  
circular by weight 
(this equals the sum of the three metrics below) 34,200 tonnes 
of recycled content plastic used in HP products   
and packaging (4% of total materials use) 
100,800  tonnes 
of recycled fiber in HP brand paper and packaging   
(11% of total materials use) 248,300  tonnes 
of certified sustainably managed fiber in HP brand   
paper and packaging (26% of total materials use) 
2030 PRODUCTS AND PACKAGING  
CIRCULARITY GOAL 
circularity for products and packaging by 2030 
plastic packaging to decreasing HP product  
use greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  
intensity and recycling hardware and  
supplies underpin these efforts. 
Four key strategies (see graphic) guide our  
efforts to transform business models and  
Design out waste  and use materials  responsibly  
Increasing materials e iciency,  using more recycled content,  and replacing materials of  concern. 
Regenerate  natural systems  
Partnering to actively strengthen  the natural systems that  sustain life, with a focus on  tackling ocean plastic pollution  and protecting and restoring  global forests. 
We have shifted to a  system  where we 
decouple business growth from resource  
consumption. By focusing on these areas, we  
will continue to shrink our environmental  
footprint, support our customers to meet  
their own sustainability goals, and realize  
long-term sustainable impact. 
Create a net zero  carbon future  
Improving product energy  e iciency to reduce customers   energy consumption and  decrease product use carbon  and water footprints.  
Keep products and  materials in use  
Designing products for long life,  o ering service-based solutions  that improve customer value and  decrease environmental impacts,  and recapturing products and  materials at end of service for  repair, reuse, and recycling. 
See how HP is partnering to advance   a more circular and inclusive economy  
in Europe.   
Design for Circularity  
Design plays a critical role in determining a  
product s environmental impacts. We apply  
rigorous design principles to improve the  
environmental performance of our products  
across the life cycle. In 1992, we developed  
our Design for the Environment program  
to formally consider factors impacting  
sustainability performance throughout the  
product design and development phases.  
We currently call this program Design for  
Circularity to reflect how we are designing  
products and business processes for a  
circular economy.  
We use a science-based approach to  
evaluate our products, identify and prioritize  
improvement opportunities, and set goals.  
79  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
Among our main design priorities, we work to  
increase the use of recycled and renewable  
materials and replace materials of concern   
enhance product repairability, reusability and  
recyclability  continually improve product  
energy efficiency  and build in accessibility  
features. Our program has continually  
evolved in response to technological and  
scientific developments, changes to our  
supply chain, and customer demand. 
To support HP s efforts to become a more circular business, we assessed our  
performance using the Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF) Circulytics tool in early  
2021. Developed by the EMF to accelerate the transition to the circular economy, it  
is a comprehensive circularity measurement system for companies. 
The assessment includes data across dozens of metrics, including a company s  
products, material flows, energy, water, infrastructure, and leadership. It considers  
corporate-level enablers that prepare an organization for transition to a more  
circular approach, such as strategy and planning, innovation, engagement, and  
operations, as well as outcomes in areas such as products and materials, services,  
and energy. 
The assessment has established a strong baseline for us and confirmed our areas  
of focus. We plan to repeat the analysis annually to inform our approach and help  
drive progress. 
Product design and development operations  
for our Home and Office Printing Solutions  
and Personal Systems product groups are  
ISO 14001 certified. We conduct internal  
compliance audits and benchmark against  
industry best practices on an ongoing basis. 
Relevant products obtain a range of  
external certifications. 
The analog-to-  digital shift  
HP industrial graphics and 3D printing  
technologies are driving an analog-to-digital  
shift. These technologies can enable cost- 
efficient short runs that reduce inventory  
and waste and enable companies to engage  
with customers in new and exciting ways,  
including through customized and quicker- 
to-market products. 
Our industrial graphics solutions deliver  
benefits to customers in the publishing,  
packaging, and labeling sectors. During  
2019, we extended our technology and  
expertise into food packaging printing and  
textiles printing. 
HP s 3D printing technologies are at the  
forefront of digital transformation in the  
manufacturing sector, enabling parts and  
products to be designed, prototyped, and  
manufactured in a fraction of the time  
needed by conventional manufacturing. In an  
increasingly connected world, digital product  
design and build files can be sent anywhere,  
bringing manufacturing closer to the  
consumer, accelerating product delivery, and  
reducing transportation-related greenhouse  
gas (GHG) emissions footprints. HP s Digital  
Manufacturing Trends Report describes how  
manufacturing executives worldwide see 3D  
printing as integral to a new value chain that  
enables mass product personalization. The  
report also demonstrates industry intentions  
to deploy 3D printing for more circular and  
sustainable production.  
Across the rest of our portfolio, we offer  
solutions that apply digital technology to  
improve traditionally analog processes. HP  
has worked closely with customers across  
product design, architecture, engineering,  
training, healthcare, and location-based  
entertainment to apply virtual reality (VR)  
technology to address key challenges. HP s  
VR solutions for businesses can be applied  
to product development, employee training,  
walk-through simulation, and immersive  
experiences. Augmented reality and VR in  
employee training can replace classroom- 
style learning for a more engaging  
experience, or can be used to train for  
specific manual tasks, such as performing  
surgery or building machinery. Use of VR  
technology can also replace travel and  
reduce associated GHG emissions.  
80  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
Life cycle assessment  
HP uses life cycle assessment (LCA) and  
product carbon footprinting (PCF) 
quantify the environmental impacts of our  
products, analyze possible alternatives, and  
target product performance improvements  
that deliver value to our customers and  
our business. We have conducted LCAs  
and PCFs of hundreds of products over the  
last several years, covering our product  
portfolio. As we develop and expand our  
service-based models (which we refer to as  
circular business solutions), we will continue  
to study and quantify the potential they  
have to reduce environmental impacts and  
drive progress toward a circular and net zero  
carbon economy. In 2020, we: 
  Conducted or updated 38 LCAs of HP  
  Completed 117 PCFs of new business  
  Began development of a  cradle-to- 
desktop, DesignJet, Scanners, and  
enterprise printers.  
HP desktops, notebooks, tablets,  
workstations, thin clients, all-in-one  
computers, and displays to better  
understand performance and inform  
ongoing design improvements. 
grave  environmental impact assessment  
tool for Indigo Flexible packaging  
customers, to build and compare different  
scenarios for flexible pouch production  
using the HP Indigo 25K digital press. 
We follow LCA standards ISO 14040 and  
ISO 14044. For PCF, we use International  
Electrotechnical Commission Technical  
Report 62921, a streamlined methodology  
for assessing the carbon footprint of  
computer and display products. We  
continually update our LCA and PCF tools  
to ensure that they provide current and  
accurate information. 
  Quantified the environmental benefits of  
  Conducted a carbon footprint and material  
  Compared traditionally manufactured  
recycling Original HP supplies through  
the Planet Partners program. Customers  
will be able to generate a customized  
report on the Planet Partners website  
regarding materials breakdown and GHG  
emissions reduced. 
flow study of HP s Customer Support  
organization, establishing net zero carbon  
and circular economy baselines to identify  
focus areas and support decision-making  
and investments. 
metal parts used in the production of HP  
DesignJet T3600 large format printers  
with plastic alternatives, created using  
HP Jet Fusion 3D printers. The plastic  
parts may result in up to 74% less GHG  
emissions or up to 87% if manufactured  
using renewable energy. 
Product certifications   and other information  
Product certifications help drive  
performance across the industry by  
providing comprehensive information  
that enables customers to make more  
sustainable product choices. In 2020,  
approximately  7 billion of HP sales was  
enabled by eco labels, accessibility, human  
rights, and supply chain responsibility. 
We share extensive product safety  
and environmental information online  
and contribute to the development of  
new standards. 
Large format printing  
The newest water-based HP Latex Ink  
qualifies for a range of certifications for  
For example, this HP Latex Ink is certified to  
UL ECOLOGO  and HP was the first printing  
manufacturer with UL ECOLOGO-certified  
ink. These inks also comply with toy safety  
standards. 6 HP Latex Ink has achieved  
GREENGUARD Gold certification for meeting  
some of the world s most rigorous standards  
for low chemical emissions in indoor air for  
the finished print.  
81  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
health and environmental performance.  
   EPEAT data for personal systems is for models registered worldwide and for printers is for models registered in the United States. ENERGY STAR data for personal systems (version 8.0) is worldwide and for printers (version 3.0) is for products sold in the United  
    The new EPEAT standard IEEE 1680.1-2018 for computers and displays went into effect January, 2019. HP made significant efforts to update its products to the more stringent requirements, but did not re-register some older products near the end of their shipping life. 
Printers 88% 13% 80% 6% 93% 95% N A 76% 
Products EPEAT  identifies high-performance, environmentally preferable products ENERGY STAR   recognizes products with  superior energy efficiency 
Personal systems 61%   17%   43%   0% 84% 46% 37% N A 
States. China SEPA data applies only to products registered in China. TCO data is for commercial desktops, notebooks, all-in-ones, and displays shipped worldwide. Blue Angel applies only to products registered in Germany. All data is for models shipped anytime  during fiscal year 2020.  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
Blue Angel recognizes criteria in product  design, energy consumption, chemical  emissions, noise, recyclable design,  and take-back programs EPEAT (all) EPEAT Gold  registered EPEAT Silver  registered EPEAT Bronze  registered 
See also:  
  Eco-labels  
  ECO Declarations: In 2020, HP provided  
  HP Carbon Footprint Calculators  
  HP product carbon footprint reports  
  Product compliance declarations  
  Safety Data Sheets  
ECO Declarations for product groups  
representing 94% of revenue  
and certifications  
Eco-labels across our personal systems and printers portfolio 
% models, for products shipped in 2020  
Keep products and  materials in use  
We design our products to last, and make  
them easy to repair, so they can stay in use  
for as long as possible. Innovative service- 
based solutions, such as HP Device as a  
Service and HP Managed Print Services,  
reduce environmental impacts through  
extended life, device optimization, and easy  
take-back. When customers return end- 
of-service products, our repair, reuse, and  
recycling programs help to cycle products  
and materials back through the economy. 
China SEPA recognizes energy-saving  and environmentally  preferable models 
TCO recognizes various ergonomic  and environmental features  related to personal systems 
Durability, repairability,   and reusability 
HP products are often highly rated for  
durability and repairability. We offer services  
related to optimization, maintenance, and  
renewal that extend product life, capture  
more value from natural resources, and  
reduce environmental impact. 
We provide free service documentation for  
most products, supplemented with service  
options and warranties, including through  
HP Care Pack Central. The HP Customer Self  
Repair web page includes information in that  
area, and the HP Parts Store sells PC and  
HP ProBook 440 G7 all scored 9 out of 10.  
Several HP personal systems products  
received high reparability assessment  
scores from the iFixit product repair site in  
2020, which noted easily removable key  
components, modular designs, labeling, and  
other features. The HP EliteBook 800 G5  
printer parts. HP Recover and Renew  
Services helps customers securely recover  
and repurpose or recycle end-of-use devices. 
In 2020, HP repaired 5.31 million units  of hardware (20,000 tonnes) and  remarketed reused 1.28 million units  (5,900 tonnes). See Product repair,  reuse, and recycling for detail. 
Personal systems  
We test the quality and durability of our Pro  
and Elite notebooks, Pro and Elite desktops  
and all-in-ones, and select workstations  
and mobile thin clients using the rigorous  
MIL-STD-810G standard. For further details,  
see our technical white paper about testing  
the business ruggedness and reliability of HP  
Business PCs. 
scored 10 out of 10, and the HP EliteBook  
840 G7, HP EliteBook 830 x360 G7, and   
82  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
Home and office   printing solutions  
Many of HP s home and office printers  
adhere to relevant eco-label standards  
for extending product life and conserving  
materials, including EPEAT  specifications  
based on IEEE standard 1680.2 as well as  
Blue Angel environmental criteria.  
Through modular design, we increase  
upgradeability and enable many of our  
printers to be easily disassembled for repair  
or recycling. Customers can exchange  
parts and have access to a range of repair  
options. Our printers conform with design  
requirements to increase the reusability of  
components and assemblies. Spare parts  
are available until at least three years after   
a printer has ceased production. 7 
HP PageWide T200 200 color feet per minute 30 million pages month 
Initial Investment 
2010 2012 2016 2020 
Upgrade   2x color speed Upgrade   2x nozzles   25% speed Upgrade   2x media versatility 
HP PageWide T230 400 color feet per minute 50 million pages month 
Upgrades: Printheads,   A5O Ink, Software 
How HP protects industrial graphics investments 
Seamless upgrades to capture all new press features 
customers used the capabilities of HP Latex  
HP Latex Inks are designed to provide  
indoor and outdoor durability and versatility  
across common media types used in sign  
and display applications. Learn more. Our  
Large format printing 
We added to our media portfolio this year  
with the launch of HP Splash-resistant Bond  
Paper, an economical bond paper offering  
customers improved splash resistance 8  
with HP Bright Office Inks on HP DesignJet  
T-series printers. In addition, tests of our  
HP Vivid Photo Inks with our Z9  printer  
demonstrate the highest print permanence  
in the industry. 
printing to produce COVID-19 floor stickers  
to help people maintain a safe distance in  
grocery stores and other public settings. 
HP PageWide T240 HD 500 color feet per minute 62 million pages month 
Upgrades: Print Quality,  Electronics, Printheads,  Software, Optional Dryers,   DFE, and Primer 
Industrial graphics 
HP Indigo and PageWide digital presses are  
major capital investments for our customers  
and are designed for upgradeability, repair,  
and refurbishment. Through firmware  
updates and component upgrades, HP  
Indigo presses used by customers are kept  
up to date. Due to continuous upgrades  
of components and technologies such as  
printheads, electronics, software, and inks,  
customers who invested in a PageWide T200  
press in 2010 now experience more than  
twice the speed, with even greater print  
quality and media versatility. 
Upgrades: Print Quality,   Color Vision, Media Versatility   HP Brilliant Ink 
HP PageWide T250 HD 500 color feet per minute 62 million pages month 
3D printing 
3D printing facilitates on-demand  
manufacturing of spare parts, with the  
potential to transform the parts supply   
chain and support extended product use.  
Using HP Multi Jet Fusion technology, we are  
ramping up spare parts production in our  
own business. This enables us to provide  
spare parts to customers all over the world  
at low volumes and low cost, extending   
the life of HP products. Watch video. HP  
customers can also use HP technology to   
3D print spare parts for their customers. 
Circular business solutions  
HP s service-based solutions are designed  
to deliver increased value to customers  
through reduced environmental impact and  
capital costs. Customers can access the  
latest technology, while HP manages the  
fleet, and an ongoing relationship provides  
valuable insights on end user behavior and  
needs. Our service offerings include regular  
maintenance, which has the potential to keep  
hardware in use for longer and reduce waste.  
Decreasing individual product shipments  
and customer store visits also reduces GHG  
emissions. At end of service, we recapture  
value from materials through a range of  
product repair, reuse, and recycling options. 
83  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
During 2019, we conducted three LCAs  to quantify the environmental benefits  
of circular business solutions compared  to transactional product purchases.   See our white paper, Assessment Shows  Service-Based Models Deliver Positive  Environmental Impact, for more detail. 
Personal systems  
Our expanding Device as a Service  
(DaaS) offering provides customers the  
latest HP technology while improving  
cost predictability and enabling a better  
employee experience. Business customers  
can upgrade their products to the most  
current and efficient models, with the  
purchasing and consumption model that  
works best for them. Compared with  
transactional sales, an LCA we conducted  
in 2019 shows that DaaS reduces GHG  
emissions by 25%, improves resource  
efficiency by 28%, decreases ecosystems  
impacts by 28%, and reduces human health  
impacts by 29% for a notebook PC. These  
improvements are mainly due to keeping  
PCs in use for multiple life cycles, which  
avoids manufacturing of additional devices  
and extends the life of high-value materials. 
Through HP Recover and Renew Services,  
commercial customers can securely recover,  
repurpose, or recycle HP or non-HP personal  
systems devices 
  HP Device Recovery Service: We buy  
  HP Sanitization Service: Confidential data  
  HP Recycling Service: Devices are  
used devices securely to give them new  
purpose, extend their lifespans, and  
reduce negative environmental impact.  
Customers receive reverse logistics,  
data sanitization with a certificate, a  
sustainability benefit report, and the fair  
market value of the device. 
is securely erased according to the NIST  
800-88 standard, or the storage media is  
destroyed, before removing or recycling  
customers  old devices. Customers  
receive a certificate of data sanitization if  
they purchase that service.  
recycled securely, and customers receive  
a certificate of destruction if they use  
that service. 
9 when they reach end  
Home and office printing  solutions  
HP Managed Print Services (MPS) helps  
clients manage and optimize their printer  
fleets and digital workflows by combining  
hardware, supplies, software, and consulting  
and management services.  
As of October 2020, HP MPS is certified  
CarbonNeutral  in accordance with the  
CarbonNeutral Protocol. 
most comprehensive carbon neutral  
Managed Print Service offering, HP is  
working to reduce carbon emissions across  
the entire life cycle of our products, and  
finances high-quality carbon offset projects  
to offset any remaining GHG emissions from  
a customer s HP MPS fleet. 
meet rigorous third-party standards and  
are designed to benefit people and planet,  
ranging from biodiversity conservation and  
wind power to native forest regeneration.  
Learn more.  
HP MPS end-to-end solutions for HP- 
branded devices can help businesses reduce  
and offset the carbon impact of printing by:  
10 As the planet s  
11 These projects  
service anticipates when ink is running low  
and sends replenishments and new recycling  
envelopes 18 straight to our customers  doors.  
Servicing and maintaining printer fleets, and  
renewing and redeploying units as feasible,  
has the potential to keep printing equipment  
in use for longer. Preparation for remarketing  
includes testing and secure data cleansing,  
while nonfunctional equipment is recycled  
responsibly in accordance with HP policies.  
HP Instant Ink helps home users and  
microbusinesses remain productive by  
ensuring they never run out of ink. 17 The  
we conducted determined that HP Instant Ink  
on average decreases the carbon footprint of  
ink purchase and distribution by 73%, while  
reducing energy use by 69% and lowering  
water use by 70%, compared with cartridge  
purchase and recycling through traditional  
84  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Customers using this service save up to 50%  
on ink. 19 In addition to these benefits, an LCA  
  Estimating the total carbon emissions  
  Improving resource efficiency by 13%. 
  Decreasing ecosystem impacts by 12%. 
  Reducing paper waste by 25%. 15 
  Offsetting 100% of GHG emissions. 
from HP-branded printing solution using  
HP s proprietary Sustainable Impact  
Reporting and Analytics (SIRA) tool. 12  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
materials use (higher capacity cartridges,  
less packaging, and higher recycling rates)  
customers in those countries. We also  
expanded HP Instant Ink with a toner-based  
service in the United States in 2020 through  
Staples stores, and plan to further expand  
both programs over time. 
retail channels. 20 Key factors include reduced  
and simplified distribution (bulk shipping and  
avoided trips to the store). 
We expanded this service from 18 to 36  
countries in early 2021, including introducing  
envelope-based 21 cartridge recycling for  
Industrial graphics  
HP offers print-as-a-service in our industrial  
graphics portfolio with the Indigo click- 
charge per-print and monthly service  
business models, which include supplies  
and spare parts. We continually invest  
in innovations to extend the lifespan of  
supplies and spare parts, to provide these  
services to customers in the most resource- 
efficient way. 
HP Print OS is a cloud-based print production  
operating system that helps our customers  
get more out of their HP presses and  
printers. It makes it easy to manage any  
number of print jobs from submission to  
products eventually reach the end of their  
service, our robust repair, reuse, and  
recycling programs help to ensure that  
products and materials are repurposed,  
shipment, increasing press utilization,  
automating production, and delivering  
accurate color consistently between runs,  
across presses, and across sites.  
HP provides services to repair, renew, and  
upgrade our industrial graphics presses, as  
well as consumables recycling and end-of- 
service solutions. 
Product repair, reuse,   and recycling  
We design HP products to use resources  
efficiently and to last a long time. When our  
(reusable  parts, ease of  disassembly, recyclable  
 minimized materials of    concern, etc.) 
Design for recovery  
reusable materials,  
A broad approach to capturing value at product end of service 
repair, renew,    and reuse to extend   the life of products 
Recover, upgrade,   
which keeps them at their highest value  
state for as long as possible. This circular  
flow reduces waste and can give materials  
and products renewed life. These efforts  
support our transformation toward a more  
materials-efficient circular model. 
PRODUCT RECYCLING GOAL  
Recycle 1.2 million tonnes of hardware and  
supplies by 2025, since the beginning of 2016  
PROGRESS THROUGH 2020 
Recycled 642,300 tonnes 
Recycle materials  into new products 
Customer take-back programs 
HP provides take-back programs in 77 countries and territories worldwide 22 through a global network of reuse and recycling vendors. These offerings vary by location. 
Program Description Progress in 2020 
Hardware Our remanufacturing programs help to extend hardware lifespan, reducing  environmental impacts from replacing products that still have useful life. 
Available in   66 countries and  territories 
Ink and toner   cartridges 
Available in   67 countries and  territories 
We also offer responsible processing for batteries and recycling for large format media supplies, 3D consumables, and packaging. 
    Descriptions of offerings in this table are as of report publication. Performance data is as of October 31, 2020. Availability of offerings varies by location. View full list of reuse and recycling programs by country.  
     The repair, remarketing, and reuse rate is based on the weight of hardware products returned for repair, remarketing, and reuse compared to the weight of our product sales during the year.  
     Recycling volumes in 2020 were adversely impacted by lockdowns and customer behavior impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.  
      During 2020, 54,500 tonnes of waste electronic equipment was collected on HP s behalf to comply with producer responsibility requirements of the EU WEEE Directive, compared to 119,000 tonnes of HP electronic equipment placed on the relevant markets  
       The recycling rate is based on the weight of hardware products returned for recycling compared to the weight of our product sales from seven years ago (the estimated average lifespan of our products). It is impractical for HP to report the recycling rate by  product category, as materials are not typically sorted at collection points. This rate also does not include packaging recycling due to limited data available from recyclers. 
85  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Repair, remarketing, and reuse 
Recycling    
during the year. Data includes EU countries in which the authorities or the legislative system provide visibility of the recycling volume allocated to HP. Take-back volumes related to non-EU legislation are excluded.  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
Home and commercial customers can return Original HP Ink and Toner  Cartridges for free to more than 18,500 authorized sites worldwide.   Free pickup and mail-back options are available in most countries. 
We provide customers guidance about how to repair their own HP product.  See Durability, repairability, and reusability.  
HP Device Recovery Service provides commercial customers reverse  logistics, data sanitization with a certificate, a sustainability benefit report,  and the fair market value of the device.  
HP recycles hardware that cannot be economically repaired or reused. 
We belong to compliance systems to comply with producer responsibility  requirements of the European Union (WEEE) Directive     and end-of-life  legal obligations in countries across our Americas, Asia Pacific and Japan,  and Europe, Middle East, and Africa regions.  
Consumers, home office, and commercial users have various recycling  options for used equipment, including HP recycling vendors that provide  take-back and recycling services or free drop-off for our products in   many countries. 
In the United States, customers can drop off hardware at Best Buy stores  through our closed-loop recycling program. 
HP provides free and convenient ways to recycle used Original HP Ink and  Toner Cartridges and Samsung Toner Cartridges.  
HP global take-back programs for customers  
Our Hardware Reuse Standard outlines our requirements for vendors  and subvendors who provide reuse, remanufacturing, or remarketing  services for HP. 
Reuse vendors must comply with the Media Handling Standard for  information security (included in the Hardware Reuse Standard), which  requires the full and documented erasure or destruction of all data- containing devices. 
HP Recycling Services offers custom recycling programs for  commercial and enterprise customers, that include reverse logistics  and data sanitization with a certificate if they purchase that service. 
Watch our video showing the recycling process. 
Recycling vendors must comply with the Hardware Recycling Standard.  
Recycling vendors must comply with the Media Handling Standard for  information security (included in the Hardware Recycling Standard),  which requires the full and documented erasure or destruction of all  data-containing devices. 
We publish disassembly instructions for use by end-of-life recyclers   or treatment facilities. 
See how we recycle ink cartridges and toner cartridges. 
Recycling vendors must comply with the HP Supplies   Recycling Standard. 
See HP s new, mobile-friendly supplies recycling website.  
106,000   tonnes 
5.31 million 
units of hardware repaired  (20,000 tonnes) 
overall repair, remarketing,  and reuse rate of relevant HP  hardware sales worldwide   
of hardware recycled 
overall recycling rate of  relevant HP hardware  sales worldwide      
10,600 tonnes 
of Original HP and Samsung  Toner Cartridges recycled 
86% of materials recovered  used in other products,  and 0% went to landfill 
1.28 million 
units of hardware  remarketed and reused  (5,900 tonnes) 
of total volume of products  and materials taken back in  2020 was reused or recycled  by HP or by a third party 
1,300 tonnes 
of Original HP Ink  Cartridges recycled 
74% of materials recovered  used in other products,  and 0% went to landfill 
Product reuse   and recycling vendors  
We work with a global network of vendors to  
provide product reuse and recycling services  
to customers around the world.  
During 2017, to promote transparency and  
drive social and environmental standards  
in the electronics industry supply chain, we  
published a detailed list of our recycling  
vendor sites globally, an IT industry first.  
We also added reuse vendor sites to the  
current list, in 2020. Updated annually, the  
list reflects our confidence in HP s vendor  
network and addresses customer and  
stakeholder expectations about disclosure. 
Vendor audits  
Our specialized reuse and recycling vendors  
are required to follow environmentally  
responsible processing techniques and  
comply fully with relevant regulations. HP  
prefers our vendors to attain third-party  
certification (R2, e-Stewards, or WEEELABEX)  
in line with EPEAT  and HP Recycling  
Standards. In addition, we commission third- 
party audits to monitor vendor conformance  
with our high standards and ensure that  
returned items are processed appropriately.  
We contract with Environmental Resources  
Management (ERM) to audit vendors for  
conformance with the following policies and  
vendor standards: 
86  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
  Export of Electronic Waste to Developing  
Countries Policy  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
serious type of vendor nonconformance and  
require immediate action. During site audits  
identified nonconformances must submit  
corrective action plans within 30 days and  
address those items within 90 days. In  
extreme cases, we will cease business with  
vendors that lack sufficient transparency  
or are unwilling to make the changes  
we require.  
Through ERM, HP audited 34 vendor  
facilities in 22 countries during 2020.  
This included repeat audits of 19 vendor  
facilities to evaluate their efforts to  
improve performance. Because 51% of  
major nonconformances occurred at sites  
audited for the first time, HP s engagement  
brought best practices, enabling immediate  
performance improvements. HP has  
closed investigations of 100% of the major  
nonconformances identified in 2020. Most  
sites with major nonconformances will be  
re-audited the following year to determine  
whether improvements are sustained.  
Immediate priority findings 
in 2020, four immediate priority findings were  
identified at three recycling vendor sites upon  
Audits assess vendors  environmental,  
health, and safety practices and  
performance, and ensure there is no  
 leakage  of materials to facilities outside  
our approved vendor network. Vendors with  
  HP Supplier Code of Conduct 
  Reuse and Recycling Standards 
23 are the most  
  As of April 2021. 
  Includes site security and controls, management systems,  labor, data destruction, and approved dispositions of  processed materials. Findings related to data destruction  were limited gaps in processes, not breaches of data security. 
Major  nonconformances  identified 
Major  nonconformances  resolved  
Countries 15 20 24 22 
Insurance 11% 5% 4% 
Subvendor use and audits 8% 3% 6% 
Other  16% 34% 24% 
Repeat audits 23 28 30 19 
Environment 18% 14% 16% 
Hazardous substance  emergency response 11% 10% 6% 
Initial audits 9 13 4 15 
Immediate priority  findings 1 2 1 4 
Health and safety 36% 34% 44% 
Categories of   major nonconformance 
Reuse and recycling  vendor audits 
percentage of total  
100% 100% 100% 100%  
2017 2018 2019 2020 
2018 2019 2020 
re-audits. In all cases, we worked closely with  
the vendor to resolve and close the findings.  
This reiterates the importance of revisiting  
these vendor locations in the following year  
to confirm closure is sustained. 
Read a statement from ERM. 
Create a net zero  carbon future 
The energy consumed by our products  
during use is one of the largest contributors  
to our carbon and water footprints. To help  
our customers decrease energy consumption  
and GHG emissions, we design for energy  
efficiency and offer convenient service- 
based solutions that are designed to deliver  
increased value to customers through  
reduced environmental impact and capital  
costs. We use multiple metrics to assess  
progress and drive improvement.  
HP was recognized as an ENERGY STAR   Partner of the Year in 2021, for the  fourth year in a row (2nd for Sustained  Excellence). 
Product energy efficiency  
Personal systems  
Since 2010, the energy consumption of our  
personal systems products has dropped  
by 47%, on average. This has included  
average estimated reductions in energy  
consumption of 45% in desktops, 46% in  
notebooks, and 48% in workstations. 
including more efficient CPUs and power  
supplies, contributed to continued reductions  
in typical energy consumption of our  
notebooks and workstations. Those factors  
also benefited desktops, but significant  
increases in memory had a bigger impact.  
Increased sales of Chromebooks and other  
notebooks, which tend to use less energy  
than desktop PCs, was also a factor.  
  The average energy consumption of HP products was estimated annually between 2010 and 2020 using high-volume product  lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume personal systems product lines include notebook and desktop computers, tablets, all-in-ones, workstations, thin clients, and displays. 2019 and 2020 Desktops, Notebooks,  and Workstations data are averages of performance data for multiple product lines weighted by units sold. 2017 and 2018  Desktops, Notebooks, and Workstations data are non-weighted averages of performance data for multiple product lines. Data  in the  Overall  row for all years stated is weighted by units sold. 
87  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Ongoing design improvements in 2020,  
Desktops 0% 49% 47% 54% 45% 
Notebooks 0% 32% 34% 38% 46% 
Workstations 0% 36% 34% 38% 48% 
Overall 0% 25% 34% 43% 44% 50% 47% 
Reduction in energy consumption of HP personal systems products  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
2010 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
% decrease since 2010 
Home and office printing 
Through ongoing innovations such as  
improved fuser technology, increased print  
speeds, and enhanced power management,  
we have driven a multiple decade trend to  
improve the energy efficiency of HP LaserJet  
products. This helps our customers reduce  
energy use in their homes and offices.  
During 2020, 93% of our home and office  
printer models shipped were ENERGY STAR   
certified. Original HP Toner Cartridges with  
JetIntelligence deliver energy-efficient  
printing of premium-quality pages and a lower  
carbon footprint. Printers that use Original  
HP EcoSmart black toner consume 20%  
less energy, on average, than the previous  
generation of HP printers using Original HP  
Toner Cartridges with JetIntelligence did  
when the printers were released. 25 
means we have mapped, calculated, and  
2020, 35% of our overall carbon footprint.  
Industrial graphics 
The manufacture of HP Indigo industrial  
graphics presses is carbon neutral. 26 This  
offset the GHG emissions associated with  
manufacturing our presses, including the  
raw materials used and their transportation  
to the factory. In 2020, we offset 12,650  
tonnes of CO2e emissions. 
Product use carbon and  water footprints 
GHG emissions associated with product  
use equaled 15,800,000 tonnes of CO2e in  
The decrease of 13% in absolute emissions  
from product use compared to 2019 was  
due to a 7% combined decrease in personal  
systems and printer electricity consumption  
of models shipped in 2020. Due in part  
to COVID-19, HP also experienced sales  
declines in commercial print and print  
supplies, which resulted in GHG emissions  
reductions in those categories. 
Sixty-eight percent of product use GHG  
emissions was due to energy use. Paper used  
by customers in HP printers represented  
32%. HP is taking steps to make paper  
use in printing more efficient, through  
The data in this sentence were updated September 24, 2021, to correct inaccurate information stated in the report published  June 9, 2021. The revised sentence updated  55,800,000 cubic meters  to  153,900,000 cubic meters  and  13% lower  to   14% lower , and aligns with the correct data as originally published on page 113. 
during electricity generation as well as water  
product design features such as pull  
printing and automatic two-sided printing.  
In addition, our HP , carbon neutral HP  
Managed Print Services, and sustainable  
forestry initiatives help to reduce and offset  
Product use represented 73% of our water  
footprint, due to the water used for cooling  
use related to paper production. Indirect  
water consumption related to product use  
equaled 153,900,000 cubic meters, 14%  
lower than the prior year, due to the same  
factors that decreased GHG emissions  
(see left).  
See product use carbon and water  footprint  
emissions associated with printers, Original  
HP supplies, and paper due to raw material  
extraction, manufacturing, transportation,  
PRODUCT USE GHG EMISSIONS  
INTENSITY REDUCTION GOAL 
Reduce HP product use GHG emissions intensity  
by 30% by 2025, compared to 2015 
PROGRESS THROUGH 2020  
decrease achieved  we will work to maintain   
that progress in the coming years 
Design out waste  and use materials  responsibly 
To create a circular and net zero carbon  
economy, we must gain the most value  
possible from the materials we use. We  
work to eliminate waste through innovative  
design and efficient manufacturing, and  
create quality products that are durable  
and repairable. We pursue greener  
chemistry through safer alternatives and  
are increasing the recycled and renewable  
content of our products. We use materials  
88  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
  Restrict chemicals of concern for products, packaging,   and manufacturing processes 
  Eliminate unnecessary packaging materials and space   Eliminate hard-to-recycle plastic for packaging 
  Increase materials efficiency    Require sustainable fiber (certified or recycled) for packaging  
  Increase use of recycled plastics and metals for products 
  Generate demand for recycled content by setting targets to  increase its use in our products and packaging  
  Choose materials with higher recycling rates worldwide   Enable circularity by using safer chemical alternatives in  products, packaging, and paper 
thoughtfully so that they can circulate  
efficiently and responsibly through  
the economy. 
HP is a signatory to the Ellen MacArthur  
Foundation (EMF) New Plastics Economy  
Global Commitment to eliminate plastic  
pollution at its source. The three key  
principles of its framework eliminate,  
innovate, and circulate underpin our  
broad approach to all materials used in our  
products and packaging (see graphic). In  
early 2021, we used the EMF Circulytics tool  
to assess the circularity of HP s products,  
services, and overall business. Learn more.  
    The data in this table does not include the following  products or packaging for these products: commercial,  industrial, or 3D printing products  scanners  personal  systems accessories sold separately  spare parts  or the  weight of ink and toner in cartridges. 
     Data for 2019 are restated compared to data reported   
     Includes wires cables, PCAs, LCDs, and batteries.  
      Recycled content plastic in HP products is postconsumer.  
       This material is renewable. As defined in the Global  
Recycled content plastic  in HP products and  packaging     
Material 2019 2020 
Total 990,600   942,000 
Recycled fiber in HP brand  paper and packaging      87,500 100,800 
Certified sustainably  managed fiber in  HP brand paper and  packaging      
in the HP 2019 Sustainable Impact Report to reflect a  more accurate calculation methodology for packaging  materials use. 
Recycled content plastic in HP packaging is a mix of pre- consumer and postconsumer. 
Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards,  renewable material is  material derived from plentiful  resources that are quickly replenished by ecological cycles  or agricultural processes, so that the services provided  by these and other linked resources are not endangered  and remain available for the next generation.  This data  includes paper and paper-based packaging. 
Electronic products 587,800 562,700 
Paper 230,600 213,300 
Packaging   172,200 166,000 
Plastic 270,200 251,500 
Other    108,000 108,400 
Metal 209,600 202,800 
HP materials use  
254,600 248,300 
34,200 34,200 
and office printing, Large format printing,  
Industrial graphics, and 3D printing sections.  
materials in our products and packaging,  
5% less than in 2019. Key factors included a  
shift toward lighter printers better suited to  
printing at home and reduced paper sales.  
Of the materials we used in 2020, 41%  
were recycled content plastic or recycled or  
certified fiber.  
See examples of innovative materials use in  
HP products in the Personal systems, Home  
In addition to our flagship materials,   HP 3D High Reusability PA 12 and HP 3D  High Reusability PA 11 (a raw material  made in part from vegetable castor oil),  we continue to innovate and expand  our portfolio of materials in partnership  with industry-leading companies. Our  latest addition to the portfolio, HP 3D  High Reusability PP enabled by BASF, 29  provides our best value HP 3D material  and delivers consistent performance with  up to 100% surplus powder reusability. 30  We ve also added HP 3D High Reusability  TPA enabled by Evonik 31 that produces  flexible and lightweight 32 parts with  enhanced rebound resilience with an  easy-to-process elastomer, with high  part uniformity. 
In 2020, we used 942,000 tonnes 28 of  
Replace materials   of concern  
We aspire to a world where our products and  
operations use materials and chemicals that  
cause no harm. For more than two decades,  
we have worked to move the electronics  
industry toward safer alternatives to materials  
of concern. See key milestones in our Green  
Chemistry Timeline.  
The HP Materials and Chemical Management  
Policy guides how we specify materials and  
chemicals for use in products, packaging,  
and manufacturing processes. This policy  
applies to all HP employees and businesses  
worldwide and extends to our suppliers. Our  
approach includes:  
Proactively identifying and evaluating  
materials used in our products and  
throughout our supply chain: We publish  
information on the material content of  
we collected an inventory of more than 90%  
of the substances by weight used in 95%  
of HP EPEAT  2020-registered personal  
systems products. As part of our process  
chemicals management, we continue to  
gather chemical data from our suppliers,  
and identify and confirm implementation of  
corrective actions when needed. Learn more.  
89  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
typical HP personal systems and printers,  
and continue to expand our full materials  
disclosure program, which requires  
suppliers to report an ingredients list and  
the amount of each material used. In 2020,  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
progress across the industry. Learn more.  
We do this by assessing published lists of  
substances of concern, customer preferences,  
new or upcoming legal requirements, and  
Production Network (CEPN), HP helps drive  
Prioritizing materials for replacement:   
sound scientific analysis that reveals a  
potential impact on human health or the  
environment. We developed our General  
Specification for the Environment (GSE)   
in 1998, which includes a full list of our  
material restrictions for products, packaging,  
and manufacturing process chemicals.   
We update the GSE annually. 
Replacing substances of concern with  
environmentally preferable alternatives:  
When exploring safer alternatives to  
materials currently in use, we follow a  
precautionary approach and use the  
National Academies of Science publication  
A Framework to Guide Selection of  
Chemical Alternatives and incorporate  
the GreenScreen  for Safer Chemicals  
methodology. We screen all ingredients in  
HP-formulated inks using the GreenScreen  
methodology, as part of our new product  
development process. 
HP contributes to standards, legislation,   
and improved approaches to materials use  
in the IT sector. As a participating member  
of Green America s Clean Electronics  
We are also involved in several initiatives  
under the Clean Production Action coalition,  
including a pilot to calculate the chemical  
footprint of manufacturing process  
chemicals, which is part of our work with  
the Business-NGO Working Group (BizNGO)  
and the Chemical Footprint Project (CFP). In  
the 2020 CFP survey, HP was recognized as  
a frontrunner and shared our answers and  
scores publicly.  
We continually innovate to reduce use  
of materials of concern. Highlights in  
2020 included:  
  In December, we launched five Elite  
  In calendar year 2020, about 81% of  
  All HP workstation PCs, displays, and  
  77% of personal systems product series  
  49% of EPEAT registered personal  
flame retardants. 
Displays without the video cables  
and with a PVC-free power cord that  
uses GreenScreen Benchmark 2 or 3  
flame retardants. 
inkjet printers were shipped without USB  
cords, reducing total materials weight and  
PVC usage. 
accessories switched from solvent-based  
to water-based paints by December 2020,  
and we are working to transition the  
remaining personal systems products  
are low halogen.  
systems products contain GreenScreen  
Benchmark 2 or 3 plasticizers and  
Increase recycled content 
We are both a supplier and user of recovered  
materials, incorporating increasing amounts  
of recycled and recyclable content into  
new HP products. This helps to accelerate  
global market development for recovered  
and recycled materials, to support progress  
toward a circular economy.  
Our primary focus is on recycled plastic  
due to issues related to plastic waste and  
pollution. During 2020, we used a total of  
27,490 tonnes of postconsumer recycled  
content plastic in HP products.  
HP s strategy to use plastics responsibly is to:  
  Eliminate plastic for example, making  
  Substitute plastic with more sustainable,  
  Replace virgin plastic with recycled  
our products smaller and lighter and  
removing plastic from packaging  
where possible. 
alternate materials as we are doing in  
our packaging initiatives, swapping plastic  
foam to molded pulp.  
plastic in line with our goal to use 30%  
postconsumer recycled content plastic in  
our personal systems and print products  
solutions, Large format printing, and  
90  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
See examples of postconsumer recycled  
content plastic use in HP products in the  
Personal systems, Home and office printing  
Industrial graphics sections.  
  Source recycled plastic from locations  
  Invest in take-back and recycling and  
where HP can have positive environmental  
and social impact. We have developed an  
ocean-bound plastic supply chain in Haiti  
and support similar efforts in Indonesia  
with Project Stop. 
encourage our customers to take action  
with us. HP provides take-back programs  
in 77 countries and territories worldwide 33  
by location. 
through a global network of reuse and  
recycling vendors. These offerings vary  
plastic across HP s personal systems and   
print product portfolio by 2025 34 
CONTENT PLASTIC GOAL 
Use 30% postconsumer recycled content   
POSTCONSUMER RECYCLED   
PROGRESS IN 2020 11% 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
   Data for 2019 includes large format printers. Data for 2020 includes large format and industrial graphics printers.  
   Segments for some years do not add up to total due to rounding. 
Through 2020, we manufactured over  4.9 billion Original HP and Samsung  Cartridges using a cumulative 125,000  tonnes of recycled plastic, including from  recycled HP cartridges. This has kept  916 million Original HP Cartridges and an  estimated 127 million apparel hangers  and 5.0 billion postconsumer plastic  bottles out of landfills, instead upcycling  these materials for continued use.  More than 85% of our Original HP Ink  Cartridges contain 4 75% postconsumer  recycled content, and 100% of Original  HP Toner Cartridges contain 1 75%  postconsumer or post-industrial  recycled content. 35 
Original HP Ink Cartridges 5,517 5,901 5,354 5,384 5,767 52.6% 
Large format and industrial  graphics printers  N A N A N A 200 310 10.5% 
Personal systems N A 8,080 8,360 9,650 9,780 15.7%  
Home and office printers N A 1,260 4,790 6,760 8,720 5.8% 
Original HP and Samsung  Toner Cartridges 3,493 2,921 2,746 3,565 2,913  10.2% 
Total   18,160 21,250 25,360 27,490 11% 
Postconsumer recycled content plastic used in HP products 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 % of total plastic  use, 2020  
Metal is an increasing focus for HP,  
particularly as more personal systems  
products transition away from plastic.  
Aluminum and magnesium are two of the  
main metals we use, primarily for thin and  
light notebook enclosure parts. We also use  
steel in many personal systems products  
and printers. These metals are more   
likely to be recyclable through existing  
infrastructure than materials such as  
carbon fiber. 
We are working with suppliers to source  
metals with a significantly higher proportion  
of recycled content than currently available  
on commodity markets, with up to 75%  
post-industrial recycled content aluminum  
and up to 90% post-industrial recycled  
content magnesium, while still meeting the  
demanding industrial design requirements of  
our products. This decreases environmental  
impacts associated with mining and  
producing virgin materials, including energy  
use and associated GHG emissions. 
For example, the HP EliteBook x360 1030  
G8 is designed and manufactured with 75%  
post-industrial recycled aluminum in its  
top cover and 90% post-industrial recycled  
magnesium in its bottom deck and cover. 
To further improve the impacts of metal,   
we are also working to shift from post- 
industrial to postconsumer recycled content  
and increasing use of recycled steel. 
Sustainably minded  accessories  
The HP Prelude Pro backpack and  
topload are designed with the  
environment in mind and combine  
lightweight and stylish design. The  
backpack external surface is made  
with 95% recycled fabric, and the  
topload external surface is made  
with 65% recycled fabric.  
Learn how we gain more value from  
materials through our product repair, reuse,  
Paper and   forestry products 
Paper is integral to the printing process,  
so healthy, resilient forests are essential  
to the future of HP s business. Our forest  
positive vision for printing focuses on  
creating enduring positive change for  
forest environments. 
91  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
and recycling programs. 
Learn about our approach to responsible  
minerals sourcing, which helps ensure there  
is no connection between the materials used  
in HP products and armed violence or human  
rights abuses. 
per liter of ink by 80% and decreases life cycle GHG emissions by 66% compared to a  
plastic ink cartridge, due to savings associated with manufacturing and transport. 37  
HP Eco-Carton Ink Cartridge 
As part of our continuing shift from plastic to alternative materials, our new HP  
Eco-Carton Ink Cartridge for use with HP large format printers, such as the Latex  
700 printer series, contains recycled and certified fiber, and recycled plastics from  
our closed-loop recycling process, beverage bottles, and UL-validated ocean-bound  
plastic resins. Customers can recycle the outer carton locally and return the inner bag  
for free via HP Planet Partners, where available for these products, which will avoid  
any materials going to landfill. 36 The HP Eco-Carton Ink Cartridge reduces plastic use  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
In 2020, we launched the HP Sustainable  
Forests Collaborative, which aims to restore,  
protect, and transition to sustainable  
management more than 200,000 acres  
of forest. This amount of forest would  
typically produce more paper than used by  
HP s consumer printers annually. To help  
regenerate forest ecosystems, we also  
to plant more than 1 million trees by the end  
Through the design of our printers and  
software including defaulting many  
print fleets to double-sided printing and  
reducing paper waste through HP Managed  
Print Services we help customers print  
more responsibly. 
collaborated with the Arbor Day Foundation  
HP s Sustainable Paper and Wood Policy was  
the first forestry policy published by an IT  
company. We require our suppliers and  
licensees to follow this policy for the paper,  
packaging, and wood incorporated into HP  
products that they provide. 
All HP brand paper, paper-based packaging,  
and wood in products must be derived from  
recycled or certified sources. We continue to  
give preference to Forest Stewardship  
Council  (FSC )-certified fiber where  
available. Programme for the Endorsement  
of Forest Certification (PEFC ) certification  
or relevant national certification schemes  
can also be used if they comply with our  
paper policy. We work with WWF s Global  
Forest   Trade Network North America  
(GFTN-NA), FSC, and our suppliers to  
continually improve our programs related to  
the sourcing of virgin fiber and to increase  
Rated a global leader for  addressing deforestation  
For the third time, HP has been  
named to the CDP Forest  A   
list for our programs to protect  
forests and address deforestation  
risk. Learn more.  
the amount of certified fiber in our products  
and packaging. We analyze our supply chain  
to understand areas of specific risk (due to  
weak regulation or ecosystem vulnerability)  
and create specific strategies as needed. HP  
reports progress annually to WWF s GFTN  
and CDP s forests program. 
In 2020, we achieved zero deforestation   
for 99% of HP brand paper and paper-based  
product packaging, with the remaining  
1% assessed to ensure reported fiber  
usage meets HP s Sustainable Paper and  
Wood Policy. 40 
HP brand paper has met the goal since  
2016, as it is derived entirely from certified  
and recycled sources. 41 In 2020, the amount  
of FSC-certified fiber in HP brand paper  
continued to exceed 55%, by weight.  
Paper and Wood Policy 39 
PROGRESS THROUGH 2020 
As of December 2020, achieved   
zero deforestation for 99% 
2020 ZERO DEFORESTATION GOAL 
Achieve zero deforestation associated   
with HP brand paper and paper-based   
product packaging by 2020 38  
of HP brand paper and paper-based   
product packaging, with the remaining   
1% assessed to ensure reported   
fiber usage meets HP s Sustainable   
Ppaper-based 
For paper-based product packaging, this was  
the culmination of five years of work to  
enhance our procurement processes and  
collaborate with more than 100 suppliers to  
drive progress. We have implemented a  
conformance assurance program to manage  
corrective actions and maintain this  
performance in the future. 
Building on this progress, by 2030 we will  
scale up investment in forest restoration,  
protection, and other initiatives to counteract  
   Packaging for commercial printing, industrial graphics, and  3D printing products, or documentation for any products,  are not included.  
92  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
tonnes HP paper impacts, 2020 
3,100,000    Paper use in  HP printers  
213,300 HP printer and copier paper sold 
2030 COUNTERACT   
DEFORESTATION GOAL 
Counteract deforestation for non-HP paper used  
in our products and print services by 2030 
HP paper impacts, 2020 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
140,100   Paper-based packaging   use for HP products  
non-ertifed 
deforestation for non-HP paper used in HP  
products and print services. 
the few companies in the world to achieve  
a zero deforestation goal for the sourcing  
of its paper and packaging and the only  
technology company to set a goal to address  
deforestation that goes beyond its own fiber  
sourcing to include the use of its products  
and services. 
Counteracting deforestation in our   
supply chain is part of HP s Forest Positive  
Framework, which also includes NGO  
partnerships targeted to protect forests,  
improve responsible forest management,  
and help develop science-based targets   
in this area. 
29% Recycled  fiber 
HP brand paper and packaging   
1% Non-certified fiber 
fiber sourcing, 2020 
43 HP is one of  
70% Certified fiber 
Packaging innovation 
Our sustainable packaging strategy focuses  
on three areas, with the objective to  
enhance customer experience while driving  
progress toward a circular and net zero  
carbon economy: 
During the first half of 2020, we introduced  
a goal to eliminate 75% of single-use plastic  
packaging by 2025, compared to 2018. In  
2020, we reached a 19% reduction, from  
an average of 221 grams unit in 2018  
to 180 grams unit in 2020. Watch video.  
Also see progress against our 2020 zero  
deforestation goal. 
To address packaging at end-of-life, we offer  
take-back services, and regularly update  
the Recycle your HP packaging guide to  
help consumers avoid sending packaging  
materials to landfill. 
  Eliminate unnecessary packaging  
  Innovate packaging designs to use  
  Prioritize high recycled content and easily  
material, space, and hard-to-recycle  
materials such as plastic foam.  
materials with lower environmental  
impact, such as sustainable fiber and  
recycled plastics.  
recyclable materials that can readily  
circulate through the economy.  
Key initiatives in 2020  
Below is a selection of the many packaging  
innovation projects completed and  
underway at HP to advance the circular  
economy. In 2020, we completed more  
than 35 packaging innovation projects  
that reduced environmental impact. These  
projects avoided 3,487 tonnes of CO2e  
emissions. 
Eliminate  
HP is shifting away from plastic, foam, and  
other hard-to-recycle materials, which have  
been traditionally used in packaging for most  
personal systems and printing products.  
For example: 
  Personal systems: In 2020, we shipped  
24 million units of personal systems  
products in molded fiber packaging,  
eliminating 2,997 tonnes of hard-to- 
recycle expanded plastic foam. This  
included our first retail point of sale,  
Thin Client, consumer and commercial  
Eliminate 75% of single-use plastic   
packaging by 2025, compared to 2018 
PROGRESS IN 2020 19% 
reduction, from an average of 221 grams   
unit in 2018 to 180 grams unit in 2020 
We are improving the tooling design and  
fabrication process in the molded fiber  
industry with our newly introduced 3D  
printing technology. During 2020, we  
shipped 73,000 units of HP products with  
cushions made using this proprietary  
technology. Watch video about the HP  
Molded Fiber Advanced Tooling Solution. 
93  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
  Printing: By reducing the cushion density  
  Accessories: In 2020, we eliminated  
displays, desktop and notebook  
workstations, and commercial All-in-One  
products in fiber-based packaging.  
on the LaserJet M227 multifunction  
printer, we decreased plastic foam use  
by 15% and will eliminate more than  
26 tonnes of plastic yearly. In addition, we  
avoided more than 19 tonnes of plastic by  
eliminating PET coatings on our LaserJet  
printer cartons. We also launched the HP  
DeskJet 2700 in molded fiber cushioning,  
avoiding 19 tonnes of plastic foam  
packaging in 2020. 
plastic ties on keyboards and mice for  
desktop units. This change avoided the  
use of 25.5 million plastic ties, equal to  
2.8 tonnes of polyethylene plastic and  
3 tonnes of steel wire hard-to-recycle  
materials that may otherwise reach  
landfills or enter the environment. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
HP continues to meet enterprise customer  
demands for more sustainable packaging,  
including by shipping 217,000 desktop  
PCs and 22,000 notebooks in multi-unit  
bulk packs (in which several products  
share one package) during 2020, reducing  
packaging material use by 65 tonnes. This  
also decreases GHG emissions associated  
with packaging materials and product  
transportation and improves shipping  
density and inventory efficiency. Bulk  
packaging also reduces customer costs  
related to shipping, security in storage, and  
waste disposal. 
Circulate  
During 2020, we continued the rollout of  
easily recyclable, fiber-based packaging  
cushions for HP notebook and desktop PCs  
as well as commercial displays. We used  
7,643 tonnes of fiber-based packaging  
cushions, which typically contain 100%  
recycled content, to ship HP notebook,  
desktop, and display units in 2020. We plan  
to continue our transition from plastic foam  
to fiber in 2021.  
HP shipped more than 700,000 A3 toner  
supplies in fiber-based packaging in 2020.  
In 2021, we plan to transition more than  
6 million printers to fiber-based packaging. 
We also continued to use recycled material  
for pallets. In 2020, we used 49,900 pallets  
made from 2,500 tonnes of straw from  
China that would otherwise have been  
burned as agricultural waste. HP continued  
its recycled pallet program in North America,  
using 607,000 recycled pallets during 2020. 
Regenerate   natural systems 
A circular economy is regenerative by  
design and aims to decouple growth  
from the consumption of finite resources.  
However, to address the tremendous  
environmental challenges that we face, we  
must look beyond our value chain to actively  
strengthen the natural systems that support  
us all. This requires collaboration within and  
across industries, and between businesses,  
governments, NGOs, academics, and others.  
Tackling ocean plastics  
In 2016, HP launched an ambitious program  
in Haiti to help tackle the growing challenge  
of ocean-bound plastics. In partnership  
with the First Mile Coalition and our supplier  
partners, we have built a self-reliant ocean- 
bound plastic supply chain that contributes  
to the circular economy and provides income  
and education opportunities locally.  
HP invested  2 million in a new plastic  
washing line in Haiti that produces clean,  
high-quality recycled plastic for use in HP  
premium products, including Original HP  
Ink Cartridges and the company s most  
sustainable PC portfolio. Since October 2020,  
the washing line has been fully functioning,  
thanks to extensive collaboration with  
Lavergne (our plastics transformer), ECSSA  
(our local Haiti recycler), and STF Group (the  
manufacturer of the washing line). 
Due to the COVID-19 travel shutdowns,  
installing and launching this washing line  
required high-resolution video collaboration  
between experts and local laborers with  
experience in heavy equipment installation.  
The complete build of the washing line took  
about 10 weeks only three weeks longer  
than originally estimated including a delay  
due to Hurricane Laura. This project  
simplified our ocean-bound plastic supply  
chain in Haiti by eliminating a washing step  
off the island. This has increased the value of  
plastic collected on the island and the prices  
that collectors receive, and will add an  
estimated 1,000 more income opportunities  
for adults in Haiti on top of the 1,100 that  
have already been created. 
See examples of HP personal   systems, home and office printers,   and large format printers that   contain ocean-bound plastics. 
Since 2016, these efforts have diverted   
more than 1.7 million pounds (771 tonnes)   
of plastic materials more than 60 million  
bottles preventing this plastic from  
reaching waterways and oceans.  
In October 2018, HP joined NextWave  
Plastics, the collaborative and open-source  
initiative convening leading technology and  
consumer-focused companies to develop  
the first global network of ocean-bound  
plastic supply chains. The coalition has set a  
goal to divert a minimum of 25,000 tons of  
plastics the equivalent of 1.2 billion single- 
use plastic water bottles from entering  
the ocean by the end of 2025. In 2020,  
NextWave companies diverted 1,356 tonnes  
of ocean plastics, with HP leading the way. 
94  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Supporting the UN Decade of Ocean Science 
The UN Decade of Ocean Science began in 2021. These will be pivotal years for  
ocean conservation, and creativity is vital for garnering public support. In 2020,  
we worked with The Ocean Agency, a nonprofit focused on engaging the design  
community through campaigns and competitions. We coordinated with the  
organization s Glowing Glowing Gone campaign, which draws attention to coral   
reef loss and works to inspire policy and funding to support reef preservation.  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
HP has also teamed up with the NGO Work  
to provide new learning centers for children  
on-site as their parents work on recycling  
efforts. The learning centers are equipped  
with the latest technology, including HP  
laptops and printers using cartridges from  
locally collected plastics. 
In 2020, HP was announced as a founding  
member of the Ocean Plastics Leadership  
Network, a membership community dedicated  
to addressing ocean plastic pollution. 
During the year, HP also joined Project STOP,  
which collaborates with governments and  
communities in Southeast Asia to create  
effective waste management systems that  
eliminate plastics leakage into the ocean and  
provides replicable solutions. As a technical  
partner, we are supporting the organization s  
work to create a circular waste management  
system in East Java, Indonesia. The Project  
STOP materials recovery centers in the  
province will collect, manage, and recycle  
plastic waste while providing income- 
generation opportunities, including in the  
informal waste sector.  
HP Sustainable Forests  Collaborative 
Nearly 50% of global forests are under  
threat from deforestation and forest  
degradation. According to Global Forest  
Watch, the tropics lost more than 29 million  
acres of tree cover in 2019 alone, equivalent  
to nearly 30 soccer fields  worth of trees  
every minute. We are dedicated to help  
address this pressing issue. We have met our  
zero deforestation goal for HP brand paper  
since 2016 and for paper-based product  
packaging since 2020. 
In November 2019, we launched the  
HP Sustainable Forests Collaborative,  
supporting our strategy to create a forest  
positive future for printing.  
The Collaborative s objectives are to:  
In fall 2019, HP pledged  11 million to  
support WWF s efforts to restore part of  
Brazil s threatened Atlantic Forest and  
improve the management of state-owned  
and private forest plantations in China to  
ultimately restore, protect, and transition  
to responsible management 200,000 acres  
of forests. Through this collaboration, we  
are also contributing to the development of  
science-based targets for forests designed  
  Maintain HP s long-standing commitment  
  Support the development of science- 
  Protect and restore forests, and improve  
  Collaborate across HP and with our  
  Drive the development of innovative  
to sustainable fiber sourcing through  
supply chain management.  
based targets for forests, which includes  
estimating carbon and nature co-benefits  
of forest restoration and improved  
forest management. 
responsible forest management practices. 
industry, partners, and customers, using  
collective influence to inspire forest  
positive action. 
printing technologies that reduce paper  
waste and improve the efficiency of paper  
consumption.  
to provide guidance on the quantity and  
quality of forests needed in key regions to  
protect the ecosystems  resilience. 
In 2020, the first year of the project,  
progress included: 
We have identified more than 10,000 acres  
of land in Brazil and China for restoration and  
transition to responsible management. 
95  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
  Brazil (Atlantic Forest): We helped  
  China: We are working with the National  
establish local project governance  
that includes collaboration with local  
authorities, grassroots environmental  
groups, rural landowners, and other NGOs.  
Our support ranges from the creation  
of landscape intelligence tools, to the  
development of restoration plans, to  
the prioritization of restoration efforts  
to strengthen biodiversity conservation  
and water provisioning. Restoration  
implementation will begin in 2021. 
Forests and Grasslands Administration  
and also with the Chinese Academy of  
Forestry to ensure the improved forest  
management practices align with needs  
specific to China. A key focus during the  
year was identifying forestlands for  
transition to improved management  
and overcoming technical barriers to  
implementing FSC -China certification.  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
The HP Sustainable Forests Collaborative is  
driving progress toward our ambition for HP  
Consumer Printing worldwide to be forest  
positive by 2025. 
In 2020, Arbor Day Foundation,  Chenming Paper, Domtar, New Leaf  Paper, and International Paper joined the  HP Sustainable Forests Collaborative to  accelerate efforts on forest restoration.  
Additional activities during 2020 included:  
  In April, we pledged to plant one tree  
  Also with ADF, we began planting a tree  
for every printer sold during the month,  
in partnership with the Arbor Day  
Foundation (ADF). HP contributed to  
wildfire reforestation and watershed  
management in Alabama, California,  
Florida, Michigan, and the Mississippi River  
Valley in the United States.  
for each of HP s 55,000 employees, who  
voted to have them planted in Brazil,  
Ireland, Indonesia, and the United States.  
This effort is continuing in 2021. 
Simple Action digital marketplace that helps  
HP is the founding sponsor of the FSC One  
consumers in North America understand  
why FSC matters, and find products to buy  
if they want to be part of the solution for  
forests. FSC certification is the most rigorous  
standard available in the marketplace,  
ensuring that critical forest ecosystems  
and the wildlife and workers that depend  
upon them are protected. 
  We joined the World Economic Forum  
  In Brazil, we also continued to support  
1t.org initiative a global movement to  
conserve, restore, and grow 1 trillion trees  
by 2030 and reported 1 million trees  
planted through these initiatives during  
2020 (in addition to our projects in Brazil  
and China outlined above).  
Conservation International initiatives in  
the Amazon, focused on local farming  
communities and land conservation. 
Product responsibility 
We are committed to the safety, security,  
and privacy of our customers when they use  
HP products. The company maintains high  
standards in these areas and continues to  
innovate across our portfolio.  
Product safety 
HP is committed to providing products that  
are safe for their intended use and that  
comply with the applicable government  
regulations of the countries where we  
market those products. All HP branded  
electrical products undergo evaluations and  
testing to ensure that they meet HP safety  
standards. This is consistent with HP s Safe  
  Legal Product requirements, which outline  
relevant internal as well as international  
safety standard requirements (e.g., the new  
Safety Standard UL EN IEC 62368-1). We  
work to identify opportunities for ongoing  
improvement in this area. 
We share extensive product safety  
information online to support customers   
informed purchasing decisions. View  
Declarations of Conformity for European  
96  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Union requirements. Contact HP product  
declarations for other countries.  
compliance customer support regarding  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
Safety Data Sheets are available for HP  
formulated products, including inks, toners,  
and 3D printing materials and fusing and  
detailing agents. The information includes  
physical, chemical, and toxicological  
properties, regulatory details, and  
recommendations for safe handling. Many  
HP products also qualify for eco-labels and  
other certifications that cover health and  
safety as well as environmental aspects. 
   Feb 2021 WKI Blue Angel Indoor Air Quality study of 15 non-HP cartridge brands purchased in APJ region, commissioned by HP. See HP.com go IAQnonhpAPJ2021  Nov 2019 WKI Blue Angel Indoor  
    IEEE Standard for Environmental Assessment of Imaging Equipment (IEEE Std 1680.2-2012), Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT), Green Electronics Council of the  
Total volatile  organic  compounds  % above or  below the  Blue Angel limit 
International Sustainability Development Foundation (ISDF) or earlier versions applicable when printing system launched. 
Air Quality study of 26 non-HP cartridge brands purchased in EMEA, NA and LA regions, commissioned by HP. See HP.com go IAQnonhpWKI2019. 
94% of non-HP toner cartridges tested failed indoor air quality tests  
Home and office printing  
Indoor air quality  
HP voluntarily designs and tests its printing  
systems 1 to prevent emissions that exceed  
eco-label guidelines and document that its  
printing systems are compliant with Blue  
Angel and EPEAT  indoor air quality (IAQ)  
criteria. Original HP Toner and Ink Cartridges  
are designed and tested with health in mind.  
Non-HP brands tested 
In 2019 and 2021, HP commissioned  
Fraunhofer Institute WKI to perform studies  
that tested the emission rates of volatile  
organic compounds, ozone, dust, benzene,  
styrene, and ultrafine particles of different  
toner cartridge brands used in popular HP  
laser printers. The studies found that 94%  
of imitation toner cartridges and 100% of  
remanufactured toner cartridges tested  
failed to meet Blue Angel total volatile  
organic compound (TVOC) limits (see graph). 2  
Non-HP toner cartridges 
  Emitted up to 198% over  
  HP printers used with  most non-HP cartridges  would not meet the IAQ  requirements of Blue  Angel or EPEAT   
the Blue Angel limit for  TVOCs  
Large format printing  
For our textile printing solutions, which  
include HP Stitch printers, HP conducts a  
hazard and regulatory assessment for each  
substance in the ink formulation to determine  
its suitability for the application. We go  
further on third-party safety certification  
by obtaining the Eco Passport by Oeko-Tex,  
an independent certification for chemicals  
and colorants used in the manufacturing  
of textiles, which supports customers who  
wish to obtain the Oeko-Tex STANDARD 100  
certification for their textile products. 
Some HP inks are assessed to provide  
information about suitability for printing  
applications involving toys. 
specific HP inks can be made available to  
customers upon request. Testing methods  
focus on problematic colorants, heavy  
metals, phthalates, Bisphenol A (BPA), and  
or amines (including specific endpoints  
such as heavy metals and primary aromatic  
amines (PAA)). For these assessments, we  
typically consider general chemical regulatory  
compliance criteria and material-specific  
requirements for ink formulations, with an  
emphasis on standards relating to paper and  
printing on books and puzzles. 
See Product certifications and  
other information. 
97  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
3 Test results for  
Industrial graphics 
Food contact material  compliance  
We incorporate relevant food contact material  
(FCM) regulations, industry guidance, and  
brand requirements into our formulation  
qualification process to support a variety of  
food packaging printing solutions offered  
by our Indigo, PageWide Industrial, and  
Specialty Printing Systems technologies.  
Whenever possible, HP strives to formulate  
with chemicals previously evaluated and  
deemed suitable for use in food packaging  
printing applications. 
The fundamental elements of our FCM  
compliance approach includes: 
  Robust chemical assessment processes  
  Determination of migration potential for  
  Adherence to quality system  
to determine compliance status of all  
intentionally and non-intentionally added  
substances (IAS and NIAS) 
individual chemicals using 100% migration  
calculation methodology or conducting  
migration and organoleptic testing based  
on HP s Representative Use Case (RUC) 
requirements, including Good  
Manufacturing Practices (GMP) 
Recognizing that we are just one part of the  
packaging supply chain, we are committed  
to supporting transparent communication  
of compliance-related information and  
additional testing by our customers to  
enable the use of HP formulations in printing  
applications involving food packaging and  
other sensitive applications. 
3D printing 
For our 3D printing solutions, we conduct a  
hazard and regulatory assessment for each  
substance in the fusing and detailing agent  
formulations to determine suitability for  
applications such as toys. To ensure we meet  
customers  sustainability requirements, we  
also review formulations against restricted  
substances lists as required by individual  
customers. HP 3D printing materials HP PA  
11, HP PA 12, HP PA 12 GB, HP CB PA 12, HP  
PP enabled by BASF, and HP TPA enabled by  
Evonik, as well as the corresponding HP 3D  
fusing and detailing agents, have been tested  
for problematic heavy metals, phthalates,  
BPA, and migration of certain components. 
Product security   and privacy 
Cybersecurity is an increasing concern for  
our customers worldwide. We continually  
work to enhance HP products, solutions, and  
services to offer industry-leading security  
and resiliency capabilities, and seek to  
address and anticipate an ever-evolving  
cyber-threat landscape.  
HP follows security-by-design and  
privacy-by-design principles, including  
Zero Trust principles, in the development  
of our products, from design through  
implementation, renewal, and recycling.   
We build protection, detection, and recovery  
capabilities into the devices, not just in  
software, providing customers separate,  
auditable security mechanisms to help  
manage and recover from security risks.  
We design business PCs and printers  
with future threats in mind, with built-in  
hardware-enforced security and resiliency  
capabilities that integrate seamlessly with an  
organization s broader infrastructure. Aiming  
to deliver the most secure devices, and the  
services and solutions to help our customers  
use endpoints infrastructure safely and  
confidently, is the foundation of our strategy.  
HP s leadership team oversees our portfolio- 
wide approach to security and provides the  
resources needed to support HP s continued  
leadership. Our Security Advisory Board,  
consisting of several HP leaders as well as  
external advisors with broad backgrounds  
in offensive and defensive security, advises  
us on the ever-changing threat landscape,  
augmenting our work in HP R D and HP Labs  
research activities.  
We continually conduct threat analysis on  
emerging attack vectors, which in turn helps  
guide product security development efforts.  
We employ cybersecurity specialists and  
conduct cybersecurity architecture reviews,  
penetration testing, code reviews, and  
automated code scanning using industry- 
leading tools. When issues arise, we take  
appropriate actions to remediate reported  
security vulnerabilities.  
In 2018, we adopted the industry best  
practice Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure  
approach, which describes how we work  
with partners, industry, and the security  
community to address vulnerabilities. When  
notified about a suspected vulnerability, we  
investigate thoroughly and, if confirmed,  
work with the submitter on remediation and  
a coordinated public release of information.  
The HP supply chain security group works to  
ensure that our products can resist attacks  
throughout the supply chain life cycle, from  
component sourcing and manufacturing  
to transportation, service, and take-back.  
Our HP Product Cybersecurity Standard for  
Suppliers, enforced through periodic audits,  
contractually holds relevant suppliers to  
requirements that mitigate the risks of  
counterfeits, malware, and tampering. 
Personal systems  
HP produces the world s most secure and  
manageable PCs and workstations. 
commercial PCs with HP Sure Start meet and  
98  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
hardware-enforced endpoint application  
isolation and containment solution, 
Sanitization Services, and Sustainable  
Impact in our personal systems. 
HP offers the world s most secure printers, 
and our FutureSmart printers meet and  
exceed the NIST Platform Firmware  
Resiliency Guidelines. HP FutureSmart  
exceed the National Institute of Standards  
and Technology s (NIST) Platform Firmware  
Resiliency Guidelines.  
The HP Endpoint Security Controller is our  
foundation and has been certified by a  
third-party lab. It establishes a Hardware  
Root of Trust and is physically isolated from  
the machine s CPU and operating system,  
providing resiliency to the PC.  
HP ProSecurity Service is the world s  
most advanced endpoint security service. 
The managed service helps small and  
medium-sized businesses defend against  
cyberattacks without changing user behavior  
or increasing IT workload.  
HP Sure Click Enterprise, powered by  
protecting enterprise endpoints from  
even the most sophisticated attackers  
while providing detailed, real-time threat  
intelligence to security teams.  
Learn more about security solutions, HP  
6 is the world s most advanced  
printers automatically self-heal and  
recover from attacks and provide the  
following features: 
Through our bug bounty program, we offer  
rewards for highly trained, geographically  
diverse ethical hackers who expose flaws  
in our print technology. The program  
leverages deep, hard-to-find technical skills  
to find obscure, previously unidentified  
vulnerabilities in our devices and ink  
toner cartridges before they are released  
to market. 
HP Security Manager is the industry s  
only comprehensive policy-based printer  
security compliance tool that assesses and  
remediates HP printer fleets.  
HP Print Security Services combines  
credentialed security experts and trained  
print specialists to assess customers   
printing environments, address compliance  
requirements, develop and implement  
plans, provide ongoing management, and  
proactively identify gaps in defenses.  
Learn more about security solutions and  
Sustainable Impact in our printers. 
  HP Sure Start keeps the BIOS safe 
  Whitelisting keeps the firmware safe 
  Run-time intrusion detection keeps   
  HP Connection Inspector monitors  
the memory safe 
network connections 
Social impact  
HP s commitment to creating positive,  
lasting change for people and communities  
around the world extends to how we design  
and deploy products, solutions, and services  
to meet the unique business needs of   
key verticals and industries. Our portfolio  
of education products, partnerships, and  
programs are helping to enable better  
learning outcomes for millions of people  
worldwide. HP s purpose-built healthcare  
portfolio is designed with clinicians in mind  
to streamline patient care, optimize clinical  
workflows, and deliver customized solutions.  
A strong focus on inclusive design helps to  
ensure that everyone can access the benefits  
of our technology. 
Global education  programs 
Education is a fundamental human right and  
a foundation to sustainable development,  
and we know that technology can be a  
great equalizer by bringing digital learning  
to people where they live. This is why HP is  
pursuing an ambitious goal to enable better  
learning outcomes for 100 million people  
Inclusive, quality education is even more  
important in a rapidly changing world   
of work that calls for flexibility, adaptability,  
intercultural connection, 24 7 collaboration,  
and lifelong learning. For people everywhere,  
and especially underserved groups, equitable  
access to opportunity and outcome-based  
learning experiences are key to building skills  
for work and participation in society. 
99  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
from HP s education programs and solutions   
that advance quality learning and digital   
literacy, and enable better learning outcomes,  
people by 2030 
LEARNING AND DIGITAL LITERACY GOAL 
Enable better learning outcomes for   
100 million people by 2025, since the   
beginning of 2015  
PROGRESS THROUGH 2020 
Nearly 50.3 million 
students and adult learners have benefited   
since the beginning of 2015 (including nearly   
20.8 million in 2020) 
2030 DIGITAL EQUITY GOAL 
Accelerate digital equity for 150 million   
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
Equitable access   and opportunity 
HP s programs, initiatives, and partnerships  
are helping to extend equitable access to  
high-quality education to underserved  
populations, minorities, and regions across  
the world. 
Responding to COVID-19 
With the sudden shift to at-home learning  
in the wake of the pandemic, technology  
and digital tools have become even more  
crucial for millions of students worldwide.  
Pre-COVID-19, roughly 260 million children  
were not in school. 1 When COVID-19 caused  
schools to close, impacting 1.5 billion  
students, nearly a third more than  
460 million students were not able to  
access remote learning. 2 We took urgent  
action to help equip teachers and bridge  
the digital divide, bringing remote learning  
to many students globally through a  
combination of print and digital content.  
  HP Turn to Learn (United States, Canada,  
solution provided more than 220,000  
Turn to Learn and HP LIFE learning  
packets for underserved students. 
Haiti, India): A new program to deliver  
printed educational content curated from  
leading scientific, publishing, and media  
companies to support teachers and  
underserved students in the face of the  
COVID-19 pandemic. The HP Piazza-led  
learning. Its COVID-19 response included:  
Working for racial equality 
HP is committed to driving racial equity  
within our company and externally and we  
have created a Racial Equality and Social  
Justice Task Force to support measurable  
sustainable impact. In the United States  
in 2020, we expanded our long-standing  
partnership with Historically Black Colleges  
and Universities (HBCUs) and held the fourth  
annual HBCU Business Challenge virtually.  
For further detail on HP s initiatives, see  
Diversity, equity, and inclusion.  
The HP Foundation also expanded its  
programs to support continued access to  
  HP Printables (Worldwide): We provided  
  HP Refresh (Worldwide): Our program to  
  Increased outreach to bring the  
  Driving new educational partnerships in  
hundreds of free weekly printable resources  
to support remote learning, reaching over  
4.6 million families worldwide. 
help communities locally crowdsource  
computer donations for those in need.  
Foundation s free HP LIFE courses to  
learners around the world. 
the Europe, Middle East, and Africa, and  
Asia Pacific and Japan regions. 
Driving gender equality  
More than 130 million girls around the  
world lack access to education, and women  
account for two-thirds of the 750 million  
adults without basic literacy skills. Through  
our partnership with Girl Rising, announced  
in 2019, we aim to equip up to 10 million  
students and teachers with new curriculum  
and technology solutions over three years  
and bring inclusive content and curriculum  
to classrooms and educators around the  
world. The multi-year partnership extends to  
communities in the United States, India, and  
Nigeria. In 2020, we reached approximately  
5 million people through this program. Of  
that total, nearly 4.7 million was through a  
partnership Girl Rising has in India with the  
NGO Slam Out Loud, which uses the arts to  
build skills such as communication, critical  
thinking, and empathy in children from  
disadvantaged communities.  
HP is also collaborating with UN Women to  
advance education, entrepreneurship, and  
digital learning for women and girls in five  
priority countries: Senegal, South Africa,  
Nigeria, Democratic Republic of the Congo,  
and Morocco. In Mexico, we have partnered  
with UN Women and the BHP Foundation to  
create three HP LIFE Centers as part of UN  
Women s Second Chance Education program,  
which seeks to provide women with needed  
skills for small business development and  
lifelong learning. 
Reaching refugees and   displaced populations  
With or without the COVID-19 pandemic,  
education is often out of reach for the most  
vulnerable in society. HP is committed  
to resuming programs when it is safe to  
do so, by continuing our work with the  
United Nations High Commissioner for  
Refugees (UNHCR) and other partners to  
enable refugees and displaced populations  
to learn in-demand skills to enhance  
employment opportunities. 
Reaching learners in India 
HP is bringing self-contained, Internet- 
enabled, solar-powered mobile learning  
labs to rural areas of India. The HP World  
on Wheels (WOW) program, in collaboration  
with the Government of India s Digital  
India Initiative and other private sector  
partners, supports digital literacy, education,  
entrepreneurship, and citizen services.  
The initiative targets people in rural and  
semi-rural areas of the country, including  
low-income women, men, and children. Each  
20-seat WOW vehicle is equipped with HP  
computing and printing technology, as well  
as software and e-learning tools. In 2020, 43  
WOW mobile learning labs directly benefited  
approximately 105,000 people in villages  
throughout the country. 
100  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
Outcome-based   learning experiences 
HP s education programs build on the  
strength of our innovation to deliver cutting- 
edge solutions that support remote learning  
and help people thrive in a rapidly evolving  
digital world. 
Classroom of the Future  
In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic,  
K-12 teachers now must be able to address  
a broad range of scenarios. Flexibility is  
needed to rapidly switch between teaching  
at school or from home, and from in-person  
teaching to online. We launched our HP  
Online Teaching Assistant program to  
empower teachers with remote teaching  
skills and provide inspiring content (in  
English and Spanish). The program has  
supported more than 132,000 teachers and  
3.6 million students.  
HP has continued to focus on inclusive access  
to technologies, tools, and materials. In 2020,  
HP Learning Studios brought state-of-the art  
educational technology into more than 100  
schools across North America, Europe, the  
Middle East, Australia, and New Zealand. We  
also focus on boosting teachers  vital  
contributions. Every Windows 10-based HP  
Education Edition PC comes preloaded with  
HP Classroom Manager. Through one  
console, teachers can cultivate a collaborative  
learning environment, monitor student  
activities, and evaluate progress in real time.  
With co-molded industrial rubber, pick-proof  
keys, and other rugged features, these PCs  
are built to last in the classroom and tested  
in a laboratory environment that simulates a  
school setting. 
HP shipped approximately 10 million   PCs to schools in 2020. 
Campus of the Future 
HP s Campus of the Future framework  
creates vibrant, secure environments  
for teaching, learning, research, and  
collaboration. As part of this initiative, HP  
is working with more than 20 elite colleges  
and universities, providing cutting-edge  
technologies alongside financial and  
technical support. These collaborations  
are exploring various types and uses of  
3D printing (additive manufacturing),  
virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality  
(AR) to identify the technologies with the  
greatest potential for teaching, learning,  
and research. We have also expanded the  
focus to include data science and machine  
learning. For example: 
  Yale University and HP have collaborated  
since 2016 on a series of interdisciplinary  
investigations exploring applied uses of  
3D print scan, artificial intelligence (AI),  
Learn more in the EDUCAUSE report Machine  
Learning s Growing Role in Research. 
  At Carnegie Mellon University, researchers  
  At Stanford University, researchers are  
and VR AR. Examples include cell-based  
3D bioprints that repair intestinal injuries,  
machine learning models trained on  
Alan Turing writings to create opera,  
and a novel control interface to enable  
wheelchair-bound individuals better  
navigation through VR experiences.  
Learn more. 
are using HP Z8 workstations to explore  
new approaches and uses of machine  
learning. This cutting-edge work includes  
correcting models that were corrupted   
by bad input data, automating stages   
of the pipeline, improving experiment  
management, eliminating cloud   
workflow issues, and integrating hybrid  
interdisciplinary programs. 
using a three-stage process, involving an  
HP Z8 workstation, to minimize resource  
costs and maximize the theories and  
ideas they can test as they develop new  
machine learning methods. Working in  
teams, the researchers are tackling a  
range of machine learning problems and  
using advanced technology to find the  
next improvement, the next model, and  
the next solution.  
Education as a foundation for  an inclusive Fourth Industrial  Revolution  
The Fourth Industrial Revolution is  
a profound, technology-enabled  
transformation that is reinventing how  
goods are designed, created, and delivered.  
However, the Revolution also presents  
an educational challenge: current and  
future generations will need support to  
successfully transition, especially those  
workers displaced by automation.  
At HP, we are working with partners to  
develop 3D printing engineering curriculum  
and fostering collaboration with governments  
to address skills of the future. For example,  
the HP-NTU Digital Manufacturing Corporate  
Lab in Singapore, founded with the National  
Research Foundation Singapore, is an  
innovative public-private partnership that  
supports the university s efforts to  
democratize digital manufacturing and  
accelerate technology adoption. The  
advanced technologies and automation  
solutions developed jointly are geared  
toward efficiency, productivity, and  
sustainable development, on a global scale.  
During 2020, we created a new skills  
development program for 3D printing and  
digital design, composed of six courses. The  
Lab s other focus areas include AI, machine  
learning, and cybersecurity. 
101  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
We also offer design for additive  
manufacturing training and workshops for  
professionals, and published the HP Multi  
Jet Fusion Engineering Handbook to help  
designers create parts for production using  
HP 3D printing technologies. 
Building skills at the local level 
  HP LIFE in Brazil: Our HP LIFE program,  
  HP Innovation   Digital Education  
  Moscow HP Learning Studio: Our team  
which offers opportunities to aspiring  
entrepreneurs, has seen major growth in  
2020. In Brazil, 7,000 learners joined the  
platform in July alone demonstrating a  
successful outreach that included offering  
HP LIFE as a free resource to small  
businesses in the country. 
Academy (IDEA): Launched in September  
2020, IDEA is a network of innovative  
schoolteachers who are demonstrating  
powerful teaching and learning with  
and through technology. At the Phase  
1 launch, we enrolled 331 teachers  
(representing public and private schools)  
from UAE and Nigeria into the one-year  
HP IDEA Fellows program. 
helped a Moscow school adopt leading  
education technology solutions. As  
well as new laptops, the school is now  
equipped with VR technology for teaching  
subjects including biology and physics,  
and the walls were designed using HP  
Latex technology.  
HP National Education  Technology Assessment (NETA)  
The HP NETA program supports  
policymakers and governments to create  
education technology programs that  
teach skills employers need. For example,  
  Digital Schools Awards: An HP-led  
  Young Technopreneur Challenge 2020:  
initiative to cultivate, encourage, and  
recognize use of technology that supports  
improvements in teaching, learning, and  
assessment, as well as blended learning  
that helps teachers respond to COVID-19.  
An estimated 940,000 students have  
benefited since 2014, including more  
than 62,000 in 2020. By the end of 2020,  
52% of primary and secondary schools  
in Ireland, Northern Ireland, and Scotland  
were registered, and in November  
2020 a pilot expanded the program to  
Lithuania, Serbia, and Slovenia, reaching  
80 additional post-primary schools and  
over 54,000 students. Watch the Digital  
Schools Awards 2020.  
In Singapore, more than 100 students  
participated in a competition to develop  
ideas that help address one of the UN  
Sustainable Development Goals. The  
students, aged 14 15 and in 36 teams  
from eight secondary schools, used  
coding skills to develop a web portal  
to present their ideas. Boot camps on  
design thinking, STEM applications, and  
presentation and pitching skills enhanced  
the learning experience. 
in partnership with Idaho Business for  
Education, our extensive study in Idaho,  
United States, showed the intrinsic links  
between education and economic growth.  
Based on the study s recommendations,  
mental health was added to the Idaho  
education budget passed by the state  
legislation during 2020. 
Skills for work and   society of the future 
For businesses to remain competitive and  
sustain a pipeline of future employees and  
customers, we must help to address the  
skills gap for work of the future. HP and the  
HP Foundation provide programs to enable  
people to build skills that build economies.  
HP Innovation Garage 
In 2020, in collaboration with Intel, we  
launched the first HP Innovation Garage, the  
largest technology start-up campus in the  
Middle East and North Africa region. Based at  
the Dubai Technology Entrepreneur Campus  
(DTEC), the lab will help young people  
develop transferable skills in technology,  
design, and prototyping, and explore future  
career paths through three different learning  
zones: Entrepreneur, VR, and STEAM and  
Robotics. 33,000 educators, students, and  
other interested customers attended virtual  
workshops and webinars hosted by the HP  
Innovation Garage in the first four months.  
See the 360 Virtual Tour. 
HP Foundation programs 
We also help build future skills  
through initiatives funded by the HP  
Foundation, including: 
For more detail on HP Foundation   
education programs, see Community giving  
and volunteerism. 
Discover more about HP technologies  to advance learning. 
102  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
  HP LIFE (Learning Initiative for  
  BeChangeMaker: A program in  
  Mashrou3i: A joint project by UNIDO, the  
Entrepreneurs): Free business and 21st- 
century skills training in seven languages  
to help learners find formal employment  
or start their own business, with partners  
such as the UN Industrial Development  
Organization (UNIDO). 
partnership with WorldSkills that delivers  
online training projects to help young  
people explore social entrepreneurship. 
United States Agency for International  
Development (USAID), the Italian Agency  
for Development Cooperation (AICS),  
and the HP Foundation to foster youth  
entrepreneurship and enterprise  
development in Tunisia. The partnership  
has created thousands of jobs since 2013. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
Healthcare 
From our healthcare portfolio of PC  
and printing solutions to personalized  
3D-printed prosthetics, HP innovations  
focus on meeting specific challenges in the  
sector. Our solutions are designed to help  
clinicians improve patient experiences,  
boost efficiency, and increase access for  
underserved populations. In 2020, HP  
products and solutions helped mitigate the  
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including  
through sanitizable PCs and keyboards,  
bioprinters supporting vaccine research, and  
3D printers rapidly producing critical supplies  
such as face shields and respirator parts. 
Personal systems 
HP recognizes that sanitizable technology  
solutions are no longer a healthcare-specific  
concern but are also increasingly important  
in retail, hospitality, manufacturing, and  
other sectors. In a recent HP study, 51%  
of IT decision-makers reported they are  
prioritizing technology that can be sanitized  
and wiped down, and 71% of IT staff perceive  
computers and keyboards to be the most  
prone devices to carrying infection. 
We help customers keep high-touch,  
collaborative, and public-facing technology  
clean and support employee wellbeing  
by offering a broad range of sanitizable  
devices. From Elite PCs and desktops, to Z  
by HP and displays and select accessories,  
these devices can be wiped down with many  
common disinfectant wipes. 
our HP EliteOne 800 G5 All-in-One and  
HP HC241 and HC241p monitors support  
easy, repeatable sanitization 
germicidal wipes on the entire device. 
Home and   office printing 
HP launched new print solutions for the  
healthcare industry in 2020. Based on deep  
customer insights and co-developed with  
healthcare providers, associations, and  
partners, HP Healthcare Print Solutions  
addresses pressing issues facing the  
healthcare industry, including patient  
wellbeing and safety, care coordination,  
mobility, privacy, and security.  
The portfolio offers Basic Print Cloud  
Services delivered through HP Print Security  
Advisory Services and HP Security Manager, 
providing patient data protection to all  
HP devices, with the added protection of  
PrintSecure on Zebra wristband printers.  
Learn more. 
Specialty Print    Technology Solutions 
HP s Specialty Print   Technology Solutions  
play an important role in the healthcare  
industry. Every day, pharmaceutical  
companies, drug manufacturers, hospitals,  
medical laboratories, and pharmacies need  
5 For example,  
6 with select  
a wide variety of high-quality variable data  
coding and marking print solutions and color  
labels. HP Thermal Inkjet systems enable  
printing of human- and machine-readable  
codes and marks to be printed directly on  
packages, helping to eliminate stock label  
waste and enhancing product identification  
and security. For example, personalized  
color-printed labels for medicine bottles  
give patients more information, such as a  
photograph of the medicine. In 2020, our  
solutions enabled printing of product code  
information on N-95 masks used to combat  
the spread of COVID-19.  
The HP D300e Digital Dispenser, a bioprinter  
platform, accelerates drug research and  
other laboratory applications by automating  
serial dilutions. This family of products  
enables researchers to dispense or print  
very small picoliter quantities of fluid needed  
for research, which saves time and reduces  
plastic waste associated with manual  
pipetting methods.  
In 2020, we supported efforts to combat  
COVID-19 by donating D300e printers,  
associated supply cassettes, and training to  
vaccine research laboratories in the United  
States and Europe. HP also worked with our  
global network of print service providers to  
use HP printing solutions to help medical  
teams, business, and the public adapt to life  
during the pandemic. 
3D printing 
In 2020, we mobilized our 3D printing  
technology and production capacity to  
quickly create medical parts and solutions  
to mitigate the impact of COVID-19. We  
developed prototypes within days, and  
delivered items such as face masks, nasal  
swabs, hands-free door openers, and  
respirator parts. See 3D printing. 
Advances in 3D printing allow transformative  
approaches to healthcare and medical  
devices. HP technology is being used to  
create anatomical models to help plan  
surgical procedures, highly customized  
dental aligner molds, tailored orthotics and  
prosthetics, and a wide range of medical  
equipment. Learn more, and watch how  
HP 3D printing technology is being used by  
A-Dec for dental equipment production,   
and Crispin Orthotics and Invent Medical to  
create customized orthotics. 
Microfluidics and cancer  detection  
HP has decades of experience in  
manipulating fluids at the microscopic  
level, which we are applying to research  
on the surveillance of cancers in patients  
post chemotherapy to determine if a  
cancer returns. A team in our Microfluidics  
103  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
and Systems Technology Lab is working  
to develop a new method for isolating  
rare cancer cells. This research deploys a  
combination of hydrodynamic and electric  
fields to separate cells based on electrical  
properties. This technology has the potential  
to support personalized therapy and  
detection of post-treatment cancer cells  
through liquid biopsies, which can accurately  
identify tumor cells in blood samples instead  
of tissue removed through invasive biopsies. 
Learn more. 
Inclusive design 
Accessibility is about making things that are  
usable by everyone including the diverse  
community of people with disabilities.  
One in seven people in the world has a  
disability. Removing barriers that otherwise  
prohibit them from engaging as dignified,  
independent, equal, and active members  
of our communities is critical for bridging  
the digital divide. We are committed to  
ensuring that the benefits of our innovative  
technology empower people worldwide.  
In 2020, HP took a leadership role in the IT  
industry and publicly released its Hardware  
Accessibility Testing Guide. This describes in  
detail how we test products for accessibility  
and communicate the results in our  
conformance reports. We hope that sharing  
this information transparently will contribute  
to a broader industry conversation about  
best testing practices and lead to more  
accessible products. 
We welcome new opportunities to  
incorporate feedback from the global  
disability community into our accessibility  
program. For example, during the COVID-19  
pandemic, HP launched a new inclusive  
education partnership with Governor  
Morehead School in Raleigh, North Carolina,  
to connect students with visual disabilities  
with our innovative technology through  
a new HP Career and Technical Education  
Learning Lab. This collaboration will provide  
HP user feedback and examples of how  
we can design more inclusive products for  
students, whether learning remotely or in  
the classroom. 
HP regularly sponsors, attends, and speaks  
at accessibility-related conferences and  
government forums. We are a recognized  
voice and advocate in a range of industry  
and government efforts to advance  
worldwide standards and policies that  
improve the accessibility of information  
and technology for everyone. These include  
current standards (such as Web Content  
Accessibility Guidelines, U.S. Revised Section  
508, and the EU EN 301 54) and emerging  
ones (such as the European Accessibility Act  
and the Canadian Accessibility Act). In 2020,  
approximately  7 billion of HP sales was  
enabled by eco labels, accessibility, human  
rights, and supply chain responsibility. 
This work complements our efforts to  
consider inclusive design early in product  
development and inspire people with  
elegant, easy-to-use products. For  
example, we incorporate user-friendly  
voice technology in web-enabled consumer  
printers such as HP Tango, and we offer  
the HP Accessibility Assistant our secure  
voice and screen reader accessory in a  
wide range of office printers. In our personal  
systems portfolio, we design PCs to be  
compatible with the assistive technology in  
popular operating systems. 
Visit the HP Office of Aging and Accessibility  
and view the document Proud to Empower  
Everyone, Everywhere with Inclusive  
Technology for more information. 
Products and solutions portfolio 
HP aims to deliver technology that improves  
lives and enables our customers and  
consumers to achieve more, safely and  
with less environmental impact. Through  
our portfolio of products and services, we  
create shared value for planet, people, and  
the communities where we live, work, and  
do business. 
104  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
  From laptops and workstations to gaming  
  As the global leader in home and office  
  Our innovation in large format printing  
helps meet the increasing environmental  
and workplace requirements of architects,  
engineers, construction professionals,  
and other graphics production customers  
such as signage and textiles.  
and virtual reality (VR) devices, we  
design our personal systems products  
PC  portfolio in the industry. 
printing solutions, we continue to redefine  
the marketplace, delivering sustainable  
next-generation solutions and service- 
based models, responsible forest product  
sourcing, climate action, and circular  
innovation to meet the needs of our  
customers globally.  
and services to provide customers the  
security, durability, and energy and  
materials efficiency they expect and  
depend on, and offer the most sustainable  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
Our new Amplify Impact program  extends our Sustainable Impact strategy  and invites partners to help drive  meaningful change across the global  IT industry. Partners that pledge to join  the program will tap into our extensive  knowledge, training, and resources  to assess and work to improve their  own sustainability performance while  supporting sustainability-driven sales  opportunities. Our goal is to enroll at  least 50% of our global Amplify channel  partners by 2025. 
  HP industrial graphics solutions are  
  HP 3D printing technology is enabling  
driving the analog-to-digital revolution,  
transforming our customers  supply  
chains, and better matching supply  
with demand across the 2D printing and  
publishing industries, as well as other  
commercial and industrial sectors such as  
packaging and labeling.  
transformation across sectors, changing  
how whole industries design, make, and  
distribute products for a more circular   
and inclusive economy, and a more  
sustainable Fourth Industrial Revolution. 
product groups. 
Investing in R D 
HP is reinventing the future through transformative technologies that will disrupt  
industries and economies around the world.  
In 2020, HP spent  1.5 billion on ongoing product development and creating  
the transformative and disruptive technologies of the future. We invest in areas  
where we can make the greatest impact, and we integrate sustainability into our  
research agenda. 
The majority of our R D spending is focused on inventions and development for  
products that will be released in the next one to two years. The rest is dedicated to  
HP Labs and the business units for new business creation (including 3D printing and  
microfluidics) and for developing technologies that will mature over the following  
three to seven years.  
At HP Labs, we focus on new technologies that will either result in new business  
creation, fundamental breakthroughs in science, or new product categories. Key  
areas of research include:  
As of October 31, 2020, HP s worldwide patent portfolio included over 28,000 patents.  
See Personal systems, Home and office printing solutions, Large format printing,  
Industrial graphics, and 3D printing for examples of innovation in each of our  
  Microfluidics  
  Security 
  3D printing and digital manufacturing 
HP offers the most sustainable PC portfolio in the industry, driven by customer  insights and leadership in energy efficiency, recycled materials use, product  longevity, design for end-of-life, and packaging.  
We apply circular economy principles to drive progress across the product and  service life cycle, such as by accelerating the shift from virgin materials to  recycled content, including ocean-bound and closed-loop plastics. Our durable  notebooks, desktops, and workstations, combined with maintenance and  recovery services (where available), keep valuable materials in use for as long  as possible.  
Education is foundational to sustainable development, and IT can help level the  playing field by delivering inclusive digital learning everywhere. This was more  true than ever during 2020, as flexibility, remote learning, and collaboration  grew in importance. Our products support access to opportunity to build skills  for the future. 
105  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Personal  systems 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
launched with ocean-bound   plastics, including in our Elite, Pro,   Z, Chromebook Enterprise, and  Pavilion 
4.96 MILLION UNITS 
repaired or remarketed and reused 9,780 TONNES 
of plastic in our personal systems  products (15.7% of the total) was  postconsumer recycled content 
postconsumer recycled content  plastic in commercial displays 2,997 TONNES 
of hard-to-recycle expanded plastic  foam eliminated by shipping   24 million units of personal systems  products in molded fiber packaging  (up from 6.8 million units in 2019) 28 HP DISPLAYS  recognized as Most Efficient of  ENERGY STAR 2020 
HIGHLIGHTS IN 2020 50  PRODUCTS 
3 product lines 
ENERGY STAR -certified personal  systems products more than any  other manufacturer 
reduction in portfolio energy  consumption since 2010:   45% for desktops   46% for notebooks   48% for workstations 
HP USES 100% RENEWABLE  ELECTRICITY  to power the final assembly of   90% of its PC and display products  worldwide 
HP PRODUCES THE   WORLD S MOST SECURE  and manageable PCs and  workstations 
SANITIZABLE  From Elite PCs and desktops, to Z by  HP and displays and select  accessories, these devices can be  wiped down with many common  disinfectant wipes 
HP LEARNING STUDIOS  brought state-of-the art educational  technology into more than 100  schools across North America,  Europe, the Middle East, Australia,  and New Zealand in 2020 
HP Elite c1030 Chromebook Enterprise 
SUSTAINABLE IMPACT PRODUCT INNOVATIONS 
106  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Elite c1030 Chromebook   Enterprise 
  World s first Chromebook with ocean-bound  
  Keyboard made from 50% postconsumer  
  Top lid of 75% recycled aluminum. 
  First EPEAT  Gold rated Chromebook. 
HP Wired Desktop 320 MK  
  Our first keyboard made with recycled material  
  Keyboard and mouse have low halogen 
recycled plastics. 
(50% postconsumer recycled plastic content). 
circuit boards. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
12 printed  
HP Zbook Studio G7 
Zbook Studio G7 
  World s first 14" mobile workstation with   
  Highly recyclable, lightweight aluminum exterior. 
  EPEAT Gold rating. 
HP Spectre x360 14 
  World s first keyboard scissors 
  ENERGY STAR  certified. 
  EPEAT Gold rating. 
  Intelligent power management to avoid  
ocean-bound plastics. 
from natural, renewable material. 
overheating and extend the life of the battery. 
HP Pavilion laptops   
  Uses 92,000 ocean-bound plastic bottles   
  ENERGY STAR certified. 
  EPEAT Silver rating. 
  Outer boxes and fiber cushions with 100%  
in the speaker housing. 
sustainably sourced and recyclable packaging. 
HP Spectre x360 14 
HP Pavilion 
Our vision for sustainable printing builds on  long-term goals and progress in responsible  sourcing of forest products, climate action,  circular innovation, and health and safety. We are  driving toward a forest positive future for print,  moving beyond zero deforestation to protect,  restore, and improve the management of forests  around the world. Through product and service  innovations, we continue to reduce the GHG  emissions intensity of our portfolio and help  customers reduce their own footprint. HP s  customers can now benefit from the planet s  most comprehensive carbon neutral Managed  Print Services (MPS) offering. 
we are increasing our use of postconsumer  recycled content plastic in hardware and supplies  and reducing single-use plastic packaging.   While striving toward these goals, we also follow  best practices to address safe usage of our  printing solutions. 
107  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Home and office   printing solutions  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
17 At the same time,  
HIGHLIGHTS 11,900 TONNES 
of Original HP Ink and Toner and  Samsung Cartridges recycled in 2020 
THE HP SUSTAINABLE   FORESTS COLLABORATIVE is driving progress toward our ambition  for HP Consumer Printing worldwide to  be forest positive by 2025 
HP MPS IS CERTIFIED  CARBONNEUTRAL   in accordance with the CarbonNeutral  Protocol 
reduces GHG emissions throughout the  product life cycle and offsets remaining  emissions by investing in high-quality  offsetting projects around the world) 
19 (as of September 2020  HP  
of printers ENERGY STAR  certified   (% models, for products shipped in 2020) 19 TONNES 
of plastic foam avoided by using  molded fiber cushioning for our   HP DeskJet 2700 printer packaging   in 2020 
ONLY ORIGINAL HP   INK CARTRIDGES 
have recycled ocean-bound plastic,  validated by UL  
ONLY ORIGINAL HP   INK CARTRIDGES  are made with upcycled plastic water  bottles and apparel hangers 
HP OFFERS THE WORLD S   MOST SECURE PRINTERS 
HP Planet Partners is world s   1  
printer supplies recycling program 
(in 67 countries and territories  worldwide as of October 31, 2020)  
SUSTAINABLE IMPACT PRODUCT INNOVATIONS 
108  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
HP  complete printing   solution launched 
  Combines innovative hardware, HP Instant Ink, and   
  New HP Forest First 
  Supports a circular economy: Using Original HP  
  HP  includes printers such as HP OfficeJet Pro 8000e  
HP Smart app to deliver a simple, seamless, and  sustainable printing experience for consumers   and small businesses. 
investment for each page printed, regardless of  paper brand, counteracting possible deforestation  for every HP  print.  
supplies ensures compatibility with HP s Planet  Partners supplies recycling program.  
series, which are ENERGY STAR  certified and are  made with more than 15% postconsumer recycled  plastic content.  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
25 feature: HP makes an  
HP Neverstop   Laser 1000 series 
  Continuous toner supply system for cartridge-  
  Toner reload kits recyclable through HP   
  Printer made with 33% postconsumer recycled  
  Supplies made with more than 75% postconsumer  
  ENERGY STAR certified. 
  EPEAT Silver rating. 
  BLUE ANGEL certified. 
HP Managed Print Services 
  HP Managed Print Services (MPS) reduces GHG  
  HP MPS printers such as HP Color LaserJet Managed  
free printing and less plastic waste. 
Planet Partners. 
content plastic. 
recycled content plastic. 
emissions by 12%, improves resource efficiency by  13%, and decreases ecosystems impacts by 12%   for a multifunction color laser printer. Learn more.  
MFP E78228dn, E78330dn, and E75245dn are  ENERGY STAR certified, EPEAT Silver or Gold rated,  and BLUE ANGEL certified. 
HP LaserJet 234dwe 
  HP s first product with HP Instant Ink for toner. 
  HP Forest First feature. 
  Automatic double-sided printing reduces paper  
  Private Pick-Up prevents printing until customer  
  Auto-On Auto-Off.  
  ENERGY STAR certified. 
waste by an estimated 25% or more. 
confirms proximity to the printer, reducing   unclaimed and forgotten print jobs. 
HP has continued to invest in sustainable  innovation and technologies with each new  generation of large format printing systems.  Our HP Latex and HP DesignJet systems are  designed to meet the increasing environmental  and workplace requirements of architects,  engineers, construction professionals, and  other graphics production customers, such as  print businesses producing large format  signage and d cor. For example, our latest  water-based HP Latex Ink provides a   no-hazard-warning label alternative to  eco-solvent, solvent, UV-curable, and UV gel  ink for the signage, decoration, and textile  printing segments. We closely manage each  system component (printers, printheads,   inks, and media) to provide a more sustainable  end-to-end large format printing solution. 
109  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Large format  printing  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
PRODUCT SPOTLIGHT 
DesignJet   printer series 
The world s easiest plotters, 
high-speed and high-quality printing.  Aligned with sustainable practices   and designed for use with water-  based inks.  
  HP DesignJet Studio 
  HP DesignJet T200 T600 
   The first net carbon neutral   HP DesignJet plotter. 
   ENERGY STAR  certified. 
   World s smallest large format  plotters. 
   Minimum of 30% information  technology equipment (ITE)- derived postconsumer recycled  
HP Eco-Carton Ink   Cartridge for large   format printers 
  Contains recycled and certified  
  Locally recyclable outer carton    
fiber, and recycled plastics from  our closed-loop recycling process,  beverage bottles, and UL-validated  ocean-bound plastic resins. 
inner bag can be returned free of  charge to HP Planet Partners, where  available for these products, which  will avoid any materials going to  landfill. 
   EPEAT  Gold rating. 
content plastic (see UL 2809  Recycled Content Validation),  saving 7.3 tonnes CO2e annually. 
  Reduces plastic use per liter of ink  
  First available with Latex 700 printer  
Industry s best print   permanence 
  HP Vivid photo inks used in HP  
Collaborated with The Ocean Agency   on projects using design to advance  ocean conservation and support the   UN Decade of Ocean Science. 
by 80% and decreases life cycle   CO2e emissions by 66% compared   to the previous plastic ink cartridge. 
series (launched in February 2021). 
Z9  demonstrate the highest print  permanence in the industry in tests  by Wilhelm Imaging Research, the  world s leading permanence testing  laboratory. 
HP s industrial graphics solutions support  customers  transition to the circular economy. 
We offer a wide range of industrial graphics  systems for the commercial printing, labels   and packaging, and specialty printing markets.  HP continues innovating to extend our print  solutions to even more applications, driving   the analog-to-digital shift, and design our  products for upgradeability, repair, and  refurbishment. We conduct a robust safety  assessment process for new product  development in combination with ongoing  technical and regulatory support to qualify  customer solutions. 
110  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Industrial  graphics  
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
PRODUCT SPOTLIGHT 
In 2020: 12,650 TONNES 
of CO2e avoided through offsets for   all HP Indigo presses 323 TONNES 
of HP Indigo presses refurbished   (14% of total presses shipped during  the year) 138 TONNES 
of spare parts (67% of parts returned)  reused after refurbishment  
330 TONNES 
of binary ink developer components  (49% of the amount shipped) and   1,416 tonnes of other supplies recovered  for recycling 16% 
of the plastic content in HP Indigo  hardware, supplies, and packaging  (excluding ink) was non-virgin, through  parts reuse or the use of postconsumer  recycled content plastic 
Key environmental performance  features of HP Indigo presses have been  certified by the third party Intertek under  its Green Leaf program. Learn more.  
Learn more about HP Indigo  Sustainable Impact.  
HP PageWide 
Release of HP Brilliant Ink extends  capabilities of existing printers to   new media and applications such as  premium color books 
The HP PageWide C500 Press prints  directly on corrugate packaging and  enables the use of thinner corrugate  with contactless printing, increasing  materials efficiency 
3D printing is a vital engine of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and a key  enabler in the shift toward a more circular and inclusive economy. HP Jet  Fusion 3D printing solutions, based on disruptive HP Multi Jet Fusion  technology, are helping to reinvent design. Parts can be made to optimize  materials use while delivering fine detail combined with strength.   3D printing also brings production closer to the point of consumption,  simplifying supply chains. During 2020, the HP 3D Printing team and   Digital Manufacturing team worked with its global digital manufacturing  community to mobilize 3D printing teams, technology, experience, and  production capacity to help deliver critical parts in the effort to battle the  COVID-19 pandemic.  
To learn more, see Transforming Design and Manufacturing. 
111  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
3D printing 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
for HP PP nylon material for HP Jet  Fusion 3D printing (introduced   in 2020) 
HIGHLIGHTS 4  MILLION PARTS 
3D printed by HP and its partners to  fight COVID-19, such as face shields,  nasal swabs, and hands-free door  openers. Learn more. 
  900  HP employee volunteers   50  partners and customers   
  15  new applications developed 
Up to  100% SURPLUS 
3D printing powder reusability 
3D PRINTING, COMPARED TO TRADITIONAL MANUFACTURING,  can drive lower GHG emissions and waste throughout the product life cycle.  
  Innovative designs including  
  Materials optimized to avoid wasted  
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT  
  Customization and innovation. 
  Faster iteration and less tooling. 
DISTRIBUTION 
  Reduced product transportation   
worldwide joined us to design and  produce parts 
 complex lightweight components.  
resources. 
and associated impacts. 
  THE HP JET FUSION 5200  SERIES 3D AUTOMATIC  UNPACKING STATION  launched in 2021 saves time   and can increase recapture of  unused powder in printing 
less GHG emissions from the 3D  printing of parts using nylon material  than traditional manufacturing using  metal (see detail)  
MANUFACTURING 
  Simplified supply chains and   
  Supply chain digitization improves  
  Short, fast, cost-efficient runs. 
  Better matching of supply and   
  Decreased inventory cost. 
  Unlimited availability of spare parts. 
more local production. 
resilience and risk mitigation. 
demand and reduced waste. 
SUSTAINABLE IMPACT PRODUCT INNOVATIONS 
112  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Advancing molded   fiber packaging 
Our new HP Molded Fiber Advanced Tooling Solution  helps customers design and deliver quality molded  fiber products, faster. 
customized, short runs due to significantly lower  tooling investment. 
Watch a video about how we use this solution within   HP, and learn about our collaboration with Veritiv and  Fiber Innovation. 
Sustainable Impact Supply chain responsibility Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Products and solutions 
33 This technology allows  
Industrial post processing for   innovative 3D printing applications 
HP s partnership with Additive Manufacturing  Technologies, a global leader in automated chemical  vapor smoothing systems, is driving the growth of  3D-printed parts across industries including  automotive, industrial, medical, and sporting goods.  Together, we are enabling customers to produce  manufacturing-grade parts at scale.  Learn more. 
Collaborating to address   a health crisis 
With governments, hospitals, and health experts  around the world, our 3D printing development teams  identified the most needed parts to help tackle  COVID-19, validated designs, and began production.   We also made designs for shields, masks, mask  adjusters, and hands-free door openers freely available  on our website. Learn more.  
Find out how Smile Direct Club, Zigg Zagg, and Les  Visi res de l Espoir (Face Shields of Hope) used HP 3D  printing equipment to respond to the pandemic. 
Product and solutions  
   In some cases, segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 
    See endnote 27 on page 139. 
     HP updated its calculation methodology in 2020 for printing-related product use phase GHG emissions to more accurately  
113  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Product use GHG emissions  intensity   [% reduction since 2015] 
GHG emissions from product use     [tonnes CO2e] 
Water consumption related to  product use   [cubic meters] 
reflect energy-related emissions and paper consumption, to use a more accurate and updated GHG emissions conversion  factor for paper, and to account for emissions associated with print supplies in Category 1 instead of Category 11 (as  previously). We restated 2019 data using the updated methodology, for comparability.  
Personal systems (energy) 8,200,000 8,300,000 9,400,000 8,900,000  8,800,000 
Desktop and enterprise printers  (energy)      
Industrial graphics (energy) 250,000 350,000 270,000 290,000 160,000 
3D printing solutions (energy) Not applicable 180,000 180,000 290,000  150,000 
Printing consumables for desktop  and enterprise printers  
Printing consumables for industrial  graphics printing solutions 
Personal systems (energy) 70,000,000 71,000,000 84,000,000 80,000,000 80,000,000 
Desktop and enterprise printers  (energy)     
Industrial graphics (energy) 2,200,000 3,000,000 2,400,000 2,600,000 1,500,000 
3D printing solutions (energy) Not applicable 1,600,000 1,600,000 2,600,000  1,400,000 
Printing consumables for desktop  and enterprise printers (paper)      
Printing consumables for industrial  graphics printing solutions (paper) 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
156,300,000    180,600,000    195,000,000    178,000,000    153,900,000    
45,800,000 73,000,000 75,000,000 63,000,000 50,000,000 
19,300,000 22,100,000     23,400,000     18,200,000 15,800,000     
31,100,000 20,000,000 18,000,000 19,000,000 15,000,000 
6,500,000 9,400,000 9,900,000 5,700,000  4,400,000 
3,600,000 2,400,000 2,000,000 2,000,000 1,700,000 
7,200,000 12,000,000 14,000,000 11,000,000 6,000,000 
790,000 1,300,000 1,500,000 980,000 540,000 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
2% 11% 11% 18% 33% 
      Total GHG emissions from product use in 2017 and 2018 differ by less than 1% from the values reported on page 22, due   
       Beginning in 2017, our LaserJet power usage data more accurately reflects typical idle and print energy. These changes were  
HP materials use  [tonnes] 990,600   942,000 
Postconsumer recycled content   plastic used in HP products [tonnes] 
to rounding. 
not applied retroactively. Scope 3 emissions from inkjet and LaserJet printers that HP manufactures for sale and service by  other original equipment manufacturers are excluded from our carbon footprint. In 2020, these printers represented less than  3.7% of HP printers manufactured in the reporting year and consequently, their associated emissions represented less than  4.9% of the product life cycle emissions of all HP manufactured printers. Scope 1 and 2 emissions from the manufacturing of  these printers at HP operated facilities is captured in the Scope 1 and 2 data reported in this year s report. 
Recycled content plastic in HP  products and packaging  
Recycled fiber in HP brand paper  and packaging   
Certified sustainably managed  fiber in HP brand paper and  packaging   
Personal systems N A 8,080 8,360 9,650 9,780 
Home and office printers N A 1,260 4,790 6,760 8,720 
Original HP Ink Cartridges 5,517 5,901 5,354 5,384 5,767 
Original HP and Samsung Toner  Cartridges  
Large format and industrial  graphics printers    
Total     18,160 21,250 25,360 27,490 
Electronic products 587,800 562,700 
Paper 230,600 213,300 
Packaging    172,200 166,000 
Metal 209,600 202,800 
Plastic 270,200 251,500 
Other    108,000 108,400 
3,493 2,921 2,746 3,565 2,913 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
N A N A N A 200 310 
254,600 248,300 
34,200 34,200  
87,500 100,800 
    Data for 2017 2020 better reflect average laser printer paper usage. This represented the majority of the increase  compared to 2016. 
     HP updated its calculation methodology in 2020, to more accurately reflect printing-related energy use. We restated 2019  
     Total water consumption related to product use differs by less than 1% from the values reported on page 23, due to rounding. 
      Beginning in 2017, our LaserJet power usage data more accurately reflects typical idle and print energy. These changes  
       Data for 2017 2020 better reflect average laser printer paper usage. This represented the majority of the increase  
Product repair, reuse, and recycling  
114  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Total recycling of hardware and supplies   [tonnes, approximate] 119,900 141,500 133,800 129,100 118,000 
Electronic equipment repaired   [units] 5,050,000 4,600,000 4,340,000 4,620,000 5,310,000 
Electronic equipment remarketed and reused [units] 1,250,000 1,270,000 1,250,000 1,210,000 1,280,000 
Number of countries and territories with HP return  and recycling programs 73 74 74 76 77 
Total recycling, by region [tonnes] 
Total recycling, by type [tonnes] 
Original HP and Samsung Toner Cartridge recycling 
data using the updated methodology, for comparability. 
were not applied retroactively. Indirect water consumption from inkjet and LaserJet printers that HP manufactures for  sale and service by other original equipment manufacturers is excluded from our water footprint. In 2020, these printers  represented less than 3.7% of HP printers manufactured in the reporting year, and consequently their associated indirect  water consumption during product use represented less than 5.2% of the product life cycle water consumption of all HP  manufactured printers. Water withdrawal from the manufacturing of these printers at HP operated facilities is captured in  the direct water withdrawal data reported in this year s report. 
compared to 2016. 
Americas 48,800 61,100 55,200 52,400 38,300 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 59,200 64,100 62,900 60,000 60,200 
Asia Pacific and Japan 11,900 16,300 15,700 16,700 19,500 
Hardware 102,800 125,200 117,100 113,400 106,000 
Original HP and Samsung Toner Cartridges    15,400 14,800 15,300 14,300 10,600 
Original HP Ink Cartridges    1,700 1,500 1,400 1,400 1,300 
HP toner market covered by program [%] 92% 92% 91% 91% 92% 
Composition [%] 
Material recovered for recycling 80.9% 83.9% 82.1% 83.4% 86.4% 
Materials used for energy recovery 16.8% 13.2% 14.7% 13.7% 11.8% 
Reuse of components 2.3% 2.9% 2.9% 2.5% 1.8% 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Appendix Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
    The data in this table does not include the following products or packaging for these products: commercial, industrial,   
     Data for 2019 are restated compared to data reported in the HP 2019 Sustainable Impact Report to reflect a more accurate  
     Includes wires cables, PCAs, LCDs, and batteries.  
    Recycled content plastic in HP products is postconsumer. Recycled content plastic in HP packaging is a mix of pre-consumer  
     This material is renewable. As defined in the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards, renewable  
     Data for 2019 includes large format printers. Data for 2020 includes large format and industrial graphics printers. 
      Segments for some years do not add up to total due to rounding. 
    Totals include all hardware and supplies returned to HP for processing, with ultimate dispositions including recycling, energy  recovery, and, where no suitable alternatives exist, responsible disposal. Original HP Toner and Ink Cartridge recycling data is  for calendar year. The remaining data is based on the HP fiscal year. Although for HP print cartridges we report the composition  of recovered materials, we cannot provide this data for hardware because we do not have operational control over all recycling  processes and so do not have access to this information. In some cases, segments do not add up to total due to rounding.  Several data points for 2019 are restated to reflect methodology changes in Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States, and  to correct a calculation error in Canada. Although we do not include data prior to 2016 in the Product repair, reuse, and recycling  section, the vast majority of product hardware recycling data, and all toner and ink cartridge recycling data, reported in past  years was associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. Through 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company reported  1,497,500 tonnes of cumulative computer hardware and supplies recycling combined. 
    Data for 2020 reflects a more complete data set and enhanced calculation methodology. Recycling volumes in 2020 were  
     Includes cartridges returned by customers only. 
Original HP Ink Cartridge recycling 
adversely impacted by lockdowns, and customer behavior impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.  
or 3D printing products  scanners  personal systems accessories sold separately  spare parts  or the weight of ink and toner   in cartridges. 
calculation methodology for packaging materials use. 
and postconsumer. 
material is  material derived from plentiful resources that are quickly replenished by ecological cycles or agricultural  processes, so that the services provided by these and other linked resources are not endangered and remain available for  the next generation.  This data includes paper, paper-based packaging, and wood pallets. 
HP ink market covered by program [%] 91% 87% 89% 90% 91% 
Composition [%] 
Material in storage pending processing 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 
Incineration 0.0% 0.0% 0.3% 0.5% 0.0% 
Landfill 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 
Materials recovered for recycling 77.9% 73.9% 74.6% 74.2% 73.6% 
Materials used for energy recovery 21.6% 23.7% 23.7% 25.8% 24.5% 
Reuse of components 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 
Material in storage pending processing 0.4% 0.5% 0.7% 0.0% 1.9% 
Incineration 0.0% 1.8% 1.0% 0.0% 0.0% 
Landfill 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
115  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
116 About this report  
118 Policies and standards  
119 Independent accountants  review report  
122 Material issues  
124 United Nations Global Compact index  
125 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals index  
126 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board index  
127 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures index  
128 WEF IBC Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics index  
129 Global Reporting Initiative index  
135 Endnotes 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
About this report 
HP has reported yearly on its social and  
environmental progress since 2001.  
We provide in-depth information to  
stakeholders, including customers, industry  
analysts, socially responsible investors,  
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs),  
employees, sustainability specialists,  
governments, and others. 
To determine report contents, we consider: 
116  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
  Our materiality assessment. 
  Input from executives and content  
  Input from external stakeholders. 
  The broader sustainability context  
  External standards and frameworks  
  Global reporting trends and best practices. 
experts across HP. 
and trends. 
such as the Global Reporting Initiative  
Sustainability Reporting Standards, the  
UN Global Compact, the UN Sustainable  
Development Goals, the Sustainability  
Accounting Standards Board Hardware  
Sustainability Accounting Standard, the  
Task Force on Climate-related Financial  
Disclosures, and the World Economic  
Forum International Business Council  
Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
In addition to our Sustainable Impact Report,  
we report on our programs and progress on  
our Sustainable Impact website on an ongoing  
basis. Our past reports are available online. 
Reporting scope   and measures 
  This report describes HP s Sustainable  
  The information in this report is current  
  The performance data in this report  
  All references to years are to HP s fiscal  
  All references to dollars are to U.S. dollars.  
   Tonnes  refers to metric tons. 
Impact policies, programs, and goals. It  
includes HP s performance data through  
FY2020 (which ended October 31, 2020),  
unless stated otherwise. 
as of the date of its initial publication. The  
report has not been updated to reflect  
any changes since that date, including  
any changes to HP s business or strategy.  
HP assumes no obligation and does not  
intend to update this report to reflect any  
such changes. 
covers 100% of HP s global business  
operations and or revenue, as of HP s  
most recently completed fiscal year,  
unless stated otherwise.  
year, which ends October 31, 2020, unless  
stated otherwise.  
Metrics and goals 
The metrics in this report are HP data,  
unless stated otherwise. Collecting data  
from hundreds of global sites is complex,  
and the process can vary by issue, business  
unit, function, and geography. As a result,  
company-wide metrics can be difficult  
to define and implement. We continue to  
standardize our measurement systems  
and metrics. Data is rounded to reflect the  
appropriate level of certainty. 
Reporting performance beyond our  
immediate operations is also challenging.  
We must make assumptions when  
estimating Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG)  
emissions, product energy consumption and  
resulting GHG emissions, the percentage  
of HP products that are recycled, and other  
metrics. Where appropriate, we provide  
context for data to help readers understand  
limitations and draw appropriate conclusions. 
Forward-looking content reflects approaches,  
goals, and priorities established by the HP  
teams responsible for implementing them.  
These were set in consultation with internal,  
and in some cases external, stakeholders and  
consider leading corporate practices.  
Your comments and suggestions are  
important to us. Please provide any  
feedback on this report, our performance, or  
our website using our online form. 
External verification 
Assurance demonstrates that information  
in this report describes our performance  
accurately and completely.  
In 2020, HP engaged Ernst   Young LLP (EY)  
to perform an independent review of selected  
key performance indicators in our HP 2020  
Sustainable Impact Report. This process was  
conducted in accordance with attestation  
standards established by the American  
Institute of Certified Public Accountants. 
For a full listing of the indicators within  
the scope of EY s review, please see the  
Independent accountants  review report.  
In addition, the following data received  
external assurance this year:  
  Product repair, reuse, and recycling:  
  Supply chain: HP participates in the  
Through ERM, HP audited 34 vendor  
facilities in 22 countries during 2020.  
This included repeat audits of 19 vendor  
facilities to evaluate their efforts to  
improve performance. Learn more in  
Product reuse and recycling vendors.  
Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)  
Validated Assessment Program (VAP),  
which uses independent external  
auditors to audit our suppliers  social and  
environmental responsibility performance  
against HP Supplier Code of Conduct  
requirements. Learn more in Supply  
chain responsibility. 
Forward-looking statements 
This document contains forward-looking statements based  on current expectations and assumptions that involve risks  and uncertainties. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize  or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP Inc. and  its consolidated subsidiaries ( HP ) may differ materially from  those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements  and assumptions. 
All statements other than statements of historical fact are  statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements,  including, but not limited to, any statements regarding the  potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the actions by  governments, businesses and individuals in response to the  situation  projections of net revenue, margins, expenses, effective  tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows,  benefit plan funding, deferred taxes, share repurchases, foreign  currency exchange rates or other financial items  any projections  of the amount, timing or impact of cost savings or restructuring  and other charges, planned structural cost reductions and  productivity initiatives  any statements of the plans, strategies  and objectives of management for future operations, including,  but not limited to, our business model and transformation, our  sustainability goals, our go-to-market strategy, the execution of  restructuring plans and any resulting cost savings, net revenue  or profitability improvements or other financial impacts  any  statements concerning the expected development, performance,  market share or competitive performance relating to products  or services  any statements regarding current or future  macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends  and events on HP and its financial performance  any statements  regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes  any  statements of expectation or belief, including with respect to the  timing and expected benefits of acquisitions and other business  combination and investment transactions  and any statements  of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward- looking statements can also generally be identified by words  such as  future,   anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   expects,   
117  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
 intends,   plans,   predicts,   projects,   will,   would,   could,    can,   may,  and similar terms.  
Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include factors relating  to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the actions by  governments, businesses and individuals in response to the  situation, the effects of which may give rise to or amplify  the risks associated with many of these factors listed here   HP s ability to execute on its strategic plan, including the  previously announced initiatives, business model changes and  transformation  execution of planned structural cost reductions  and productivity initiatives  HP s ability to complete any  contemplated share repurchases, other capital return programs  or other strategic transactions  the need to address the many  challenges facing HP s businesses  the competitive pressures  faced by HP s businesses  risks associated with executing HP s  strategy and business model changes and transformation   successfully innovating, developing and executing HP s go-to- market strategy, including online, omnichannel and contractual  sales, in an evolving distribution and reseller landscape  the  development and transition of new products and services and  the enhancement of existing products and services to meet  customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends   successfully competing and maintaining the value proposition of  HP s products, including supplies  the need to manage third-party  suppliers, manage HP s global, multi-tier distribution network,  limit potential misuse of pricing programs by HP s channel  partners, adapt to new or changing marketplaces and effectively  deliver HP s services  challenges to HP s ability to accurately  forecast inventories, demand and pricing, which may be due to  HP s multi-tiered channel, sales of HP s products to unauthorized  resellers or unauthorized resale of HP s products  integration and  other risks associated with business combination and investment  transactions  the results of the restructuring plans, including  estimates and assumptions related to the cost (including any  possible disruption of HP s business) and the anticipated benefits  of the restructuring plans  the protection of HP s intellectual  property assets, including intellectual property licensed from  
third parties  the hiring and retention of key employees  the  impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events   risks associated with HP s international operations  the execution  and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers,  clients and partners  disruptions in operations from system  security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks, extreme  weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics such as the  COVID-19 pandemic, and other natural or manmade disasters  or catastrophic events  the impact of changes to federal, state,  local and foreign laws and regulations, including environmental  regulations and tax laws  potential impacts, liabilities and costs  from pending or potential investigations, claims and disputes  and  other risks that are described herein and in HP s Annual Report on  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2020 and that are  otherwise described or updated from time to time in HP s other  filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
As in prior periods, the financial information set forth in this  document, including any tax-related items, reflects estimates  based on information available at the time of preparation of this  document. While HP believes these estimates to be reasonable,  these amounts could differ materially from reported amounts in  HP s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended  July 31, 2021, Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year  ended October 31, 2021, and HP s other filings with the Securities  and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements  in this document are made as of the date of this document and  HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these  forward-looking statements.  
HP s Investor Relations website at investor.hp.com contains a  significant amount of information about HP, including financial  and other information for investors. HP encourages investors  to visit its website from time to time, as information is updated,  and new information is posted. The content of HP s website is  not incorporated by reference into this document or in any other  report or document HP files with the SEC, and any references to  HP s website are intended to be inactive textual references only. 
Policies and standards 
Sustainable Impact 
Environment 
118  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
  Human Rights Policy 
  Harassment-Free Work  
  Nondiscrimination Policy 
  Open Door Policy 
  Climate Action Policy Position 
  Environmental, Health, and Safety  
  Export of Electronic Waste to Developing  
  General Specification for the   
  Hardware Recycling Standard 
  Hardware Reuse Standard 
  Sustainable Paper and Wood Policy 
  Materials and Chemical  
Environment Policy 
(EHS) Policy 
Countries Policy 
Environment (GSE) 
Management Policy 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
Supply chain responsibility 
  Supply Chain Foreign Migrant  
  Supply Chain Social and Environmental  
  Anti-corruption Policy  
  Contingent Worker Code of Conduct 
  Corporate Governance Guidelines 
  Global Business Amenities Policy 
  Integrity at HP 
  Partner Code of Conduct 
  U.S. Public Sector Code of Conduct 
  Privacy Statement 
  Student and Dispatch Worker Standard for  
  Supplier Code of Conduct 
Worker Standard 
Responsibility Policy 
Supplier Facilities in the People s Republic  
of China (PRC) 
Independent accountants  review report 
To the Stockholders and the  Board of Directors of HP Inc. 
We have reviewed HP Inc. s ( HP )  
accompanying schedules of select  
sustainability information included in  
Appendix A (the  Subject Matter ) for   
the year ended October 31, 2020 in  
accordance with the criteria also set   
forth in Appendix A (the  Criteria ). HP s  
management is responsible for the   
Subject Matter in accordance with the  
Criteria. Our responsibility is to express   
a conclusion on the Subject Matter   
based on our review. 
Our review was conducted in accordance  
with attestation standards established  
by the American Institute of Certified  
Public Accountants (AICPA) AT-C section  
105, Concepts Common to All Attestation  
Engagements, and AT-C section 210, Review  
Engagements. Those standards require  
that we plan and perform our review to  
obtain limited assurance about whether  
any material modifications should be made  
to the Subject Matter in order for it to be  
in accordance with the Criteria. A review  
consists principally of applying analytical  
procedures, making inquiries of persons  
119  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
responsible for the subject matter, obtaining  
an understanding of the data management  
systems and processes used to generate,  
aggregate and report the Subject Matter and  
performing such other procedures as we  
considered necessary in the circumstances.  
A review is substantially less in scope than  
an examination, the objective of which is to  
obtain reasonable assurance about whether  
the Subject Matter is in accordance with the  
Criteria, in all material respects, in order  
to express an opinion. Accordingly, we do  
not express such an opinion. A review also  
does not provide assurance that we became  
aware of all significant matters that would  
be disclosed in an examination. We believe  
that our review provides a reasonable basis  
for our conclusion. 
In performing our review, we have also  
complied with the independence and other  
ethical requirements set forth in the Code  
of Professional Conduct and applied the  
Statements on Quality Control Standards  
established by the AICPA. 
As described in Appendix A, the Subject  
Matter is subject to measurement  
uncertainties resulting from limitations  
inherent in the nature and the methods used  
for determining such data. The selection  
San Jose, CA 
of different but acceptable measurement  
techniques can result in materially different  
measurements. The precision of different  
measurement techniques may also vary. 
The information included in HP s 2020  
Sustainable Impact Report, other than the  
Subject Matter, has not been subjected to  
the procedures applied in our review and,  
accordingly, we express no conclusion on it. 
Based on our review, we are not aware of any  
material modifications that should be made  
to the accompanying schedules of select  
sustainability information for the year ended  
October 31, 2020, in order for the schedules  
to be in accordance with the Criteria. 
May 12, 2021  
Ernst   Young LLP  303 Almaden Blvd  San Jose, CA 95110  United States of America  Tel:  1 (408) 947-5500 
Appendix A HP Inc. Schedules of Select Sustainability Information 
1  Where possible, based on HP Inc. s reporting timeline and requirements, HP Inc. uses the most up to date emission factors available at the time. 
2 Carbon Accounting Manual is available at http:  h20195.www2.hp.com V2 getpdf.aspx c05179524.pdf. 
3 Scope 3 GHG emissions includes the following categories: Category 1 Purchased goods and services, Category 2 Capital goods, Category 3 Fuel- and energy-related activities not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2, Category 4 and 9 Transportation  
4 Direct energy use refers to direct energy consumption in HP s operations including natural gas, renewable energy generated on-site, and diesel oil gas LPG, similar to the Scope 1 emissions boundary. Transportation fleet, refrigerants, and  
5 Note that 1 MWh equates to 3,600 megajoules. 
6 Indirect energy includes purchased electricity and steam and does not include renewable energy purchases. 
7 Direct water withdrawal for HP operations. Includes: 1,000 cubic meters of surface water, representing captured rain water  20,000 cubic meters of ground water, representing well water  and 2,576,000 cubic meters of ground water,  
8  Note that 1,000 cubic meters equates to 1 mega-liter. 
120  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Direct water withdrawal 7  Global Cubic meters 8 2,597,000 GRI Standard 303-3(a) Water withdrawal and HP management definitions  disclosed in the 2020 Sustainable Impact Report 
Scope 3 GHG emissions 1,3 Global tCO2e 44,720,000 WRI WBCSD s The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain   (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, WRI WBCSD s The Greenhouse  Gas Protocol Technical Guidance for Calculating Scope 3 Emissions, GRI  Standard 305-3 Other Indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions and HP s Carbon  Accounting Manual 2  
Indicator name Scope Unit Reported value  Criteria 
Scope 1 greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions 
Scope 2 GHG emissions (location -based-method) 1 Global tCO2e 203,600 WRI WBCSD s The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and  Reporting Standard, WRI WBCSD s The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2  Guidance, GRI Standard 305-2 Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions and  HP s Carbon Accounting Manual 2 Scope 2 GHG emissions (market-based-method) 1 Global tCO2e 120,400 
Direct energy use in operations (corresponds to   Scope 1 emissions) 
Indirect energy use (corresponds to Scope 2 emissions) 6 Global MWh 5 483,990 
Voluntary purchases of renewable energy Global MWh 5 239,571 
and distribution, Category 6 Business travel, Category 7 Employee commuting, Category 11 Use of sold products, and Category 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products. 
perfluorinated compounds are excluded from direct energy use, although they are included in the Scope 1 GHG emissions boundary. 
representing municipal water and NeWater, which is wastewater sourced from another organization. Note that sewage treatment plant (STP) water is not included within the scope of water withdrawal. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
4 Global MWh 5 120,911 GRI Standard 302-1 Energy Consumption Within the Organization and HP  management definitions disclosed in the 2020 Sustainable Impact Report 
1 Global Tonnes of carbon  dioxide equivalents  (tCO2e) 
Schedule of Select Environmental Metrics for the year ended October 31, 2020 
50,600 World Resources Institute ( WRI ) World Business Council for Sustainable  Development s ( WBCSD ) The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate  Accounting and Reporting Standard, Global Reporting Initiative ( GRI ) Standard  305-1 Direct (Scope 1) Emissions and HP s Carbon Accounting Manual 
Note A: Non-financial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially  different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. 
9  Responsible Business Alliance (RBA). 
10 Other priority nonconformances and major nonconformances represent 3.1% and 96.9% of other nonconformances, respectively. 
121  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Indicator name Scope Reported value  Criteria 
Supplier audits and assessments completed, including  percentage RBA 
(VAP) audits 
Supplier audit finding rate for major nonconformances   and priority findings 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
9 Validated Assessment Program   
Schedule of Supply Chain Audits, Assessments and Findings for the year ended October 31, 2020 
Global In 2020, we completed 103 audits of production,  nonproduction, and product transportation  suppliers, and 3 other assessments of production  suppliers. During the year, 90% of production  supplier audits were third-party certified RBA   VAP audits. 
Global 53 initial audits and full re-audits of production  suppliers conducted in 2020 identified  10 immediate priority findings, equivalent  to 0.19 per audit on average, and 294 other  nonconformances, 
audit on average. 
10 equivalent to 5.5 per   
Production suppliers provide materials and components for product  manufacturing and also assemble HP products. Product transportation  suppliers provide services for the shipping and delivery of HP products.  Nonproduction suppliers provide goods and services that do not go into the  production of HP products (such as staffing, telecommunications, and travel). 
Audits of production suppliers, product transportation suppliers, suppliers  supporting HP manufacturing, and HP manufacturing sites follow the RBA Code  of Conduct Audit Protocol 6.0. HP also participates in the RBA VAP, which uses  independent external auditors to audit suppliers  social and environmental  responsibility performance against HP Supplier Code of Conduct requirements. 
Other assessments include (1) health and safety assessments, (2) onboarding  assessments, (3) vulnerable worker group (student and foreign worker)  assessments, and (4) KPI validation assessments. 
Immediate priority findings are the most serious type of supplier  nonconformance and require immediate action. These would include any  priority nonconformances (as defined by the RBA VAP) identified related to  the following topics: child labor, forced labor, severe forms of discrimination,  health and safety issues posing immediate danger to life or risk of serious  injury, and perceived violation of environmental laws posing serious and  immediate harm to the community. 
Other nonconformances include all other priority nonconformances and all  major nonconformances as defined by the RBA VAP. 
Material issues 
The following table summarizes issues determined to meet the materiality threshold for this report. 
122  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Issue  Description GRI Standards topic(s) Topic boundary  Location 
Circular economy Managing product life cycles through design criteria and business models that:  promote product serviceability and longevity  enable usage as a service  increase  repair, reuse, recycling, recycled content, and closed material loops  and dematerialize  processes and products. 
Climate change Working across our value chain and in collaboration with external partners to address  the risks, opportunities, and impacts of climate change on our business, customers,  the natural environment, and society, with a focus on resilience and adaptation. 
Energy use and GHG  emissions 
Packaging Decreasing the environmental impact of HP packaging, including by reducing materials  use, increasing the use of recycled and biodegradable materials, and eliminating  deforestation and single use plastic associated with packaging, where feasible. 
Paper and printed materials Advancing more sustainable printing by HP and our customers through the sourcing,  use, and recycling of paper and other printed materials, enabling more efficient  printing practices, and addressing the impacts of deforestation. 
Product energy efficiency Increasing the energy efficiency of HP products and services, and enabling customers  to reduce energy use through efficient product fleets. 
Diversity and inclusion Fostering diversity and inclusion within our workforce, supply chain, and communities  worldwide. Building a workforce representative of our customer base and communities. 
Human capital Attracting, retaining, and developing human capital to meet current and future business  needs. Providing compensation, benefits, and wellness programs that support engaged  and productive employees and promote work life balance, as well as managing the  negative impacts of workforce reductions and relocations. 
Human rights Respecting human rights throughout our value chain consistent with international  norms, remedying human rights abuses in our operations and the customer use of  products and services where we caused or contributed to the impact. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
Improving energy efficiency, increasing renewable energy use, and reducing the GHG  emissions of HP s operations, including our owned and leased facilities and auto  aviation fleet, and our supply chain, including product transportation and logistics. 
Materials Supply chain 
No GRI-specific Topics (GHG  emissions are addressed in the  next row) 
Materials Supply chain 
Materials Supply chain 
Energy Products and solutions Create a net zero carbon future 
Diversity and Equal Opportunity Supply chain 
Employment 
Labor Management Relations 
Training and Education 
Human Rights Assessment   (we already report on this item) 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
Supply chain 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
Supply chain (first- and second-tier  suppliers, Scope 3 emissions) 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
Products and solutions 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
HP operations Employee engagement 
Supply chain 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
Advancing a circular and net zero carbon economy 
Product repair, reuse, and recycling 
Products and solutions portfolio 
Supply chain responsibility: Environmental  impact: GHG emissions 
Our facilities: GHG emissions 
Supply chain responsibility: Environmental  impact: GHG emissions 
Our facilities: GHG emissions 
Packaging innovation 
Paper and forestry products 
Supplier diversity 
Diversity, equity, and inclusion 
Employee development 
Compensation and benefits 
Human rights 
Supply chain responsibility 
123  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Issue  Description GRI Standards topic(s) Topic boundary  Location 
Product and operational  health and safety 
Sourcing and supply chain  labor practices 
Community investment and  involvement 
Role of IT in society Enhancing the impact of digitalization on healthcare, education, and the workplace,  including delivering IT solutions that improve access and opportunities and   enable customers and communities to make progress toward the Sustainable  Development Goals. 
Governance 
Corporate governance Maintaining the standards, structures, and processes to ensure the diversity and  independence of the Board of Directors, and the effective governance of HP, including  the company's Sustainable Impact strategy, goals, and programs. 
Data and product security Designing products and processes that protect the collection, analysis, use, storage,  transfer, and sharing of information from unwanted parties, unauthorized access,   and security threats, including cyberattacks. 
Ethics and anti-corruption Promoting high ethical standards and combating corruption in all of our business  interactions, including in joint ventures and with business partners, customers,  suppliers, and distributors. 
Privacy Collecting, analyzing, using, storing, transferring, and sharing information in ways  that uphold the right to privacy and personal data protection. Complying with evolving  privacy laws and standards. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
Working to create a healthy, safe, and secure working environment in our supply  chain, operations, and for our customers, including managing the use of materials,  chemicals, and substances of concern in the manufacturing and use of our products. 
Monitoring and strengthening social and economic conditions throughout our supply  chain, and addressing key areas of risk and opportunity such as working hours   and conditions, wages and benefits, capability building, health and safety, humane  treatment of workers, prevention of slavery and forced labor, and responsible  minerals sourcing. 
Supporting employee volunteering and charitable giving, and providing  corporate financial and in-kind contributions for underserved communities and  underrepresented populations. 
Occupational Health and Safety 
Customer Health and Safety 
Indirect Economic Impacts 
Nondiscrimination 
Freedom of Association and  Collective Bargaining 
Child Labor 
Forced or Compulsory Labor 
Human Rights Assessment 
Supplier Environmental  Assessment 
Supplier Social Assessment 
Indirect Economic Impacts Community giving and volunteerism 
No GRI-specific Topics Products and solutions Community giving and volunteerism 
No GRI-specific Topics HP operations Sustainable Impact: Governance 
No GRI-specific Topics Supply chain 
Anti-corruption Supply chain (interactions with  suppliers, business partners,   and contractors) 
Customer Privacy HP operations (employees)  
Supply chain 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
Supply chain (first- and second-tier  suppliers  sub-tier suppliers in high- risk areas such as the Democratic  Republic of the Congo  there are  multiple tiers between HP and  smelters that trade with exporters). 
We ask that first-tier suppliers  communicate our HP Supplier Code  of Conduct to their suppliers, thereby  propagating the requirements to our  sub-tier suppliers. 
HP operations 
Products and solutions 
HP operations 
Products and solutions (interactions  with business partners and  customers) 
Products and solutions (customers  and partners) 
Supply chain responsibility: Health and safety 
Health and safety 
Product safety 
Supply chain responsibility 
Social impact 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
Governance 
HP 2021 Proxy Statement 
Cybersecurity 
Product security and privacy 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
United Nations Global Compact index 
HP is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a set of voluntary commitments for companies to improve human rights, labor conditions,  
the environment, and anti-corruption controls. This table links to the sections of this report that address the UNGC S Ten Principles. 
124  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Principle Location 
Human rights 
Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of  internationally proclaimed human rights  and 
Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights 
Labor standards 
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the  effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining  
Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor  Human rights 
Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor  and Human rights 
Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment   and occupation. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
Human rights 
Supply chain responsibility 
Our employees 
Human Rights Policy 
HP 2020 Human Rights Update 
Supply chain responsibility 
Human Rights Policy 
HP 2020 Human Rights Update 
Human rights 
Supply chain responsibility 
Human Rights Policy 
HP 2020 Human Rights Update 
Supply chain responsibility 
Human Rights Policy 
HP 2020 Human Rights Update 
Supply chain responsibility 
Human Rights Policy 
HP 2020 Human Rights Update 
Human rights 
Supply chain responsibility 
Diversity, equity, and inclusion 
 To promote higher standards across the areas of human   rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, we endorse   the United Nations Global Compact as a practical framework   for the development, implementation, and disclosure of  sustainability policies and practices.  
Enrique Lores, President and Chief Executive Officer, HP Inc. 
Principle Location 
Environment 
Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to  environmental challenges  
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental  responsibility  and 
Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally  friendly technologies. 
Anti-corruption 
Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption,  including extortion and bribery. 
Advancing a circular and net zero  carbon economy 
Supply chain responsibility:  Environmental impact 
Our facilities 
Advancing a circular and net zero  carbon economy 
Products and solutions portfolio 
Supply chain responsibility:  Environmental impact 
Our facilities 
Advancing a circular and net zero  carbon economy 
Products and solutions portfolio 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
Supply chain responsibility 
United Nations Sustainable  Development Goals index 
HP supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We have existing programs that contribute to progress against 16 of the 17 goals  
and will continue to drive innovations that help achieve them. This table references sections of this report that relate to each goal. 
125  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms  everywhere 
HP s actions Community giving and  volunteerism 
Goal 5 Achieve gender equality and  empower all women and girls 
HP s actions Supply chain responsibility,  Diversity, equity, and inclusion 
Goal 9 Build resilient infrastructure,  promote sustainable industrialization  and foster innovation 
HP s actions Advancing a circular and  net zero carbon economy, Products and  solutions portfolio 
Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat  climate change and its impacts 
HP s actions Footprint, Supply chain  responsibility: Environmental impact:  GHG emissions, Our facilities: GHG  emissions 
Goal 17 Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development 
HP s actions HP supports the UN SDGs, the UN Global Compact, the Global Reporting Initiative,  and other global efforts to advance sustainable development.  
Goal 2 End hunger, achieve food security  and improved nutrition and promote  sustainable agriculture 
HP s actions No major programs at this  time 
Goal 6 Ensure access to water and  sanitation for all 
HP s actions Our facilities: Water, Supply  chain responsibility: Environmental  impact: Water 
Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and  among countries 
HP s actions Supplier diversity,  Community giving and volunteerism,  Global education programs 
Goal 14 Conserve and sustainably use  the oceans, seas and marine resource 
HP s actions Tackling ocean plastics 
Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote  well-being for all at all ages 
HP s actions Supply chain responsibility:  Health and safety, Our employees:  Health and safety, Wellbeing 
Goal 7 Ensure access to affordable,  reliable, sustainable and modern energy  for all 
HP s actions Renewable energy,  Products and solutions: Product energy  efficiency 
Goal 11 Make cities inclusive, safe,  resilient and sustainable 
HP s actions Community giving and  volunteerism 
Goal 15 Sustainably manage forests,  combat desertification, halt and reverse  land degradation, halt biodiversity loss 
HP s actions Paper and forestry  products, HP Sustainable Forests  Collaborative 
Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and quality  education for all and promote lifelong  learning 
HP s actions Global education programs,  Community giving and volunteerism 
Goal 8 Promote inclusive and sustainable  economic growth, employment and  decent work for all 
HP s actions Supply chain responsibility,  Community giving and volunteerism 
Goal 12 Ensure sustainable consumption  and production patterns 
HP s actions Advancing a circular and  net zero carbon economy, Products and  solutions portfolio 
Goal 16 Promote just, peaceful and  inclusive societies 
HP s actions Ethics and anti-corruption,  Human rights, Supply chain  responsibility 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board index 
This table contains and refers to information related to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Hardware Sustainability Accounting Standard. 
   EPEAT data for personal systems is for models registered worldwide and for printers is for models registered in the United States. ENERGY STAR data for personal systems (versions 8.0) is worldwide and for printers (version 3.0) is for products sold in the United  
    Other priority nonconformances and major nonconformances represent 3.1% and 96.9% of other nonconformances, respectively. 
126  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Topic Code Metric 2020 reporting 
Product Security TC-HW-230a.1 Description of approach to identifying and addressing   data security risks in products 
Employee Diversity   and Inclusion 
Product Lifecycle  Management 
Supply Chain  Management 
Materials Sourcing TC-HW-440a.1 Description of the management of risks associated with  the use of critical materials 
States. All data is for models shipped anytime during fiscal year 2020. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
TC-HW-330a.1 Percentage of gender and racial ethnic group  representation for (1) management, (2) technical staff,   and (3) all other employees 
TC-HW-410a.1 Percentage of products by revenue that contain IEC 62474  declarable substances 
TC-HW-410a.2 Percentage of eligible products, by revenue, meeting the  requirements for EPEAT  registration or equivalent 
TC-HW-410a.3 Percentage of eligible products, by revenue, meeting  ENERGY STAR  criteria 
C-HW-410a.4 Weight of end-of-life products and e-waste recovered,  percentage recycled 
TC-HW-430a.1 Percentage of Tier 1 supplier facilities audited in the RBA  Validated Audit Process (VAP) or equivalent, by (a) all  facilities and (b) high-risk facilities 
TC-HW-430a.2 Tier 1 suppliers  (1) nonconformance rate with the  RBA Validated Audit Process (VAP) or equivalent, and  (2) associated corrective action rate for (a) priority  non-conformances and (b) other nonconformances 
Cybersecurity 
Product security and privacy 
Diversity, equity, and inclusion 
Our employees: Data 
100% of HP products may contain small amounts of some chemicals on the IEC 62474 declarable substances list. HP is committed  to meeting all legal and regulatory requirements, and has gone beyond these requirements to proactively restrict substances of  concern. Any remaining uses of substances of concern in products are for applications that lack viable alternatives. All electronics  companies still have products claiming RoHS exemptions or using REACH candidate list substances when there is no viable  alternative. For example, 100% of electronics products still contain some amount of lead used in specialized applications that are  allowed under RoHS exemptions. See HP s REACH Article 33 Declarations and the Substances and Materials Requirements (HP  Standard 011-01) in the HP General Specification for the Environment for more detail. 
61% of models of HP personal systems shipped in 2020 were EPEAT registered. 88% of models of HP printers shipped in 2020 were  EPEAT registered.   
Product certifications and other information 
84% of models of HP personal systems shipped in 2020 were ENERGY STAR qualified. 93% of models of HP printers shipped in 2020  were ENERGY STAR qualified.  
Product certifications and other information 
During 2020, we recycled 106,000 tonnes of hardware, 10,600 tonnes of Original HP and Samsung Toner Cartridges, and   1,300 tonnes of Original HP Ink Cartridges. 
Product repair, reuse, and recycling 
In 2020, we completed 137 audits of production suppliers, product reuse and recycling vendors, and nonproduction suppliers,  as well as three other assessments of production suppliers. Travel and factory restrictions as well as office closures related to  COVID-19 decreased our ability to conduct these activities. During the year, 90% of production supplier audits were third-party  certified RBA Validated Assessment Program (VAP) audits. 
Supply chain responsibility: Performance monitoring and evaluation 
53 initial audits and full re-audits of production suppliers conducted in 2020 identified 10 immediate priority findings, equivalent to  0.19 per audit on average, and 294 other nonconformances,   equivalent to 5.5 per audit on average. 
Supply chain responsibility: Performance monitoring and evaluation 
Product repair, reuse, and recycling: Vendor audits 
HP does not currently report this information.  
Responsible minerals sourcing describes our program and performance related to conflict minerals, including tantalum and  tungsten, which are defined as critical materials by the U.S. National Research Council. 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures index 
HP considered recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in the development of this report.   
This index includes links to information about relevant disclosures. 
  CDP disclosures refer to HP s 2020 CDP Climate Change questionnaire responses. 
127  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Topic Disclosure focus area Disclosure Location  
Governance Disclose the organization s governance around climate-related  risks and opportunities.  
Strategy Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related  risks and opportunities on the organization s businesses,  strategy and financial planning. 
Risk management Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and  manages climate-related risks. 
Metrics and targets Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage  relevant climate-related risks and opportunities. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage  relevant climate-related risks and opportunities. 
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage  relevant climate-related risks and opportunities. 
a) Describe the board s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. 16 
b) Describe management s role in assessing and managing climate-related  risks and opportunities. 
a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization   has identified over the short, medium, and long term. 
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the  organization s businesses, strategy, and financial planning. 
c) Describe the resilience of the organization s strategy, taking into  consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2 C   or lower scenario. 
a) Describe the organization s processes for identifying and assessing  climate-related risks.  
b) Describe the organization s processes for managing climate-related risks. CDP C2.2a-b, C2.2d 
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate- related risks are integrated into the organization s overall risk management. 
a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related  risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process. 
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas  (GHG) emissions, and the related risks. 
c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related  risks and opportunities and performance against targets. 
CDP C1.1, C1.1a-b, C1.2 
CDP C1.2-a, C1.3a, C2.2b-c 
CDP C2.1, C2.2a-d, C2.3-a, C2.4-a 
CDP C2.2b-c, C2.3a, C2.4a, C2.5, C2.6, C3.1, C3.1c 
CDP C2.3a, C3.1a, C3.1d 
CDP C2.2b-c, C2.3a, C11.3 
CDP C2.2, C2.2b, C3.1c, C2.5 
CDP C1.3a, C2.3a, C2.4a, C4.1a-c, C4.2, C4.5a, C9.1, C11.3a 
CDP C2.2c, C2.3a, C4.1b, C5.1, C6.1-C6.3, C6.5, C6.10, C7.1-7.1a 
CDP C1.3a, C4.1- 4.1b, C4.2 
World Economic Forum International Business Council  Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics index 
In the development of this report, HP considered the core metrics and disclosures published in the World Economic Forum International Business Council (WEF IBC) white paper,   
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation. This index includes links to information about relevant disclosures. 
128  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Pillar Theme Sub-theme Location 
Principles of Governance Governing purpose Setting purpose 16, Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility  Committee charter 
Planet Climate change Greenhouse gas emissions 21, 53, 113, 127 
People Dignity and equality Diversity and inclusion (%) 55, 72 
Prosperity Employment and wealth generation Economic contribution 4, 5, 69, HP 2020 10-K (pages 42 43, 58, 86 90, 92 94) 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
Quality of governing body Governance body composition 16, Governance, HP Board of Directors, HP 2021 Proxy  Statement 
Stakeholder Engagement Material issues impacting stakeholders 15, 16, 122, 130 
Ethical behavior Anti-corruption 26, 27, Anti-corruption policy 
Risk and opportunity oversight Integrating risk and opportunity into business process 7, 16, 24, 34, 97, 122, 127, HP 2020 10-K 
Freshwater availability Water consumption and withdrawal in water-stressed areas  67 
Health and wellbeing Health and safety (%) 61, 63, 74, 132 
Skills for the future Training provided ( ,  ) 59, 60 
Innovation of better products and services Total R D expenses ( ) HP 2020 10-K (page 41) 
Community and social vitality Total tax paid HP 2020 10-K (pages 42 43, 86 90) 
Protected ethics advice and reporting mechanisms 26 
TCFD implementation 7, 21, 127 
Pay equality (%) 61, HP s approach to fair and equitable pay 
Risk for incidents of child, forced, or compulsory labor 37, 51, 133 
Financial investment contribution HP 2020 10-K (pages 30, 32, 61 62, 92 94) 
129  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Global Reporting Initiative index 
HP considered the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2016 Sustainability Reporting Standards (unless noted to be 2018 Standards) in the development of this report.   
This index includes links to information about relevant Disclosures. 
Disclosure Location 
GRI 102: General Disclosures 
Organizational profile 
102-1 Name of the organization 4 
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4, 104, HP 2020  10-K  
102-3 Location of headquarters 4 
102-4 Location of operations HP 2020 10-K,   HP Supplier List 
102-5 Ownership and legal form 4 , HP 2020 10-K 
102-6 Markets served HP 2020 10-K 
102-7 Scale of the organization 4, 5, 72,  HP 2020 10-K 
102-8 Information on employees   and other workers 
102-9 Supply chain 34 
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain HP 2020 10-K 
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 89 
102-12 External initiatives 13, 16, 29, 33,  41, 124 
102-13 Membership of associations  Affiliations and  memberships 
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3 
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4, 7, 122, 127 
Ethics and integrity 
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 118 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
A portion of the organization s work is performed by individuals other  than HP employees or other workers supervised by HP, including workers  employed or supervised by contractors. 
Disclosure Location 
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 26 
Governance 
102-18 Governance structure 16, Governance 
102-19 Delegating authority 16 
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 16 
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Governance 
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Governance 
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate governance  guidelines 
102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate governance  guidelines 
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 16 
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Contacting the board  
102-35 Remuneration policies HP 2021 Proxy Statement 
102-36 Process for determining remuneration  HP 2021 Proxy Statement 
Stakeholder engagement 
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 15 
102-41 Collective bargaining   agreements 
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 15 
In about half of the countries where HP has an employee presence, we  have employees who are represented by works councils or unions, and  or are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. As of October 31,  2020, this represented approximately 43% of our employees globally. 
16, Nominating,  Governance and Social  Responsibility Committee  charter 
130  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Disclosure Location 
102-43 Approach to stakeholder  engagement 
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 
Reporting practice 
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements HP 2020 10-K 
102-46 Defining report content and   topic Boundaries 
102-47 List of material topics 16, 122 
102-48 Restatements of information Noted in sections as appropriate. 
102-49 Changes in reporting 
102-50 Reporting period 116 
102-51 Date of most recent report June 2020 
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Feedback 
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance  with the GRI Standards 
102-55 GRI content index 129 
102-56 External assurance 119 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
Some forms of stakeholder engagement follow a set frequency, such  as our annual employee Voice Insight Action survey, yearly responses  to rating  ranking questionnaires, and supplier audits. Other forms of  engagement, such as responses to customer requests for information  about our Sustainable Impact performance, collaboration with NGOs  and industry peers on specific issues, and discussion with policymakers,  occur on an ad hoc basis. Examples are included throughout this report.  We consider input from customers, NGOs, employees, investors, and  others in the preparation of our annual Sustainable Impact Report. 
Our materiality assessment reflects the key topics and concerns that  have been raised through stakeholder engagement and various analysis.  This report describes how HP addresses those issues, including in some  cases through engagement with the relevant stakeholder groups. 
HP determined the boundary for each material issue in this report  based on input and review from executives and content experts. These  assessments considered the value chain phases in which the most  relevant impacts and opportunities occur. 
This HP 2020 Sustainable Impact Report includes in-depth information  on our approach and performance across the broad range of  environmental, social, and governance issues. The standalone Executive  Summary provides a high-level overview of our Sustainable Impact  strategy and progress, and vision for the future. 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards:   Core option. 
15, 116, 122 
  Although this GRI Standards Topic was not determined to be material in HP s materiality assessment, we recognize that it is  relevant to some stakeholders and we provide information about HP s programs and performance in this area.  
Disclosure Location 
Material Topics 
GRI 200 Economic Standards Series 
GRI 201: Economic Performance  
GRI 103: Management Approach 
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 4, 5, HP 2020 10-K 
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 127 
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 5, 11, 69, 76 
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
205-1 Operations assessed for risks  related to corruption 
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 27 
GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series 
GRI 301: Materials 
GRI 103: Management Approach  
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  HP 2020 10-K 
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach HP 2020 10-K 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 41, 69 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 41, 52, 76 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  26, 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 26 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26, Anti-corruption  Policy 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 88, 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 88 
Results of HP s internal assessments of corruption-related risks   are confidential. 
131  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Disclosure Location 
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 88 
301-2 Recycled input materials used 89 
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 84, 114 
GRI 302: Energy 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 75 
302-3 Energy intensity 75 
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 64 
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 87, 105 
GRI 303: Water  
GRI 103: Management Approach  
303-1 Water withdrawal by source 23, 53, 75 
303-3 Water recycled and reused 75 
GRI 305: Emissions 
GRI 103: Management Approach  
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 21 
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 21 
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 22, 53, 113 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 88, 113 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 64, 86, 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 63, 64, 86 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 75, 87, 105 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  20, 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 46, 66, HP water  accounting manual 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23, 53, 75 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  19, 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 19, 44, 63, 64, HP carbon  accounting manual 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 21, 44 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
  Although this GRI Standards Topic was not determined to be material in HP s materiality assessment, we recognize that it is  relevant to some stakeholders and we provide information about HP s programs and performance in this area.  
Disclosure Location 
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 21 
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 44, 64 
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 76 
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste  
GRI 103: Management Approach  
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 53, 68, 75 
306-3 Significant spills 
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment  
GRI 103: Management Approach  
308-1 New suppliers that were screened  using environmental criteria 
GRI 400 Social Standards Series 
GRI 401: Employment 
GRI 103: Management Approach  
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 46, 68, 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47, 68, 75 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  45, 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 35, 45, Our approach to a  sustainable supply chain 
103-3 Evaluation of the   management approach 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  122 
We apply the risk-prevention and management procedures of our  environmental, health, and safety management system to help prevent  unplanned releases at our facilities. In 2020, we experienced no  significant unplanned releases. 
More than 95% of HP production suppliers, by spend, have been  screened using environmental criteria. This includes new suppliers that  were onboarded during 2020.  
We determined that 93% of HP first-tier production suppliers, by spend,  had environmental management system (EMS) certification (e.g., ISO  14001) for manufacturing sites during 2020. Data represents review of  94% of HP production spend. The HP Supplier Code of Conduct requires  our suppliers to have an effective EMS for manufacturing sites, regardless  of third-party certification. We audit suppliers to this standard. 
46, 63, 68, Export  of Electronic Waste to  Developing Countries Policy 
132  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Disclosure Location 
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time  employees that are not provided to  temporary or part-time employees 
GRI 402: Labor Management Relations 
GRI 103: Management Approach  
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding  operational changes HP does not currently disclose this information. 
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 
GRI 103: Management Approach  
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 63, 74 
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 63 
403-3 Occupational health services 61 
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 64 
403-9 Work-related injuries  
GRI 404: Training and Education 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
103-2 The management approach and its components 55 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 55, HP s approach to fair  and equitable pay 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 59 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 59 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries  61, 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 61 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 74 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
This is not practical to report by significant locations of operations, given  variation by country. 
The types of injury HP recorded in calendar year 2020 included head   neck (16% of the total), hands wrists (29%), lower extremities (20%),  arms shoulders (20%), back (22%), and other (7%). Some injuries are  classified using multiple injury types. It is not practical to break down  the injury data that HP reports by employment contract (employees and  contractors that HP manages) or by gender. The occupational disease  rate at HP in calendar year 2020 was essentially zero. HP experienced  zero fatalities for the years reported (fiscal year 2016 and calendar years  2017 2020). HP does not report absentee rate.  
Disclosure Location 
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 60 
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 59 
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career   development reviews 
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
GRI 103: Management Approach  
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men HP s approach to fair and  equitable pay 
GRI 406: Non-discrimination 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  59 
103-2 The management approach   and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 59 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  55, 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 55 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 55, 72 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 28, 35, Our approach to a  sustainable supply chain 
Each year, HP leaders identify human capital development priorities  to help advance our business and human resource strategies. This  involves analyzing the capabilities and skills we need to deliver on  culture and talent development, business transformation, leadership  agility, employee engagement, and innovation. This needs assessment  is informed by data sources such as our employee engagement survey,  succession planning, and business performance metrics. Employees also  work with their managers to create annual personal development goals  that build on their strengths, improve performance, and progress their  careers. We track and measure employee development at a program and  audience level, with clear targets for both. We systematically evaluate  all formal development programs through our Learning Management  System, measuring improvements in employee performance and  business impact. 
55, 72, HP Board of  Directors, HP 2021 Proxy  Statement 
133  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Disclosure Location 
406-1 Incidents of discrimination   and corrective actions taken 
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which  the right to freedom of association and  collective bargaining may be at risk 
GRI 408: Child Labor 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
408-1 Operations and suppliers at  significant risk for incidents of child labor 
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 28, 35, Our approach to a  sustainable supply chain 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 50 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 28, 35, Our approach to a  sustainable supply chain 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  37, 122 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
HP discloses the rates of conformance in production supplier sites  audited, as well as the data needed to calculate the approximate number  of nonconformances. Due to confidentiality, HP does not report details  regarding specific incidents of discrimination during the reporting period.  
HP discloses the rates of conformance in production supplier sites  audited, as well as the data needed to calculate the approximate  number of nonconformances. We require suppliers to train workers to  understand their rights concerning collective bargaining, and to allow  workers to associate freely without fear of discrimination, reprisal,  intimidation, or harassment.  
HP discloses the rates of conformance in production supplier sites  audited, as well as the data needed to calculate the approximate number  of nonconformances. To support rights in this area, HP has controls to  meet student and young worker requirements. In China, no more than  20% of the direct labor supporting the manufacturing of HP products,  packaging, parts, components, subassemblies, and materials at any  given facility should consist of student workers at any point in time. We  track performance in this area through our KPI program.  
  Although this GRI Standards Topic was not determined to be material in HP s materiality assessment, we recognize that it is  relevant to some stakeholders and we provide information about HP s programs and performance in this area.  
Disclosure Location 
409-1 Operations and suppliers at  significant risk for incidents of forced or  compulsory labor 
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 
GRI 103: Management Approach 
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact  assessments 
GRI 413: Local Communities  
GRI 103: Management Approach  
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and  development programs 
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment  
GRI 103: Management Approach  
414-1 New suppliers that were   screened using social criteria 
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  28, 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 27, HP 2020 Human  Rights Update 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 15, 98, 122 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 69, 76, 98 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 35, 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 35, 47, Our approach to a  sustainable supply chain 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 52 
HP discloses the rates of conformance in production supplier sites audited,  as well as the data needed to calculate the approximate number of  nonconformances. See Combating forced labor for more detail about our  approach in this area.  
More than 95% of HP production suppliers, by spend, have been  screened using social criteria. This includes new suppliers that were  onboarded during 2020. 
28, 35, 37, 122, Our  approach to a sustainable  supply chain 
28, Human Rights Policy,  HP 2020 Human Rights  Update 
11, 13, 69, 89,  93, 98 
  Although this GRI Standards Topic was not determined to be material in HP s materiality assessment, we recognize that it is  relevant to some stakeholders and we provide information about HP s programs and performance in this area.  
134  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
Disclosure Location 
GRI 415: Public Policy  
GRI 103: Management Approach  
415-1 Political contributions 
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 
GRI 103: Management Approach  
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 96 
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 
GRI 103: Management Approach  
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses   of customer data 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33, 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 33, HP Political  Contributions Policy 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  96, 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 96 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 96 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 30, 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 30 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
33, HP Corporate Political  Contributions, HP Employee  PAC Contributions, U.S.  lobbying expenditures 
33, HP Political  Contributions Policy,  HP Employee PAC  Contributions, U.S. Lobbying  Expenditures 
  This includes issues determined to meet the materiality threshold for this report that are not already addressed   by the GRI Standards Topics in the index above. 
Disclosure Location 
Other material issues  
Corporate governance 
GRI 103: Management Approach  
Data and product security 
GRI 103: Management Approach  
Role of IT in society 
GRI 103: Management Approach  
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 16, 25, Governance,  HP 2021 Proxy Statement 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance, HP 2021 Proxy  Statement 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  30, 97, 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 30, 97 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31, 97 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 122 
103-2 The management approach and its components 69, 98 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 76 
Additional information about the data presented in this report is available upon request. 
1  As of October 31, 2020.  
6 This data does not include the following products or packaging for these products: commercial, industrial, or 3D  
7 Recycled content plastic in HP products is postconsumer. Recycled content plastic in HP packaging is a mix of   
8  Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the  
9  Data refers to the percentage of HP 2020 Voice Insight Action (VIA) employee survey respondents who strongly  
11 As of October 31, 2020. 
12 An industry standard for providing environmental information about products and product families. In 2020, HP  
Sustainable Impact 
Sustainable Impact strategy 
1  In 2020, we tracked  1.1 billion in new sales (total contract value) in which sustainability criteria were a known  
2 Zero waste operations: eliminate non-hazardous waste to landfill in all HP direct operations by 2025. Includes all HP  
3 Absolute reduction of Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions compared to 2019. Excludes non-HP paper consumed during  
4 Percentage of HP s total annual product and packaging content, by weight, that will come from recycled and  
5 HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging are derived from certified and recycled sources, with a preference  
135  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
printing products  scanners  personal systems accessories sold separately  spare parts  or the weight of ink and toner  in cartridges.  
pre-consumer and postconsumer. 
equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. 
agreed or agreed with each statement.  
provided ECO Declarations for product groups representing 94% of revenue. 
consideration and were supported actively by HP s Sustainability and Compliance organization and Commercial  Organization.  
owned and managed sites worldwide. Zero waste is defined by the UL or TRUE certification standard. 
product use. 
renewable materials and reused products and parts by 2030. 
for Forest Stewardship Council  (FSC ) certification. Packaging is the box that comes with the product and all paper  (including packaging and materials) inside the box. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
6 Fiber by weight will be 1) certified to rigorous third-party standards, 2) recycled or 3) balanced by forest restoration,  
7  Leadership  is defined as director level and up at HP. We expect that gender identity will remain a key topic in many  
8  Annually, HP employees fill out a survey called Voice Insight Action (VIA) to help us understand overall employee  
9  Labor-related human rights are defined as modern slavery, working hours, pay and safety. Assure based on  
10 Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a percentage of total plastic used in all HP personal systems, printer hardware, and  
11 Calculated as the percentage of primary plastic packaging (by weight) reduced per unit shipped. Excludes secondary  
12 Product use GHG emissions intensity describes the performance of our portfolio, taking into account changes to  
13 All HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging will be derived from certified and recycled sources by 2020,  
14 As of December 2020, 99% of HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging was derived from certified or recycled  
15 Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier production and product transportation suppliers  reported GHG  
16 This continues a goal from before the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, extending the  
protection, and other initiatives through HP s Forest Positive Framework. Paper does not include fiber-based  substrates for HP industrial presses not listed in HP Media Solutions Locator catalogues. 
parts of the world. In the future, HP may take in account of more data and those who identify as female will be counted  towards the 50 50 gender equality goal. 
engagement including their sense of belonging in the company. 
key performance metrics based on evidence and analysis of published disclosures, mandated data submittals,  certifications, audits, etc. 
print cartridges shipped during the reporting year. Total volume excludes brand-licensed products and after-market  hardware accessories. Total RCP includes postconsumer recycled plastic, closed-loop plastic, and ocean-bound  plastics used in HP products. Personal systems plastic is defined by EPEAT  eco-label criteria. Subject to relevant  restrictions on the use and distribution of materials destined for recycling and or recycled feedstocks. 
and tertiary packaging components. Includes HP personal systems and printer hardware packaging. Does not  include packaging for the following: Graphics Solutions hardware other than PageWide XL and DesignJet printers  3D  printing hardware  print supplies  refurbished products  and accessories such as third-party options, drop-in box, and  aftermarket options. 
product mix and business growth. HP product use GHG emissions intensity measures per unit GHG emissions during  anticipated product lifetime use. These values are then weighted by contribution of personal systems and printing  products to overall revenue in the current year. These emissions represent more than 99% of HP product units  shipped each year, including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing devices, workstations, displays, and  digital signage  HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, Scitex, and Jet Fusion 3D printers  and scanners. Although HP  updated its calculation methodology in 2020 for printing-related product use phase GHG emissions (see note     on  page 113), we continue to calculate this metric using the original methodology, for comparability with past years.  
with a preference for virgin fiber from certified sources of the Forest Stewardship Council  (FSC ). Packaging is the box  that comes with the product and all paper-based materials inside the box.  
sources. Packaging is the box that comes with the product and all paper-based materials inside the box. Packaging for  commercial, industrial, and 3D products, scanners, personal systems accessories, and spare parts are not included. 
emissions attributable to HP divided by HP s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business  productivity. Intensity is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease the impact of variance year over year  and highlight longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. 
goal to 2025. Includes data from suppliers associated with HP Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation business units. 
17 Updated from our prior goal to use 60% renewable electricity in our operations by 2025 and achieve 100% by 2035. 
18 Moving forward, this will be replaced by a new goal, once validated by the Science Based Targets initiative, which  
19 Progress through 2020 includes 77,800 factory workers in 2015, 45,700 in 2016, 119,900 in 2017, 12,000 in 2018,  
20 This data does not include participation in Responsible Business Alliance audits.  Participation in our supply chain  
21 Excludes new hires joining HP after April 1, 2020 (although all new hires are given 30 days to complete Integrity at   
22 The HP Foundation is a nonprofit, 501(c)3 organization. 
23 Includes valuation of employee volunteer hours, employee donations, HP Foundation match, and HP Foundation grants. 
1  Absolute reduction of Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions compared to 2019. Excludes non-HP paper consumed during  
2 Carbon and water footprint data presented in this section related to our suppliers are calculated using product life  
Carbon and climate impact 
1  These product transportation data are based on product life cycle assessment (LCA)-based estimates. They use a  
1  The 11% decrease in our water footprint in 2020 compared to 2019, which contrasts a 4% decrease in our carbon  
Integrity and human rights 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
1  Excludes new hires joining HP after April 1, 2020 (although all new hires are given 30 days to complete Integrity at HP  
136  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
supports our broader goal to achieve carbon neutral HP operations by 2025. 
11,000 in 2019, and 46,000 in 2020. Prior to 2020, data included production supplier workers only. In 2020, we  expanded the scope of our program to also include nonproduction supplier workers and workers at HP-controlled  manufacturing facilities. Total does not equal sum of data for each year due to rounding. 
sustainability programs  is quantified by those programs that go beyond audits to build supplier capabilities to meet  our standards. This includes deep-dive assessment, weekly reporting of labor metrics, procurement engagement  through our supplier Sustainability Scorecard, and in-depth coaching and workshops tailored to supplier risks. 
HP New Hire training as part of their mandatory onboarding process). 
product use. 
cycle assessment-based estimates for materials extraction through manufacturing and product transportation.  Supply chain GHG emissions and water withdrawal data presented on page 53 are based on a different  methodology. 
combination of HP-specific and industry data, and include additional upstream and downstream transport related  to our products. This data may differ from data reported by product transportation suppliers that HP contracts to  deliver our products, as presented on pages 46 and 53. The decrease from 2019 to 2020 resulted from reduced  shipments of imaging and printing devices and, despite a greater volume, a lighter average weight of personal  systems devices. 2020 data reflect a typical mix of transport modes and do not fully reflect the unusual increase in air  freight shipments due to COVID-19. HP is updating its product LCA tools to more fully reflect product transport mode  shifts and supplier GHG emissions. 
footprint during that period, reflects differences in the two calculation methodologies related to the supply chain  phase. Details are available in the HP water accounting manual and the HP carbon accounting manual.  
New Hire training as part of their mandatory onboarding process). 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
Human rights 
1  Excludes new hires joining HP after April 1, 2020 (although all new hires are given 30 days to complete Integrity at HP  
2 Corporate functions evaluated included Environment, Health, and Safety  Ethics and Compliance Office  Global Indirect  
3 Salient human rights risks are risks associated with our activities or business relationships that are severe in potential  
1  Published May 2018. https:  ec.europa.eu newsroom article29 item-detail.cfm?item id 613841 
3 A cybersecurity event requires external disclosure if compelled by applicable laws or regulations. 
4 HP cybersecurity baselines align with industry best practices recognized by ISACA, (ISC)2, ISSA, NIST, SANS, and others. 
5 HP s ISO 27001 certifications in 2020 included: Customer Support Break Fix (Europe, Middle East, and Africa region)   
Supply chain responsibility 
1  HP uses the terms  production suppliers,   product transportation suppliers,  and  nonproduction suppliers   
2 In 2020, requirements related to eco labels supported approximately  7 billion in new sales  accessibility more than  
3 Progress through 2020 includes: 77,800 factory workers in 2015  45,700 in 2016  119,900 in 2017  12,000 in 2018   
4 This data does not include participation in RBA audits.  Participation in our supply chain sustainability programs   
New Hire training as part of their mandatory onboarding process). 
Procurement  Human Resources  Privacy  Supply Chain Responsibility  and World Technical Regulations. 
impact, reasonably likely to occur, and difficult to remediate. 
Customer Support Break Fix (APJ region)  Customer Service Life Cycle Solutions (Bentonville, AR)  DaaS Remote  Monitoring   Management Services (within DaaS Proactive Management with TechPulse)  Indigo Presses, Servers,  and Software Solutions  India Sales Carry-In Support  MPS Remote Monitoring and Management  PSGO Dynamic  Configuration Service  HP Inc. UK Limited  and PSGO Image Load Service. 
throughout this report.  Production suppliers  provide materials and components for our product manufacturing  and also assemble HP products, and are the primary focus of our HP Supplier Code of Conduct audits, assessments,  KPI program, Sustainability Scorecard, and capability-building initiatives.  Product transportation suppliers  provide  services for the shipping and delivery of HP products. Learn more in Supply chain responsibility: Environmental impact.   Nonproduction suppliers  provide goods and services that do not go into the production of HP products (such as  staffing, telecommunications, and travel). These suppliers are a significant focus of our supplier diversity efforts. 
 6 billion in retained, existing, and new sales  human rights more than  6 billion in potential, existing, and new sales   and supply chain responsibility more than  2 billion in retained, existing, and new sales. In most cases, customer  purchasing requirements include multiple criteria, so these numbers should not be totaled.  
11,000 in 2019  and 46,000 in 2020. Prior to 2020, data included production supplier workers only. In 2020, we  expanded the scope of our program to also include nonproduction supplier workers and workers at HP-controlled  manufacturing facilities. Total does not equal sum of data for each year due to rounding.  
is quantified by those programs that go beyond audits to build supplier capabilities to meet our standards. This  includes deep-dive assessment, weekly reporting of labor metrics, procurement engagement through our supplier  Sustainability Scorecard, and in-depth coaching and workshops tailored to supplier risks. 
1  The term  forced labor  refers to situations in which people are coerced to work against their will, either overtly  
2 We use these terms interchangeably when describing HP s existing programs and policies. 
Responsible minerals sourcing 
1   Conflict minerals  refers to the mineral precursors of the metals tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold (3TG) as defined  
Supplier diversity 
1  Data is for the 12 months ending September 30 of the year noted. Figures are for purchases in the United States and  
2 HP s allocatable indirect spend is calculated based on suppliers  spending with diverse suppliers and their dollar  
3 The categories  large, B-BBEE compliant businesses  and  small and medium-sized businesses  may overlap with  
Environmental impact 
1  See HP Announces Supply Chain Goals to Enhance Environmental and Social Impact. 
2 Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier production and product transportation suppliers  reported GHG  
3 This continues a goal from before the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, extending the  
4 These are the total GHG emissions reductions and financial savings reported by suppliers through CDP, not amounts  
5 Due to COVID-19, in limited cases SmartWay partners were not available during 2020. 
Performance monitoring and evaluation 
1  Segments do not add up to 100% due to rounding. 
2 These include child labor, forced labor, severe forms of discrimination, health and safety issues posing immediate  
137  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
through violence or intimidation, or by more subtle means such as accumulated debt, retention of identity papers,  and threats of denunciation. HP forbids any forced, bonded, or indentured labor, involuntary prison labor, slavery, or  trafficking of persons within its supply chain. 
in the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rule requiring a conflict minerals disclosure. Revenue from  mining these minerals in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries has been widely linked to  funding for groups engaged in extreme violence and human rights atrocities. 
Puerto Rico from U.S.-based businesses. Suppliers are categorized as minority-owned or women-owned, not both.  These categories include all sizes of businesses. 
volume of HP s business compared to their total revenue. 
firms with at least 51% Black ownership, firms with at least 30% Black women ownership, youth-owned firms,  and firms owned by people with disabilities. As a result, spending in some cases may be counted more than once.  Percentage changes noted are compared to 2019 and based on South African Rand. 
emissions attributable to HP divided by HP s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business  productivity. Intensity is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease the impact of variance year over year  and highlight longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. 
goal to 2025. Includes data from suppliers associated with HP Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation business units. 
attributable to HP. 
danger to life or risk of serious injury, and perceived violation of environmental laws posing serious and immediate  harm to the community. We take such findings very seriously, and require suppliers to cease all related practices and  report corrective actions taken within 30 days of the original audit. Recruitment fees must be reimbursed within 90  days from discovery and are verified by an on-site inspection within 180 days from discovery. We follow up closely  to ensure that all required corrective actions are completed, and visit sites to confirm resolution. Immediate priority  findings do not necessarily involve termination of the supplier  we work with suppliers as appropriate to improve their  performance and worker conditions in these areas. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
3 Immediate priority findings (10 in 2020) include child labor, forced labor, severe forms of discrimination, health and  
Operations 
Our employees 
1  As of October 31, 2020. 
2 Prior to the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company. 
4 As of October 31, 2020. 
5  Leadership  is defined as director level and up at HP. We expect that gender identity will remain a key topic in many  
6 As of February 2021. 
7 The value 74% for 2019 is restated from 75% in the HP 2019 Sustainable Impact Report. This reflects a slightly  
8  Estimate is based on 1.03 million hours of formal organized learning, 0.54 million hours of self-directed learning, and  
9  During calendar year 2020, HP documented 55 recordable incidents, 32 lost workday cases, and 1,167 lost workdays. 
Our facilities 
1  Complex locations include sites above a certain size with research and development, production, or manufacturing  
2 About GHG emissions data:   
3 NEWater (ultra-purified wastewater used in manufacturing operations, landscaping, and plumbing in Singapore) is  
safety issues posing immediate danger to life or risk of serious injury, and perceived violation of environmental  laws posing serious and immediate harm to the community. In prior years, we reported non-immediate priority  nonconformances and major nonconformances together as major nonconformances. Starting in 2020, to more fully  align with RBA Protocol 6.0 definitions, HP began distinguishing non-immediate priority nonconformances from major  nonconformances and referring to those as  other nonconformances.  In 2020, the 294 other nonconformances  identified included all non-immediate priority nonconformances (3.1% of the total) and all major nonconformances  (96.9% of the total), as defined by the RBA Protocol 6.0. 
parts of the world. In the future, HP may take in account of more data and those who identify as female will be counted  towards the 50 50 gender equality goal. 
updated calculation methodology for 2020 that was applied retroactively.  
more than 0.13 million hours of manufacturing and technology training. 
activities  sites with chemical lab operations  and sites with elevated risk due to regulatory reasons, such as placement  in countries where management can be held personally liable for injuries. 
This report includes Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions data from HP s operations, transportation fleet, and employee  business travel, calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Business Council for Sustainable  Development (WBCSD) and World Resources Institute (WRI). See the HP 2020 carbon footprint for more details and an  overview of emissions across the value chain.  
Data in this section for 2015 2020 uses the market-based method. In the data summary, we also include 2016 2020  data using the location-based method. See note   on page 22 for additional detail. 
currently our only reused source. 
  Scope 1 emissions include those from the direct use of natural gas, diesel fuel, refrigerants, and PFCs in operations  
  Scope 2 emissions are primarily from purchased electricity used in HP s operational real estate.    Scope 3 emissions reported in this section result from employee business travel by commercial airlines and from  
and from fuel used by HP s transportation fleet.  
commuting.  
4 Beginning in 2019, HP directly tracks nonhazardous waste data for the company s highest energy-consuming sites  
5 Zero waste operations: eliminate nonhazardous waste to landfill in all HP direct operations by 2025. Includes all HP  
Community giving and volunteerism 
1  The HP Foundation is a nonprofit, 501(c)3 organization. 
2 Includes valuation of employee volunteer hours, employee donations, HP Foundation match, and HP Foundation grants. 
3 Hourly rate is based on type of volunteering:  195 hour for board, service corp, pro bono, and skills based   25.43  
Products and solutions 
Advancing a circular and net zero carbon economy 
1  Percentage of HP s total annual product and packaging content, by weight, that will come from recycled and  
2 Percentage of HP s total annual product and packaging content, by weight, that comes from recycled and renewable  
3 Recycled content plastic in HP products is postconsumer. Recycled content plastic in HP packaging is a mix of   
4 We conduct product carbon footprints (PCFs), a subset of life cycle assessment, of business HP desktops, notebooks,  
5 In 2020, requirements related to eco labels supported approximately  7 billion in new sales  accessibility more than  
6 Printing inks can be considered a toy component. It is the obligation of the toy manufacturer to classify the item  
7 Or as otherwise required by law. 
8  Moderately water-resistant with Original HP Bright Office Inks. Performance varies based on printer and print profile.  
9  HP offers recycling of non-HP devices when replaced by HP equipment. 
10 Natural Capital Partners, The CarbonNeutral Protocol, 2020 edition, https:  www.carbonneutral.com the- 
138  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
globally (22 in 2020) that account for 81% of HP s operational waste. These sites provide a representative sample of  the main types of facilities in our portfolio from across the regions where we operate. 
owned and managed sites worldwide. Zero waste is defined by the UL or TRUE certification standard.  
hour for hands-on and undetermined. Valuation of non-U.S. volunteering hours is adjusted using World Bank data for  purchasing power differences across countries. 
renewable materials and reused products and parts by 2030. 
materials and reused products and parts. 2020 data does not include the following products or packaging for these  products: commercial, industrial, or 3D printing products  scanners  personal systems accessories sold separately   spare parts  or the weight of ink and toner in cartridges.  
pre-consumer and postconsumer. 
tablets, workstations, thin clients, all-in-one computers, and displays to better understand performance of individual  products and our overall portfolio. These estimate total GHG emissions associated with a product over its lifetime  and include emissions from materials extraction, manufacturing, distribution, use, and end-of-life management. To  assess and report our complete personal systems product carbon footprint, we extrapolate these results to cover  99% of overall personal systems product sales (by unit and by revenue) during the reporting year. 
 6 billion in retained, existing, and new sales  human rights more than  6 billion in potential, existing, and new sales   and supply chain responsibility more than  2 billion in retained, existing, and new sales. In most cases, customer  purchasing requirements include multiple criteria, so these numbers should not be totaled. 
(including all components) for sale as a toy. HP 832, 873, 872, 882, and 886 Latex Inks have been tested and  demonstrated compliance to the following toy safety methods and protocols: EN 71-3, EN 71-9, ASTM F963-17, US 16  CFR 1303, US 16 CFR 1307, SOR 2011-17, and SOR 2018-83. HP does not recommend using the inks for toys intended  to target children under the age of 3 years. 
Water resistance testing by HP Image Permanence Lab on a range of HP media and follows ISO 18935 method. For  more information, see HPLFMedia.com printpermanence. 
carbonneutral-protocol. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
11 Refers to the emissions from the HP-branded fleet over the Term of the Managed Print Service. 
12 Life cycle assessments are verified by an independent third party to conform to ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 and  
13 HP Managed Print Service compared with traditional transactional business model for HP LaserJet Enterprise-class  
15 Typical of those reported by leading industry analysts and HP client engagements. Estimated energy and paper  
16 HP Carbon Neutral Service is certified to the CarbonNeutral Protocol. 
17 Based on plan usage, Internet connection to eligible HP printer, valid credit debit card, email address, and delivery  
18 Availability varies due to local postal regulations. 
19 Based on monthly subscription cost using only all pages in plan vs. cost per page of most color inkjet printers    
20 Compared with non-subscription purchase and distribution of the same Original HP Ink Cartridges in stores in  
21 Availability varies due to local postal regulations. Number of countries is as of April 2021. 
22 This is the number of countries or territories where HP offers hardware recycling and or Original HP Ink Cartridge  
23 These include child labor, forced labor, severe forms of discrimination, health and safety issues posing immediate  
24 The average energy consumption of HP products was estimated annually between 2010 and 2020 using high-volume  
25 HP calculations based on Energy Star  normalized TEC data comparing the HP LaserJet 200-500 series. https:   
26 From 2012 through 2020. 
are used by HP to understand the total carbon footprint for HP printing and imaging devices, paper, and supplies.  Using this data, along with the information unique to each customer, we calculate the total carbon emissions for a  customer s fleet. Data is third-party verified throughout the process and the HP Carbon Neutral Service is certified to  the CarbonNeutral Protocol. 
printers. See https:  h20195.www2.hp.com v2 GetDocument.aspx?docname c06646300 for more information. 
savings based on analysis of select HP Managed Print Service customers  imaging and printing operations using data  gathered on devices and paper consumption and comparing with post-MPS actuals or projections. Results depend on  unique business environments, the way HP products and services are used, and other factors. Overall printing costs  are unique to each company and should not be relied on for savings customers may achieve. 
service in your geographic area. 
 399 USD. Color inkjet printers are selected by market share of IDC CYQ1 2019 Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker Final  release. Standard cartridge CPP is as per the Gap Intelligence Ink Monthly (5 12 2019) 201905Wk2 report. 
North America and Europe. Based on a 2020 life cycle assessment performed by Four Elements Consulting and  commissioned by HP. 
recycling and or Original HP and Samsung Toner Cartridge recycling. 
danger to life or risk of serious injury, and perceived violation of environmental laws posing serious and immediate  harm to the community. We take such findings very seriously, and require suppliers to cease all related practices and  report corrective actions taken within 30 days of the original audit. Recruitment fees must be reimbursed within 90  days from discovery and are verified by an on-site inspection within 180 days from discovery. We follow up closely  to ensure that all required corrective actions are completed, and visit sites to confirm resolution. Immediate priority  findings do not necessarily involve termination of the supplier  we work with suppliers as appropriate to improve their  performance and worker conditions in these areas. 
product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume personal systems product lines  include notebook and desktop computers, tablets, all-in-ones, workstations, thin clients, and displays. 
h20195.www2.hp.com v2 GetDocument.aspx?docname 4AA7-8457ENW. 
27 Product use GHG emissions intensity describes the performance of our portfolio, taking into account changes to  
28 This data does not include the following products or packaging for these products: commercial, industrial, or 3D  
29 Available for HP Jet Fusion 5200 Series 3D Printing Solutions. 
30 Based on internal HP testing, May 2020. HP Jet Fusion 3D Printing Solutions using HP 3D High Reusability PP enabled  
31 Available for HP Jet Fusion 4200 Series 3D Printing Solutions. 
32 Based on published specifications as of September 2020. HP Jet Fusion 3D Printing Solutions using HP 3D High  
33 This is the number of countries or territories where HP offers hardware recycling and or Original HP Ink Cartridge  
34 Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a percentage of total plastic used in all HP personal systems, printer hardware, and  
35 100% of Original HP Toner Cartridges contain between 1 75% postconsumer or post-industrial recycled content. Does  
36 The HP Eco-Carton Ink Cartridge outer carton is 100% recyclable through local cardboard paper programs. Inner  
37 CO2e reduction based on moving from plastic ink cartridge to cardboard HP Eco-Carton Ink Cartridge, with annual  
38 All HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging will be derived from certified and recycled sources by 2020,  
39 As of December 2020, 99% of HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging was derived from certified or recycled  
139  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
product mix and business growth. HP product use GHG emissions intensity measures per unit GHG emissions during  anticipated product lifetime use. These values are then weighted by contribution of personal systems and printing  products to overall revenue in the current year. These emissions represent more than 99% of HP product units  shipped each year, including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing devices, workstations, displays, and  digital signage  HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, Scitex, and Jet Fusion 3D printers  and scanners. Although HP  updated its calculation methodology in 2020 for printing-related product use phase GHG emissions (see note     on  page 113), we continue to calculate this metric using the original methodology, for comparability with past years. 
printing products  scanners  personal systems accessories sold separately  spare parts  or the weight of ink and toner  in cartridges. 
by BASF provide up to 100% powder reusability ratio, producing functional parts batch after batch. For testing,  material is aged in real printing conditions and reclaimed powder is tracked by generations (worst case for reusability).  Parts are then made from each subsequent generation and tested for mechanical properties and accuracy showing no  degradation of properties up to three generations of use. 
Reusability TPA enabled by Evonik provide up to 17% lower printed part weight when compared to common powder- based thermoplastic elastomers printed under similar conditions. 
recycling and or Original HP Toner Cartridge recycling. 
print cartridges shipped during the reporting year. Total volume excludes brand-licensed products and after-market  hardware accessories. Total RCP includes postconsumer recycled plastic, closed-loop plastic, and ocean-bound  plastics used in HP products. Personal systems plastic is defined by EPEAT  eco-label criteria. Subject to relevant  restrictions on the use and distribution of materials destined for recycling and or recycled feedstocks. 
not include toner bottles. See hp.com go TonerRecycledContent for list. More than 85% of Original HP Ink Cartridges  contain between 4 75% recycled plastic. Does not include ink bottles and other products not listed. See hp.com go  InkRecycledContent for list. 
materials including the ink bag are 55% recyclable and can be returned free of charge to the HP Planet Partners program  for reprocessing of plastic parts. None of these materials returned to HP Planet Partners will be sent to landfill. For  take-back of ink bag printhead prints, visit http:  www.hp.com recycle to see how to participate and for HP Planet  Partners program availability  program may not be available in your jurisdiction. 
manufacturing savings of 291 tonnes and transport savings of 8 tonnes.  
with a preference for virgin fiber from certified sources of the Forest Stewardship Council  (FSC ). Packaging is the box  that comes with the product and all paper-based materials inside the box. 
sources. Packaging is the box that comes with the product and all paper-based materials inside the box. Packaging for  commercial, industrial, and 3D products, scanners, personal systems accessories, and spare parts are not included. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
41 Per HP s definition of certified wood-based products, a certification label must be displayed on the pack. On average,  
42 Fiber by weight will be 1) certified to rigorous third-party standards, 2) recycled or 3) balanced by forest restoration,  
44 Calculated as the percentage of primary plastic packaging (by weight) reduced per unit shipped. Excludes secondary  
45 Avoidance, reductions, and savings data is based on comparisons of current and prior generations of packaging, either  
46 As of December 2020, 99% of HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging was derived from certified or recycled  
47 HP Forest Positive Framework goes beyond existing HP sustainable fiber sourcing programs. It includes NGO  
Product responsibility 
1  An HP printing system consists of an HP printer, paper, and Original HP supply. Blue Angel DE-UZ 205 emissions  
2 Feb 2021 WKI Blue Angel Indoor Air Quality study of 15 non-HP cartridge brands purchased in APJ region,  
3 Printing inks can be considered a toy component. It is the obligation of the toy manufacturer to classify the item  
4  World s most secure and manageable PC  is based on HP s unique and comprehensive security capabilities at no  
less than 1% of HP papers annually by weight is unlabeled due to the incomplete chain of custody for some low- volume products. To avoid deforestation, all of HP paper by weight originates from certified paper stock, and or  certified fiber, and or wood that meets the definition of FSC controlled wood. In addition, on average less than 1% of  HP paper annually by weight may be unlabeled certified due to obsolete or lingering regional inventories. Recycled  fiber for paper products is included in the FSC -certified volume. 
protection, and other initiatives through HP s Forest Positive Framework. Paper does not include fiber-based  substrates for HP industrial presses not listed in HP Media Solutions Locator catalogues.  
and tertiary packaging components. Includes HP personal systems and printer hardware packaging. Does not  include packaging for the following: Graphics Solutions hardware other than PageWide XL and DesignJet printers  3D  printing hardware  print supplies  refurbished products  and accessories such as third-party options, drop in box, and  aftermarket options. 
for the same or comparable products. Savings and reductions may relate to the fabrication phase of the packaging life  cycle (including materials extraction and processing) as well as packaging end of life. 
sources. Packaging is the box that comes with the product and all paper-based materials inside the box. Packaging for  commercial, industrial, and 3D products, scanners, personal systems accessories, and spare parts are not included. 
partnerships targeted to protect forests, improve responsible forest management, and help develop Science Based  Targets (SBT) for forests. Our vision is that printing with HP will protect forests regardless of what brand of paper  customers use. This is applicable to the entire installed base of HP Consumer printers. 
criteria or earlier versions of criteria applicable when printing system launched. 
commissioned by HP. See HP.com go IAQnonhpAPJ2021. Nov 2019 WKI Blue Angel Indoor Air Quality study,  commissioned by HP, in compliance with DE-UZ 205: 21 imitation and five remanufactured toner cartridge brands  compatible with HP Color LaserJet Pro MFP M477fdw (sku  CF410A, 411A, 412A, 413A) purchased in EMEA, LA and  NA regions. See HP.com go IAQnonhpWKI2019. Non-HP remanufactured cartridges: Spent used HP or imitation  cartridges that are disassembled, some parts replaced, then refilled with toner. All parts and toner used are supplied  by aftermarket vendors. Imitation cartridges: Newly manufactured cartridges with parts that are not optimized for HP  devices. These use non-HP parts and toner and may violate patent holders  intellectual property rights. 
(including all components) for sale as a toy. HP 832, 873, 872, 882, and 886 Latex Inks have been tested and  demonstrated compliance to the following toy safety methods and protocols: EN 71-3, EN 71-9, ASTM F963-17, US 16  CFR 1303, US 16 CFR 1307, SOR 2011-17, and SOR 2018-83. HP does not recommend using the inks for toys intended  to target children under the age of 3 years. 
additional cost and HP s Manageability Integration Kit s management of every aspect of a PC including hardware, BIOS  and software management using Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager on HP Elite PCs with Windows and  8th Gen and higher Intel  processors or AMD Ryzen  4000 processors and higher  HP ProDesk 600 G6 with Intel  10th  Gen and higher processors  and HP ProBook 600 with AMD Ryzen  4000 or Intel  11th Gen processors and higher. 
5 Based on HP s internal analysis of isolation backed, deep learning endpoint security services including SaaS and  
6 HP acquired Bromium in September 2019. 
7 Based on HP s internal analysis of unique and comprehensive capabilities among Application Isolation and  
8  HP s most advanced embedded security features are available on HP Enterprise and HP Managed devices with HP  
Social impact 
1  http:  uis.unesco.org en topic out-school-children-and-youth 
2 https:  www.unicef.org press-releases covid-19-least-third-worlds-schoolchildren-unable-access-remote- 
3 Direct beneficiaries are the number of people who visited a WOW vehicle during the year. This is different than the data  
4 HP internal survey of 442 IT decision-makers in the United States, Japan, and the UK, April 2020. 
5 Select household wipes can be safely used to clean HP Elite and Workstation PCs up to 1,000 wipes: See wipe  
6 Select HP Healthcare Edition products have been tested with Clorox Healthcare  Bleach Germicidal Wipes and Clorox  
7 HP JetAdvantage Security Manager must be purchased separately. For details, see hp.com go securitymanager. 
8  In 2020, requirements related to eco labels supported approximately  7 billion in new sales  accessibility more than  
Products and solutions portfolio 
1  Applies to HP PCs, Workstations and Displays manufactured after January 2019. Based on most Gold and Silver  
3 Pavilion is our first consumer notebook product line with ocean-bound plastics. 
140  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
managed services. Most advanced based on application isolation and deep learning endpoint protection on Windows  10 PCs as of March 2020. 
Containment security solutions. Requires Microsoft Windows 8 or 10. Microsoft Word, Excel, or PowerPoint protection  requires an Office license. Adobe PDF protection requires Adobe Acrobat Reader. 
FutureSmart firmware 4.5 or above. Claim based on HP review of 2019 published features of competitive in-class  printers. Only HP offers a combination of security features to automatically detect, stop, and recover from attacks with  a self-healing reboot, in alignment with NIST SP 800-193 guidelines for device cyber resiliency. For a list of compatible  products, visit: hp.com go PrintersThatProtect. For more information, visit: hp.com go PrinterSecurityClaims. 
learning-during 
reported in prior years, which included direct beneficiaries as well as indirect beneficiaries (the total number of people  who had access to a WOW vehicle during the year). Only direct beneficiaries are included in progress against our goal  to enable better learning outcomes for 100 million people by 2025, since the beginning of 2015. 
manufacturer s instructions for disinfecting and the HP cleaning guide for HP Elite-tested wipe solutions at How to  Clean Your HP Device with Approved Disinfecting Wipes. 
Healthcare  Hydrogen Peroxide Cleaner Disinfectant Wipes: HP EliteBook 840 G6 Healthcare Edition, HP EliteOne  800 G5 Healthcare Edition, HP EliteBook 840 G5 Healthcare Edition, HP EliteOne 800 G4 Healthcare Edition, HP  Healthcare Edition HC270cr Clinical Review Display, HP Healthcare Edition HC271 and 271p Clinical Review Displays,  and HP Healthcare Edition HC241 and 241p Clinical Review Displays. Solution tested as of February 2018. Chemical  composition is subject to change. Tested to simulate up to 10,000 wipes with germicidal towelettes over a three-year  period. See user guide for cleaning instructions and wipe manufacturer s disinfecting guidance. Repeated use of these  germicidal wipes may cause some cosmetic changes to the product. 
 6 billion in retained, existing, and new sales  human rights more than  6 billion in potential, existing, and new sales   and supply chain responsibility more than  2 billion in retained, existing, and new sales. In most cases, customer  purchasing requirements include multiple criteria, so these numbers should not be totaled. 
EPEAT  registrations by meeting all required criteria and achieving 50 74% of the optional points for EPEAT Silver and  75 100% of the optional points for EPEAT Gold according to IEEE 1680.1-2018 EPEAT. Status varies by country. Visit  www.epeat.net for more information.  
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 
20 Original HP Ink integrated printhead cartridges only. UL 2809 Environmental Claim Validation Procedure, see  
4 As defined by the IEEE 1680.1 2018 EPEAT standard. Data are fiscal year 2020. 
5 As of January 2021.  
6 As of February 2021. 
7 Based on HP consumer and commercial PCs and Displays shipped in 2020. 100% renewable electricity achieved by  
8   World s most secure and manageable PC  is based on HP s unique and comprehensive security capabilities at no  
9  Select household wipes can be safely used to clean HP Elite and Workstation PCs up to 1,000 wipes: See wipe  
10 Notebook speaker enclosure component made with 5% ocean-bound plastic as of March 2020. 
11 Based on US EPEAT registration according to IEEE 1680.1-2018 EPEAT. Status varies by country. Visit www.epeat.net  
12 External power supplies, power cords, cables and peripherals (unless otherwise stated) are not Low Halogen. Service  
13 Based on HP internal analysis of ISV certified mobile workstations as of April 2020. Speaker enclosure component  
14 HP analysis of PC laptop keyboards currently in market as of October 2020. Keyboard scissors manufactured using  
15 Based on HP s internal analysis as of December 2020. 92k recycled plastic bottles consumed, based on HP s projected  
16 100% outer box packaging made from sustainably sourced certified and recycled fibers. Fiber cushions made from  
17 Based on results of third-party (WSP) research for HP of OEM MPS providers with carbon neutral offers as of June  
18 HP Forest Positive Framework goes beyond existing HP sustainable fiber sourcing programs. It includes NGO  
19 Natural Capital Partners, The CarbonNeutral Protocol, 2020 edition, carbonneutral.com the-carbonneutral-protocol. 
ul.com news hp-receives-first-recycled-content-validation-ocean-bound-plastics-ul. HP-commissioned Aug 2020  InfoTrends report verifies HP is the only in-class printer OEM with ink cartridges containing recycled ocean-bound  plastic validated by UL 2809. See keypointintelligence.com HPPlanetPartners. 
purchasing both Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) and International Renewable Energy Credits (I-RECs) as defined by  EPEAT . 
additional cost and HP s Manageability Integration Kit s management of every aspect of a PC including hardware, BIOS  and software management using Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager on HP Elite PCs with Windows and  8th Gen and higher Intel  processors or AMD Ryzen  4000 processors and higher  HP ProDesk 600 G6 with Intel  10th  Gen and higher processors  and HP ProBook 600 with AMD Ryzen  4000 or Intel  11th Gen processors and higher.  
manufacturer s instructions for disinfecting and the HP cleaning guide for HP Elite-tested wipe solutions at How to  Clean Your HP Device with Approved Disinfecting Wipes. 
for more information. Countries: Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Japan. Mexico,  Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Taiwan, United Kingdom, United States. 
parts obtained after purchase may not be Low Halogen. 
made with 5% ocean-bound plastic.  
renewable attribute polymer produced from 100% bio-feedstock from waste according to ISCC Plus mass balance  certification. 
shipment volumes of Pavilion clamshell PC products annually. Manufactured recycled ocean-bound plastic material in  product speaker enclosures. Calculation based on grams per product (using 12.7 grams per 16.9 ounce  single serve   bottled water container) multiplied by projected shipment volumes 12.7 grams. 
100% recycled wood fiber and organic material. Any plastic cushions are made from  90% recycled plastic. Excludes  plastic bags and plastic foam sheeting.  
2020.  Comprehensive  means the planet s only globally certified carbon neutral MPS service that covers life cycle  emissions due to raw material extraction  manufacturing  transportation  use of HP printers, Original HP supplies, and  paper  and end of service. 
partnerships targeted to protect forests, improve responsible forest management and help develop science-based  targets for forests. Our vision is that printing with HP will protect forests regardless of what brand of paper customers  use. This is applicable to the entire installed base of HP Consumer printers. 
21 Original HP Ink Integrated Printhead Cartridges contain recycled plastic from upcycled water bottles. Individual ink  
22 HP s most advanced embedded security features are available on HP Enterprise and HP Managed devices with HP  
23 Compared to majority of competing in-class OEM ink and laser printer supply recycling programs. Criteria: size, reach,  
24 https:  www8.hp.com us en printers hp-plus.html 
25 Forest First: With HP , every print regardless of paper brand is addressed through HP s Forest Positive Framework  
26 Program availability varies. For details, see www.hp.com recycle. 
27 The HP DesignJet Studio Printer series and the HP DesignJet T600 Printer series are the only solutions providing  
28 HP is reducing the carbon footprint of printing through carbon reduction initiatives such as energy efficiency,  
29 More sustainable design compared to the previous printer models (HP DesignJet T100 Printer series) replaced with the  
30 The HP Eco-Carton Ink Cartridge outer carton is 100% recyclable through local cardboard paper programs. Inner  
31 C02e reduction based on moving from plastic ink cartridge to cardboard HP Eco-Carton Ink Cartridge, with annual  
32 HP Jet Fusion 3D printing solutions using HP 3D High Reusability PA PP, 12GB, TPA, PA 12, and PA 11 provide 100%,  
33 Compared to traditional CNC and manual tooling processes as of June 2020. Based on internal HP analysis and testing  
141  HP 2020 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT WWW.HP.COM SUSTAINABLEIMPACT 
cartridges contain recycled plastic from upcycled clothing hangers. HP-commissioned Aug 2020 InfoTrends report  verifies that HP is the only in-class printer OEM to report upcycled material in print cartridges. Market share: IDC Q2 20  Hardcopy Peripheral Tracker. Program availability varies. See keypointintelligence.com HPPlanetPartners. 
FutureSmart firmware 4.5 or above. Claim based on HP review of 2019 published features of competitive in-class  printers. Only HP offers a combination of security features to automatically detect, stop, and recover from attacks with  a self-healing reboot, in alignment with NIST SP 800-193 guidelines for device cyber resiliency. For a list of compatible  products, visit: hp.com go PrintersThatProtect. For more information, visit: hp.com go PrinterSecurityClaims.  
recycled content use, upcycling and eco award ranking. HP-commissioned Aug 2020 InfoTrends research report.  Market share: IDC Q2 20 Hardcopy Peripheral Tracker. Program availability varies. See hp.com go recycle and   www.keypointintelligence.com HPPlanetPartners. 
to counteract risks of deforestation. HP brand paper is sourced only from certified responsibly managed forests or  from recycled content. For other brands of paper, HP invests in restoration, protection, or in working forests recovery  projects in key regions, for instance Brazil, sufficient to balance any paper used by HP  customers that may not have  been responsibly sourced. Read more about projects and our partners at hp.com forestfirst. 
seamless printing of both large and small format sheets automatically in a multi-size print basket compared to  competitive alternatives with comparable size and features as of January 2020. 
reduced packaging, and use of recycled plastics. The HP DesignJet Studio Printer is the first HP DesignJet where HP  has offset the remaining carbon impact due to raw material extraction and processing, printer manufacturing and  transportation, as well as electricity, paper, and cartridge use in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol. 
HP DesignJet T200 Printer series. Based on calculations in accordance with ISO 14040 14044 life cycle assessments  using ReCiPe (H) v. 1.1 (2016) on GaBi 8.5 (2018) software and scaled to reflect expected yearly sales. 
materials including the ink bag are 55% recyclable and can be returned free of charge to the HP Planet Partners program  for reprocessing of plastic parts. None of these materials returned to HP Planet Partners will be sent to landfill. For  take-back of ink bag printhead prints, visit http:  www.hp.com recycle to see how to participate and for HP Planet  Partners program availability  program may not be available in your jurisdiction. 
manufacturing savings of 291 tonnes and transport savings of 8 tonnes.  
80%, 80%, 80%, and 70% postproduction surplus material reusability, respectively. For testing, material is aged  in real printing conditions and tracked by generations (worst case for reusability). Parts are then made from each  generation and tested for mechanical properties and accuracy. Learn more. 
including expert interviews and a review of published market reports. Four to six weeks average fabrication lead time  when producing in CNC. 
Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Operations Products and solutions Supply chain responsibility Appendix 