Powering  an Inclusive  Future for All 
2020 Corporate Social Responsibility  Impact Report 
    Collaboration solutions 
    Switches 
    Routers 
Cisco (NASDAQ: CSCO) is the worldwide leader in  technology that powers the Internet. Cisco inspires  new possibilities by reimagining your applications,  securing your data, transforming your infrastructure, and  empowering your teams for a global and Inclusive Future.  Discover more on The Network and follow us on Twitter. 
19 Million 
About this report We use our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Impact Report to share how we are managing and measuring  progress against our CSR goals, as well as to respond to a broad set of stakeholder expectations and inquiries  we receive throughout the year. This year, we are taking a new approach to reporting to better meet the needs  of our various stakeholders. This fiscal 2020 CSR Impact Report details progress on our most pertinent issues  over the year, as well as Cisco s responses to urgent challenges such as COVID-19. Supplementing this impact  report is our Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Reporting Hub, an expanded way to enhance our  ESG reporting and transparency. Here you will find current information and data related to many aspects of our  ESG focus areas, performance, policies, and initiatives. Finally, we are publishing a fiscal 2020 Environment  Technical Review (ETR), which provides detailed environmental performance data. 
Cisco s CSR reporting is in accordance with the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Core  Application. We are a member of the GRI Community and support the mission of GRI to empower decision  makers everywhere, through GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and its multistakeholder network, to take  action towards a more sustainable economy and world. 
Corporate profile 
sq ft real estate 
Working Pie Chart 
Working Pie Chart 
US 49.3 billion 
    Access points and  
    Security solutions  
Products and solutions 
wireless controllers 
fiscal 2020 revenue  
employees  95 
    Optical networking 
    Unified Computing  
System (UCS) 
Revenue by  product or service category 
Europe, Middle East,  and Africa (EMEA) 
Asia Paci c, Japan,  and China (APJC) 
Infrastructure platforms 
Applications 
Revenue by  geographical segmant 
Revenue by  geographical  
Revenue by  product or  
service   category 
Ours is a world shaped by  the expanding capabilities of  information technology, which  have the potential to create  opportunities or deepen inequities.  
Our vision is to help ensure that everyone has equitable access to  opportunity. We believe we have a responsibility to help make that happen.  
From increasing access to skills needed to thrive in a digital economy to  supporting the most vulnerable in times of crisis, Cisco is committed to  using our technology for social good. Our purpose goes beyond profits to  benefit our employees, communities, and the planet. 
We re proud to share our progress toward powering a more Inclusive  Future for all. 
Table of Contents 
Introduction 
Trust and Responsibility 
Leading a Conscious Culture 
Environmental Impact 
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
Technology for Good 
GRI Content Index 
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
2020 has been a year unlike any we could have imagined.  The successive battles of COVID-19, the resulting economic  contraction and job losses, issues of systemic racism and  inequities, natural disasters, and many more factors remind us  of the challenges we face as a society. Businesses around the  world realize we have a much larger role to play in helping to  solve some of these challenges now more than ever before.  Running a great business and delivering for our customers,  partners, employees, and shareholders is critical, but we have  an opportunity and a responsibility to do more. 
At Cisco, we believe in the power of technology and what  it makes possible. During this pandemic, we ve witnessed  how technology has helped us reimagine our lives, become  a critical lifeline for businesses, and connect our world  ensuring children continue to learn, providing people access  to healthcare, allowing businesses to operate, and helping  loved ones to stay close even if physically apart. Cisco  sits at the heart of so many of these connections helping  keep our customers, partners, and employees safe, secure,  and productive in this new world. Now more than ever, we  believe that technology can be used for good to provide an  opportunity for all, make a meaningful impact, and bring about  a future that is better and brighter than the reality of today. 
Years ago, we set out to change the way the world works,  lives, plays, and learns. I believe we did just that by building  networks that have shaped the Internet we know today. But  our responsibilities don t end with technology. That s why  in early 2020, Cisco announced a new purpose to power  an Inclusive Future for all. Cisco will help bridge gaps of  inequity and exclusion worldwide through the technology we  build, our scale and extended ecosystem, our commitment  
A message from   Chuck Robbins 
3 feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 2 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
to corporate social responsibility and social justice, our  teams, and the support we bring to our communities. 
Our purpose has guided our actions during this extraordinary  year, compelling us not only to support healthcare workers  and vulnerable communities with technology but also to  address inequities inside and outside our company. It s our  actions that will make the world we envision possible. 
Throughout this report, you will have the opportunity to   learn other ways in which Cisco is powering an Inclusive  Future. Our actions align with the Ten Principles of the  United Nations Global Compact, which Cisco signed in  2001 and continues to support. Our areas of focus include  operating an ethical and trustworthy business, fostering a  Conscious Culture, protecting the environment, sourcing  responsibly, and more.  
We are at a critical moment in the history of our nation and  world. There is so much we can do to seize this moment  and create a more inclusive and sustainable world together. I  remain hopeful for the future and am optimistic that together  we can continue to drive change and leave a lasting impact  for generations to come. 
Sincerely,  
Chuck Robbins  Chairman and CEO 
power requirements of the  Cisco 8201 router, 26x less  
US 5 million 
pledged to organizations focused on social justice 
than a predecessor, the   
US 458  million 
community programs   
in cash and in-kind   
by Cisco and the   Cisco Foundation1 
contributions to   
absolute reduction in   total Scope 1 and 2   
greenhouse gas  
(FY07 baseline) 
emissions   
employee participation  in community impact  achieved, allowing us   
Year in Review     Fiscal 2020 CSR highlights 
in cash and personal protective  
responders during COVID-19 
to meet our   FY20 goal  
equipment to nonprofit   organizations and first   
US 53  million 
in The Gartner Supply  
Chain Top 25 for  
2020 report 
place 2019 and 2020,  
1  This includes US 313 million of in-kind contributions for the Cisco Networking Academy. 
2  Some of our social impact grantees receive funding from other organizations. Please see the  
World s Best Work- 
details on the criteria for the number of people positively impacted between FY16-FY20 and  the independent limited assurance report. 
according to Great  
Place to Work  
2.3 million 
students participated in Cisco Networking  Academy in FY20, bringing the total since  inception in 1997 to 12.6 million students 
people positively impacted through our social  
Cisco Global Problem Solver Challenge  Grand Prize of US 100,000 awarded  
impact grants and signature programs2 
developed a solar-powered chilling  system that helps small dairy farmers  
keep products fresh during transit  
530 million  
4th annual 
to Savanna Circuit Tech, which  
was generated by wind, solar, and  
of Cisco s total global electricity  
hydroelectric sources, including  
100% in the U.S. and parts of   
Europe, and 60% in India  
We believe that, together, we can create a better future for  all one that is equitable and inclusive.  
To achieve this, we must continuously look at ways to  improve our environment, focus on the characteristics that  demonstrate who we are, and create positive experiences  for everyone at Cisco. We intentionally create an environment  where all employees can innovate and thrive.  
This is what we call a Conscious Culture.  It s this culture that empowers our people to tackle  the biggest challenges and opportunities. It creates an  environment where we can develop cutting-edge solutions  for our customers, thereby helping them to overcome their  toughest obstacles. It enables growth and profitability of our  business while setting us apart from our competitors.  
It means that every one of us is aware and focused on the  impact that we have on others. It s about seeing, embracing,  and valuing differences of all kinds by strengthening the  connection with those who are different from us. This brings  out the best in our people, and it empowers us to be creative  and challenge norms that no longer serve us.   
Our Conscious Culture is our way of being, and this is what  drives our commitment to serving our communities.  
4 5 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
From a Conscious Culture to  
               an Inclusive Future 
A message from Francine Katsoudas,   Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer 
Last year, we embarked on a journey to transform Human  Resources from a traditional department focused on  maximizing internal resources into an organization that thinks  about the broad impact on internal and external communities  alike, looking equally at people, business, and society.  
We call our organization People   Communities. This was a big change, and the timing couldn t have been  more perfect as we navigated a global pandemic, addressed  social injustices, and adapted quickly to so many unknowns.  
We hold ourselves, as well as our customers, partners, and  suppliers, accountable for serving global communities and  creating a safe environment for all. We see now, more than  ever, the role that technology can play in solving some of  the world s biggest challenges.  
We believe an Inclusive Future is not only possible, it is  Cisco s purpose to do our part in bringing this to life with  our technology, ecosystem, and commitment. 
Sincerely,    
Francine Katsoudas  Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer 
A purpose that         includes everyone 
A conversation with Tae Yoo,   Cisco s Senior Vice President,   Corporate Affairs 
Q:   Cisco has introduced a new purpose to power an  
A:   Powering an Inclusive Future for all is not a recent  
development. The power of our technology to create  positive outcomes on a global scale was immediately  apparent to Cisco s founders and has been core to our  CSR programs ever since. We have always focused on  providing individuals and communities with access to  opportunities helping people get their basic needs  met, obtain relevant skills, and find or create meaningful  employment in a digital economy. Together with our  employees and partners in the public and nonprofit  sectors, we are excited about the future and our  potential to drive even greater outcomes as we   work to create a more inclusive world.  
Inclusive Future for all. What role will Cisco s CSR  programs play in bringing this purpose to life?  
Q:   2020 was an unusual year by any measure, with  
A:   We bring to bear all our available resources the passion  
Q:   What did you learn through the initial phase of the  
A:   One of the greatest lessons we ve learned from the  
At the same time, we understand that the road forward,  post-pandemic, is not an easy one. To avoid reinforcing  prior inequities and vulnerabilities, it is critical that  we apply significant effort on rebuilding. Of course,  no single organization can tackle this alone. It s more  important than ever that we work together (businesses,  nonprofits, governments) to help rebuild in a way that  ensures positive outcomes and opportunity for all. At  Cisco, we have a history of engaging in long-term  partnerships and focusing on long-term commitments in  service of an Inclusive Future. Living our purpose means  continuing to get everyone involved, and that s exactly  what we intend to do. 
pandemic is that we indeed can adapt, function, and  innovate in this new normal. Although we were physically  distanced in order to reduce the spread of COVID-19,  we have found creative ways of getting together, getting  engaged, and getting things done.  
significantly increased needs as the world responded  to COVID-19. How did Cisco help its nonprofit partners  pivot to the new realities brought on by the pandemic?  
pandemic? And what do you believe is next?  
of our employees, our funding, our technology, and our  expertise to support our nonprofit community partners  who are working tirelessly to improve lives around the  globe. Through our CSR model of investing in early- stage tech solutions, our partners were already using  technology to deliver their programs and services. This  enabled them to quickly pivot, rapidly accelerate, and  deliver different types of services to address the new and  emerging needs resulting from COVID-19. It s also an  indicator that they are well-positioned to evolve as new  technology and circumstances (including crises) emerge.  Looking ahead, we will continue to accelerate innovation  with our existing partners, while seeding new opportunity  with emerging partners. 
Cisco s purpose is clear: To power an Inclusive  Future for all. Our business is about connecting  and making connections, which are critical  to inclusivity. From our earliest days, Cisco s  founders understood the power of our technology  to create positive outcomes on a global scale.  Through the years, however, we ve learned that  even the most transformative technology has no  value if it isn t available to people or they don t  know how to use it. 
This understanding of what our products make possible  especially when combined with education and skills  building formed the foundation for meaningful corporate  social responsibility (CSR) at Cisco. Today, our commitment to  CSR starts at the top with our Board and senior leadership  and is embedded throughout the organization. 
Cisco s actions are grounded in our Conscious Culture,  where trustworthiness and ethical conduct are expected  and supported among our employees, suppliers, and  business partners.  
Corporate Affairs, as part of Cisco s People and  Communities organization, stewards Cisco s strategic  approach to CSR, including social investment programs and  environmental sustainability. The organization also oversees  our commitments to CSR performance and transparency. 
6 7 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Corporate   social   responsibility   at Cisco 
Latest ESG Ratings and Rankings  
Leader in CMT   Communications Equipment 
 9,  8,  13 
UN Sustainable Development Goals 
CSR Management and Governance 
ESG Ratings and Rankings 
Stakeholder Engagement 
Cisco s approach to: 
Learn more about   
in IT Industry IPE   Supply Chain Climate  Action Index (SCTI)  and Green Supply  Chain Corporate Information  Transparency Index (CITI) 
DISCLOSURE INSIGHT ACTION A  List 
Public Policy 
Materiality 
Gold  Class 
Materiality 
Gaining clear insights into what is most important to our stakeholders and our  business is important at Cisco. We utilize these inputs in our CSR strategy, programs,  and reporting through a materiality assessment process that is conducted in full  every two years. Our latest assessment, completed by an independent consultant in  fiscal 2019, evaluated 16 topics as illustrated in the table below. A comprehensive  understanding of the internal and external landscape of material topics is crucial to  Cisco s strategic planning, reporting, and ultimately our performance. Therefore, we  continuously improve on our data collection and analysis processes. Our fiscal 2021  materiality assessment will utilize multiple methods, including big data and direct  stakeholder input. A full description of the materiality assessment process can be  found online. 
CSR Focus Areas and Pillar Alignment 
CSR Focus Area Priority Tier Fiscal 2020 Pillar  
Ethics and integrity 1 Trust and Responsibility 
Data security and privacy 1 Trust and Responsibility 
Employee training and development 1 Conscious Culture 
Inclusion and diversity 1 Conscious Culture 
Energy and GHGs 1 
Supply chain sustainability 1 Circular Economy and  Supply Chain Excellence 
Material use and waste 1 Circular Economy and  Supply Chain Excellence 
Digital rights and Inclusion 2 Trust and Responsibility 
Employee community benefits 2 Conscious Culture 
Local community impact 2 Conscious Culture 
IT skills and digital readiness 2 Technology for Good 
Critical human needs and disaster relief 2 Technology for Good 
IT solutions for the environment 2 Technology for Good 
Solid waste from operations (trash) 3 Environmental Impact 
Economic inequality 3 Technology for Good 
Environmental Impact,  Circular Economy and  Supply Chain Excellence 
Environmental Impact,  Circular Economy and  Supply Chain Excellence 
Stakeholder engagement 
The materiality process is also  supported, in part, by regular dialogue  that allows us to better align our  business to social and environmental  needs. We partner with a wide range  of global and local organizations to  shape and extend the reach of our  CSR programs, including governments,  nonprofits, multilateral organizations,  and peers. A full list of identified  stakeholders is available online.  
UN Sustainable   Development Goals 
To help achieve the vision of powering  an Inclusive Future, it takes a global  effort. That s one of the reasons our  targeted CSR efforts align with many   of the UN Sustainable Development  Goals (SDGs). The 17 SDGs set   forth a framework to build a better  world for people and our planet   by 2030 and are designed to  be applied by governments and  organizations worldwide. 
The SDGs  success requires  global cooperation and ambitious  commitments ideas that square  perfectly with our own about inclusivity  and giving back. A detailed picture of  how Cisco s material issues, strategies,  programs, and goals support the  specific SDGs and targets can be  found on our ESG Reporting Hub.  
Conscious Culture  
    Goal: Achieve 80% community impact participation,  
    Goal: Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions  
    Goal: Use electricity generated from renewable  
8 9 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
worldwide by 60% absolute by FY22 (FY07 baseline).    On Track. Our renewable energy purchases, plus  over 440 energy efficiency projects completed at our  facilities over the last 5 years, putting us well on the  path toward achieving this goal. We reached a 55%  reduction in FY20. 
Achieved. A new inclusive approach combined with  digitization and data analytics made it easier than ever  for employees to make a positive impact, and we  achieved 81% participation. 
Read more about our Conscious Culture. 
Environmental Impact 
sources for at least 85% of our global electricity   by FY22.  
  On Track. New long-term and short-term renewable  
energy contracts have allowed us to achieve 100%  
renewable electricity in the U.S. and parts of Europe, and  
60% in India. Globally, we reached 83% renewable in FY20. 
as measured by employees  actions, including  advocating for causes they care deeply about,  volunteering, donating, and participating in programs that  positively impact communities by 2020. 
Goals and          progress 
    Goal: Improve large rack-mounted equipment  
Read more about our Environmental Impact and view  
comprehensive environmental data in our ETR. 
system power efficiency as measured from the  input power from the facility to the board-mounted  ASICs, memory, and other chip devices from 77%  to 87% by FY22 (FY16 baseline).    On Track. To reach our power efficiency goal, we  are adding printed circuit board design features to  improve the flow of electrons to board components. 
Each year we report on  progress toward Cisco s  enterprise goals in our annual  CSR report. For example, in  2006, Cisco set its first GHG  emissions reduction goal.  Since then, we have set other  goals to engage employees,  reduce environmental impacts  in our supply chain, and  benefit communities. Learn  more throughout this report  about how we made progress  toward each of our goals. 
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
   Goal: 80% of Cisco component, manufacturing,  
   Goal: 70% of Cisco component and manufacturing  
   Goal: Reduce Cisco supply chain-related Scope 3   
   Goal: Decrease use of virgin plastics by 20% by  
3  According to current standard definitions used in certification protocols,  zero waste  diversion is defined as a 90 percent or greater overall diversion of solid, nonhazardous wastes from  
4  According to GRI, the term  base year  refers to the year against which the measurement is tracked over time.  Baseline  refers to the measurement itself. 
5  The plastics included in this goal make up the majority of Cisco s use. However, it excludes plastics contained in commodity components sourced from suppliers (such as printed circuit  
6  This goal language has been slightly modified from that published in FY19, to better align with industry standard terminology. It does not reflect a change in the goal itself. 
7  Some of our social impact grantees receive funding from other organizations. Please see the details on the criteria for the number of people positively impacted between FY16-FY20 and  
landfill, incineration (waste-to-energy), and the environment. Diversion methods can include reduction, reuse, recycling, and or compost.  
boards). Most of these electronic components require the electrical insulating property provided by plastics. 
the independent limited assurance report. 
FY25 (FY18 base year)5.    On Track. Accomplishments in FY20 include  the launch of select models of the IP phone 8800  series and the Webex Room Kit Plus using 100%  post-consumer recycled (PCR) plastic resin. The  production of these products was delayed due to  COVID-19, but will take full effect in FY21. COVID- 19-related impacts largely drove our 26.1%  reduction in FY20. Therefore, we do not consider the  
goal to be met and continue to drive progress. 
and logistics suppliers by spend will have a public,  absolute GHG emissions reduction target by FY25.    On Track. In FY20, Cisco collaborated with industry  peers to set clear expectations with suppliers in the  electronics industry. 33% of our suppliers reported  a public, absolute GHG emissions reduction target,  which is a 10-point increase compared to last year. 
suppliers by spend will achieve a zero-waste diversion  rate at one or more sites by FY253.    On Track. Cisco and our suppliers have continued  to make progress toward zero-waste certifications at  sites in China and Thailand. Over the last two years,  23% of our suppliers have achieved a zero-waste  diversion rate at at least one site. 
GHG emissions by 30% absolute by FY30   (FY19 base year)4.    On Track. There is a standard one-year lag  between when emissions occur at our suppliers and  when they are reported to Cisco through CDP. This  year, we have reported our FY19 base year. Progress  against this goal will be reported in our FY21 report. 
   Goal: Reach 2 million Cisco Networking Academy  
   Goal: Increase product packaging cube efficiency   
   Goal: 100% of new Cisco products and packaging  
Technology for Good  
   Goal: Positively impact 1 billion people through  
   Goal: Reduce foam used in Cisco product  
to incorporate Circular Design Principles by FY25. 
Read more about Technology for Good. 
On Track. In FY20, we reduced our use of foam in  Cisco product packaging by 11.5% against a FY19  base year. However, COVID-19-related impacts  largely drove our reduction. 
On Track. In FY21, we will institute a methodology  to score products against the Circular Design Principles  released in FY20. We will begin reporting on progress  in our FY21 report. 
Read more about Circular Economy and Supply   Chain Excellence. 
students per year by 2020.    Achieved. We achieved this goal in FY19 and  continue to reach over 2 million students yearly,  with 2.3 million in FY20.  
our social impact grants and signature programs  by 2025.     On Track. As of FY20, 530 million  people  have been positively impacted through our social  impact grants and signature programs7. 
by 50% by FY25 (FY19 base year)6.    On Track. In FY20, we refined our packaging  efficiency goal to focus on package volume. We will  begin reporting on this metric in our FY21 report. 
packaging by 75% as measured by weight by FY25  (FY19 base year). 
10 11 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
We are at a critical  moment in history and  so much is within our  ability to shape it.   - Chuck Robbins, CEO  
Powering an  Inclusive Future  for all  
Cisco s purpose: 
Advanced technologies like artificial intelligence, machine learning, and big data  have the potential to improve the quality of human life.  
These technologies have helped fuel business opportunities in Silicon Valley  and technology hubs in other parts of the world. But, the benefits and economic  rewards of technology are not equally available to everyone. 
Unequal opportunity plays out in many aspects of society, from disparities in  education and healthcare, to systemic discrimination, to exposure to the worst  impacts of climate change. If these conditions continue to go unaddressed, they  will lead to even greater challenges and bigger divides for the many people left  behind by the digital revolution. 
Cisco believes in a world with equal access to opportunity. A world in which people  and communities are inspired to work together to resolve collective challenges. A  world in which businesses operate with all aspects of society in mind.  
We believe that business leaders and policymakers must urgently step up to the  challenges of inequity and create new pathways to economic prosperity, using our  power to help dismantle barriers, spark new ideas, and ignite innovation. 
Cisco is leading the way with a purpose to power an Inclusive Future for all.  
We announced this new purpose in early 2020. And the ensuing year has given  us ample opportunities to bring our purpose to life. On the pages that follow,  you ll see how we are addressing injustice and inequality, COVID-19, and climate  change three major societal issues through the lens of powering an Inclusive  Future. You can read further examples of our purpose at work throughout this  CSR Impact Report. By connecting people through technology, investing in  underserved communities, taking action in support of social justice, and engaging  our customers and peers, there s so much we can do to power an Inclusive  Future for all.  
12 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
Social Justice        at Cisco 
than words 
A Q A with Shari Slate   
Vice President,   
Inclusive Future   Strategy and   
Chief Inclusion   Collaboration Officer 
How has Cisco taken a stand for social  justice over the past year? 
In September 2020, we publicly unveiled Cisco s  Social Justice Beliefs and Our Commitment to Action.  For all of us who poured our souls into creating this  moment, it s a remarkable milestone. Because it s not  just a platform for change. It s a bridge. Connecting  longstanding challenges with new possibilities for  overcoming them. Ushering in a future of fairness.  Enabling bold, deliberate, intentional action whenever  and wherever we see injustice and inequality. 
What was the path Cisco took to   this moment? 
Over the past five years, Cisco has taken courageous  steps to fight injustice and inequality. We ve taken a  stand and considerable actions to help protect the  equal rights, safety, and dignity of our people and  communities around the world. Now, we are ready to  reach higher. To rise up. To make seismic shifts in our  company, our communities, and our society. As Dr.  King put it,  the time is always right to do what is right.  
What are Cisco s Social Justice Beliefs  and Our Commitment to Action? 
We began by codifying a set of beliefs to further our  purpose and demonstrate publicly who we are as an  organization. Those beliefs influence how we act as a  business, including our commitment to social justice.  
We firmly believe in Technology for Good   Commitment to Justice  Addressing Insecurity  of Being  Culture of Coalescence  and Curiosity,  Proximity, and Empathy. These beliefs are constant,  serving as an ever-present inspiration for our team  and for Cisco globally. 
One of the things that I am most proud of is how we  didn t simply lay out a list of ideals that we would like  to adhere to. We set out an action plan to make ideals  reality and continue to take action. What we are doing  isn t just for now it is to build an Inclusive Future for all. 
We can t address every issue simultaneously that s a  formula for failure. The initial 12 actions we are taking  as a company are designed to address issues that  most specifically impact our African American Black  employees and communities. The impact we create  and the lessons we learn from this critical effort will  allow us to replicate and scale for everyone. 
What affects any one of us affects all of us. Our Social  Justice Beliefs and Our Commitment to Action are  fundamental to driving change both within and beyond  the walls of our company. 
We will report our progress in future CSR Impact  Reports. Today, we share our intent toward these  12 goals as an invitation to all who believe we can  successfully fight injustice and inequality. An invitation  to join us. Create a movement. Be the change. Will  you join us in our mission to power for an Inclusive  Future for all? 
How are you building support for   this effort? 
We have learned a significant lesson on this journey,  given the size and scope of the challenge we face  collaboration is essential. Nothing gets done if we  don t collaborate.  
We are leveraging the full Cisco ecosystem. Our new  motion is to lock arms and invite others to join us in  taking action. Part of that action is to work with our  partners and support research to better understand  opportunities that are ripe for investment both  financially and otherwise.   
How will Cisco maintain the momentum  into the future? 
13 feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Connecting in a                time of crisis 
14 15 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Cisco s response to COVID-19 
COVID-19 has touched us all. And throughout  this crisis, Cisco has responded as only we  can by enabling the world s networks to handle  the sudden work-from-home surge, as well as  providing collaboration tools that have brought  people together virtually during this time.  
From the pandemic s earliest days, Cisco was deemed an essential business  offering critical infrastructure. We prioritized orders from first responders and  essential services and supported the rapidly-changing needs of healthcare  facilities. At the same time, we provided, and continue to provide, solutions to  help communities, customers, suppliers, and partners to operate effectively in  virtual environments across the globe. 
Our response was rooted in a long history of responding to global challenges.  In the context of this pandemic, here is how Cisco helped each of our  stakeholders rebuild: 
For our customers  
For many of our customers, life changed almost overnight as  they were forced to close or shift to remote work. To support  this transition, Cisco introduced a variety of free offers and  trials for our Webex and security technologies, as well as  US 2.5 billion in financing to help keep businesses running.  The Business Resiliency Program, offered by Cisco Capital,  includes an up-front 90-day payment holiday and allows  customers to defer 95 percent of the cost of a new product  or solution until 2021.  
In partnership with suppliers, we developed a new order  prioritization process that enabled the fulfillment of over  2500 critical customer infrastructure requests related to  first responders. For healthcare customers, we provided  essential technology to support remote connectivity and  telemedicine  customized solutions to support the rapid  ramp-up of ICUs, temporary clinics, and COVID-19 test  sites  and enabled medical device integration and remote  access to medical data. For customers who manage  factories, distribution warehouses, and other facilities that  require personnel to be on site, we ve provided solutions   that will help to ensure employee safety and privacy, while  allowing them to remain productive.  
For our employees  
While many Cisco employees were already equipped to  work from home, we increased our capacity sevenfold to  support 140,000 remote employees and contractors in  just 10 days. This required expanding the capacity of our  VPN, providing employees with needed equipment, and  broadening our global IT support. While the majority of our  workforce continues to work remotely, we are thinking ahead  to necessary protocols as employees return to the office. For  example, we are performing contact tracing where required,  and we limit data collection in proximity reporting and health  screening to protect employees  privacy.  
We have also remained attuned to employee wellbeing.  During regular virtual Check-Ins, our executive leadership  team, along with medical and mental health experts and  special guests, have offered business updates, medical  guidance, perspective, and inspiration. We ve also given  employees several extra paid holidays to be with family or  reset and recharge.  
COVID-19 cont. 
For our manufacturing suppliers 
We engaged our manufacturing partners and components  suppliers early in the pandemic, sharing guidelines on  responsible business conduct and ensuring they had  protections in place for safe onsite work. As the situation  evolved, we reviewed response plans that our manufacturing  partners developed. When temporary shutdowns or capacity  reductions were needed, we leveraged our global network to  continue to meet customer needs. Moving forward, we are  continuing to honor our commitments to protect vulnerable  workers and promote human rights in the supply chain. Learn  more about our supply chain s response to COVID-19. 
For our nonmanufacturing suppliers 
Beyond suppliers who manufacture, transport, and repair  Cisco products, we have a large network of indirect  suppliers, including staffing companies who connect Cisco  with our contract workforce. We supported these suppliers  and our contingent workers by providing pay continuity  to Cisco-placed workers who require access to Cisco  locations to perform their services, temporarily extending  tenure limits and providing designated days off to recharge.  We maintained regular communication with these workers  through a website, invitations to Cisco Check-Ins, and a  hotline with our Chief Procurement Officer for situation  updates and rapid actions. For diverse suppliers who have  participated in our sponsorship programs, we provided  curriculum training on Cisco s COVID-19 response, Webex  solutions, and virtual meeting trends to help them work as  effectively as possible in this new environment. 
For our communities  
We also remain aware that people who were vulnerable  before the pandemic now face even more risks to their  health, stability, housing, and wellbeing. The nonprofits that  serve these populations have seen declines in volunteer  capacity and financial support, on top of the challenges of  complying with social distancing requirements. Cisco has  stepped in to help organizations near and far, donating  US 53 million in cash and personal protective equipment  to organizations addressing these vulnerable citizens. This  included US 10 million to Destination: Home to support a  Financial Assistance Program for residents of Santa Clara  
16 17 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
County, California who lost income due to COVID-19. We  also invited customers, partners, and suppliers to join us in  uplifting vulnerable communities through our Next Horizon  Impact initiative, and launched an employee matching gift  campaign that raised over US 3 million for nonprofit partners. 
For governments and front-line workers 
Part of Cisco s contribution to COVID-19 relief was   US 7 million that went to the United Nations Foundation s  COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund, supporting the World  Health Organization s (WHO) worldwide efforts to prevent,  detect, and manage the spread of the virus. Through our  Country Digital Acceleration (CDA) program, we provided  funding for heads of state, government agencies, and  businesses to rapidly deploy COVID-19-related technology  solutions. Webex collaboration technology also enabled  institutions like the G20 and U.S. Congress to transition to  secure virtual meetings.  
We also helped essential medical professionals in multiple  creative ways. Teleconferencing equipment in Cisco offices  was donated to local hospitals to be used for telehealth visits.  Stanford Children s Health, one of the hospitals that received  a donated system, was able to increase virtual visits from   30 to 700 per day as a result. Cisco donated 5.3 million  KN95 masks and more than 750,000 surgical masks and  face shields, some of which were 3D-printed by Cisco   volunteers worldwide. 
Cisco s four pillars for an Inclusive Future 
While COVID-19 has been a major focus of our efforts over the past year, the  pandemic will not be the last major crisis that we confront. To enable Cisco  to be a part of solutions for any crisis, injustice, or global challenge, we have  developed a new framework, anchored by four primary pillars of response: 
responders, and those  
impacted by systemic  
support underserved  
disproportionately  
communities, first  
issues and crises 
Focusing on the  nonprofits and  partners that  
The Most   Vulnerable 
beyond our employees 
Expanding care and   wellbeing services  
Families and   Community 
Supporting technology  
research and address  
solutions that can  advance healthcare  
social inequities 
Research and   
Resilience 
Helping healthcare and  education institutions  
opportunities during   times of uncertainty 
provide care and  pathways to job  
Strategic   Recovery 
18 19 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
In a year of urgent global challenges, we haven t lost sight of one of the most critical and complex challenges that  humanity faces: reversing the advance of climate change, which is already affecting people and ecosystems around  the globe, especially vulnerable populations. We can t do it alone, but Cisco is doing our part by reducing the impacts of our  operations and supply chain, contributing to a circular economy, and helping customers decrease GHG emissions. We re also  supporting communities experiencing direct effects of a changing climate, like extreme weather, as well as indirect effects such  as hunger, displacement, and conflict. Here are a few of the ways we re making a difference:  
How we re doing 
Renewable energy  We re continuing investments in solar  and wind energy, including energy  for onsite and offsite renewable  opportunities across our owned  operations. 
Addressing climate change:  
Circular design and consumption By designing our products and  packaging for reuse, repair, recycling,  and resource efficiency, and managing  our equipment for multiple lifecycles,  we decrease the emissions associated  with extracting materials and  manufacturing new products. 
Remote collaboration tools The same remote collaboration  technologies that, for years,  have allowed people to work and  meet from anywhere and reduce  physical travel were available  to support 2020 s massive  transition to remote work. 
Efficient products New products, such as the Cisco 8000 Series routers, use a  variety of design features to reduce energy consumption and  material use, both of which reduce GHG emissions. 
Smart buildings and cities Smart solutions enabled by Cisco  networking technology not only help drive  connectivity, productivity, and security for  buildings, cities, and communities  they also  help reduce energy consumption. 
Energy efficiency in our operations Cisco has invested in hundreds of  projects to improve the efficiency   of our offices, labs, and data   centers worldwide.  
Extreme weather and crisis response Cisco s Tactical Operations (TacOps)  team is often the first to respond in the  aftermath of natural disasters and other  crises, providing connectivity for local  organizations so they can begin to rebuild. 
Employee engagement  We engage our people with events  and opportunities to raise awareness  and create a sense of community  around sustainability. 
Supply chain emissions  We work with our component  suppliers, manufacturing partners, and  logistics providers to reduce emissions  and to set targets for absolute GHG  emissions reductions. 
Trust and  Responsibility 
Why this matters to our business 
Cisco s networking, security,  collaboration, and cloud solutions  help secure and protect the lifeblood  of the global economy.  
More than 80 percent of the world s web traffic travels  securely across Cisco connections, and our software  and solutions protect and keep private the data of over  500,000 organizations, from the public sector, to critical  infrastructure, to the Fortune 500. 
Given the critical nature of the solutions we provide,  holding ourselves to the highest standards of a trustworthy,  transparent, and accountable company is vital. This requires  us to design solutions with security and privacy embedded  
20 21 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
from the start, and to be constantly vigilant against intrusions  and misuse. It also requires applying global principles of  human rights to supplier selection  the design, manufacturing,  and sale of our solutions  and working to integrate a human  rights perspective across Cisco s global business. 
Earning and upholding stakeholder trust goes beyond  the integrity of solutions and networks. It also speaks to  our financial transparency and high standards of ethical  conduct. Cisco has forged trusted relationships among  global stakeholders and has appeared on awards lists such   as the World s Most Ethical Companies and the Just 100. 
Our business and our world are undergoing rapid change.  As we evolve in response to emerging customer needs,  we ll continue to connect everything securely, privately, and  responsibly, so that anything is possible. 
As workplaces and schools go online, so  do online trolls intent on disruption and  harassment. This is a nuisance for any  organization, but presents a particular   
virtual classrooms 
who must keep children protected   
human rights risk for educators,   
from these bad actors.    
Data breaches on the rise  
Globally, distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks are expected  to double from 7.9 million in 2018 to 15.4 million by 2023 potentially  creating significant disruption for businesses. 
customer confidence 
According to Cisco s 2019 Consumer Privacy  Survey, roughly a third of consumers whom  we call Privacy Actives care deeply about  
The importance of  
data privacy and have taken actions to  
protect it.   
Security, privacy, and trust  
22 23 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
authorized use and access to  confidential information, such   as passwords and firewalls. 
The features that enable  
Security Privacy Trust 
When we use words like  privacy,   security,  and  trust  at Cisco,   
what do we mean? Here s how we define these terms:  
How we define security, privacy, and trust 
How we engage 
As organizations and individuals worldwide become more reliant on technology,  there are more opportunities to connect and collaborate but also more risks.  Users are sharing increasing amounts of data, such as health records, banking  information, and critical business files that are stored and transferred between  a growing number of websites and applications. Data is a vital asset of business  today. It must be managed with tools, processes, and policies that enable security  and privacy across the entire business ecosystem. 
Since our founding in 1984, security and privacy have been priorities for Cisco.  As we have transitioned to provide more software-based solutions, having a  strong security and privacy foundation has become more critical than ever. We ve  committed to invest across people, policies, processes, and technology to support  the security, privacy, and resilience that leads to customer trust.  
Trust and Responsibility 
Cisco s Privacy Principles. 
The fair, transparent, and  accountable processing   of personal information. 
to build and maintain credibility  
The result of Cisco s efforts   
Cisco s Trust Principles. 
with customers.  
Initiatives to enable progress 
Employee engagement  Through awareness, workforce training, and education, we  ensure that every Cisco employee understands their role in the  security and privacy equation. By creating a collective sense  of responsibility and ownership, we protect ourselves, our  enterprise, and our customers  helping enhance security and  privacy worldwide.  
We educate employees through SecCon, our annual internal  security conference, regularly held in multiple locations  worldwide (with a virtual conference in 2020). We also keep risk  mitigation top of mind with the Keeping Cisco Safe campaign.  Beginning in 2017, this campaign introduced a group of  animated monsters representing a range of cyberrisk, security,  and privacy concepts. Using digital signage and interactive  training modules, we engaged and broadened awareness  among 97,000 employees and contingent workers. This led to  a spike in reported incidents to the Data Protection and Privacy  response team, indicating a better understanding and proper  reporting of risks. The campaign was named a gold winner in  Info Security Product Guide s 2020 Global Excellence Awards. 
End-to-end security and privacy  Cisco embeds security and privacy by design and default with  our Secure Development Lifecycle (SDL), a repeatable and  measurable process that is now unified across all solutions  and services we offer. This combination of tools, practices,  and awareness increases the resiliency and trustworthiness  of Cisco solutions throughout their lifecycles. New solutions  are not released to customers until security and privacy  requirements are embedded and confirmed. 
Our tools, practices, and programs  to raise awareness increase   the resiliency and trustworthiness  of Cisco solutions throughout  their lifecycles. 
Trust and Responsibility 
We are committed to transparent disclosure and education  of customers on security and privacy topics. Cisco releases  a Transparency Report every six months to document  the data requests we receive from law enforcement and  national security agencies around the world. Additional  documentation on the Trust Portal illustrates our thought  leadership on security, privacy, and trust. Our Principled  Approach to Government Requests for Data, outlines how  we protect the privacy of our customers when responding  to government demands for data.  
Transparency extends to our solutions: our Transparency  Service Center enables customers to inspect and test  Cisco source code and other intellectual property including  hardware, software, and firmware in dedicated, secure  Cisco facilities. Customized engagements are tailored  for customers to verify that Cisco provides trustworthy  solutions. View our latest publications and policies on the  ESG Reporting Hub. 
We hold ourselves accountable for resolution of security and  privacy incidents. When issues arise with Cisco s solutions,  our global Product Security Incident Response Team (PSIRT)  responds swiftly, using a playbook with documented resolution  procedures. When security or privacy incidents occur, our  Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) and or  our Data Incident Response Team (DIRT) kicks into gear. These  24 7 teams perform comprehensive incident investigation  and prevention through threat assessment and detection,  mitigation planning, incident trend analysis, and security  architecture review. 
Investments in innovation  Today s cyber attacks are ever-evolving,  so we must make investments to stay  ahead. These investments include  enhancements to the foundational  security of our solutions, adding  layers of security that help protect  against counterfeit and unauthorized  versions of hardware and software. We  also manage a portfolio of 400 (and  growing) products that are equipped  with trustworthy capabilities to protect  against cyber attacks, verify hardware  and software integrity, and earn  and maintain customer trust. These  technologies, such as image signing,  Secure Boot, Cisco Trust Anchor  module, and runtime defenses, are  integrated into many of our platforms  to help ensure code is authentic,  unmodified, and operating as intended. 
We rigorously test and certify  products over 175 product lines  in all to meet global government  security certifications and  requirements. We also invest  in advanced security research,  conducted through 20 research  partnerships in five countries. 
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
Responding to global needs At Cisco, we have always taken a global approach to privacy and security.  Recognizing privacy as a fundamental human right, we work closely with regulators  around the world to drive consistency in our approach to protecting and respecting  privacy. We have a centralized Chief Privacy Office with regional officers leading  each of the three major regions where we do business. Each regional officer  chairs a Regional Privacy Council for their respective territory to ensure we are  addressing local and country laws in our global approach.  
To demonstrate our compliance capabilities and adherence to global privacy  principles, we have certified our enterprisewide program to EU Binding Corporate  Rules, APEC Cross-Border Privacy Rules system and Privacy Recognition for  Processors, and the EU UK Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield. In the U.S., we continue   to call for federal privacy legislation that ensures a consistent baseline of  protection for all users.  
Trust and Responsibility Trust and Responsibility 
Securing a web ecosystem of this size is a big job. We invest across  people, policies, processes, and technology to help us get it done. 
The Scope and Scale of Cisco Security and Trust Organization 
We take it on  with a team of: 35,000 employees and contractors  certi ed as security champions 
Every day,  Cisco manages  a complex data system that  produces: 
and a Secure Development Lifecycle that s been in place for 
1.2 trillion security events in 170 countries 
75 million web transactions 
dedicated Incident Responders worldwide 
47 terabytes of tra c 
By embedding security and privacy  throughout our operations and solutions  and sharing our cyberresilience strategies  widely, we earn and maintain customer  trust and help make the world more safe  and secure. When we all have better  security and privacy practices, we re all  better off. A few ways we engage with  the public and private sectors to improve  our collective cyberdefenses include:  
    Advising governments and academia and  
    Encouraging standards organizations to  
    Raising concerns when government legislation  
Beyond Cisco:   Enhancing global awareness 
accelerate the advancement of technology  engineered with security, privacy, and trust by  design and default 
could potentially impact the security or privacy  of technology  
participating in industry working groups to  help develop better collective cyberresilience  strategies  
    Spearheading agreements to share threat  
    Investing in our first Center of Excellence and  
    Publishing new research and leading practices  
    Participating in events such as National  
     Leading efforts to build the next generation of  
security talent and improve inclusion and diversity  across Cisco and the industry, including:  
intelligence with select organizations, such as  NATO and Interpol, to jointly fight cybercrime 
Co-Innovation to focus on security and privacy 
in Cisco s Trust Center to transparently share  what we have learned publicly  
Cybersecurity Awareness Month, initially in the  U.S. and now in multiple countries  
    Working with global universities on research  
    Teaching security courses to diverse students  
through the Cisco Networking Academy and  working with higher educational institutions  to develop security and privacy curricula 
projects and programs dedicated to the  enhancement of security and privacy 
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 26 
Webex sign-ups in 24 hours 240,000 
new organizations signed up for  
Duo Security in one week 
14 billion meeting minutes 
In March 2020: 
OF INTEREST  Collaboration without  compromise: Keeping Webex  secure during COVID-19  
The need for secure collaboration  technologies like Cisco Webex, our  videoconferencing platform, has been  especially critical during the COVID-19  pandemic. As the largest enterprise  security company in the world, Cisco  was uniquely positioned to provide  unparalleled, secure collaboration  services to our customers as workforces  around the globe went remote. 
Knowing that bad actors would  exploit individuals whose work-from- home environment was not secure,  we helped customers implement  secure networked systems for remote  workforces, ensuring their businesses  stayed productive. We also published a  white paper with tips and resources for  keeping one s family cybersafe. 
Trust and Responsibility 
5.02 million 
(twice the prepandemic  
in a single day   
Videoconferencing became a staple  of many people s personal and  professional lives, and demand for  Cisco s secure Webex capabilities  skyrocketed. We hosted 14 billion  meeting minutes in March alone,  more than double the number in  February. We sustained this level  of use throughout the year, hosting  26 billion minutes in October 2020  compared to just 7 billion minutes in  the same month in 2019. Users took  note of Webex s distinctive features,  including never compromising security  for convenience or speed. Unlike other  services, Cisco turns data sharing off  by default, allowing users to choose  exactly what they are willing to share.  We also have maintained strong  controls to keep meeting rooms secure  and to encrypt all meeting recordings  and transcriptions.  
Because of Cisco s approach to  security and privacy by design, we  were ready to meet critical demand  during these extraordinary times.  As almost every business learned to  navigate a new reality, the end-to-end  security of solutions like Webex gave  our customers one less thing to worry  about so they could focus on staying  connected and productive.  
We consistently uphold  strong values and   strive to make the right  choices in how we  conduct business. 
How we engage 
The foundation of Cisco s Conscious Culture is a steadfast commitment to  maintaining the highest standards of business and professional conduct and  compliance. We consistently uphold strong values and strive to make the right  choices in how we conduct business, which helps us earn the trust of our  customers, governments, and stakeholders around the world.  
Our Code of Business Conduct (COBC) captures our values and expectations of  employees and is a toolkit that they can reference to make business decisions and  resolve potential ethical issues. We are continuously updating the COBC to keep it  up to date, as well as to make it informative and engaging for readers.  
If an employee identifies a concern or has a question that the COBC doesn t answer,  we encourage them to reach out to the Ethics Office, their Human Resources  representative, a member of the Legal team, or their manager. Contact information  for the Ethics Office is available here. We foster a culture in which employees can  speak up with any concerns, without fear of retaliation. We believe that employees  understand our policies and feel comfortable speaking up when necessary. 
Technology plays an increasingly important role in how we gather, act, and report on  concerns shared. It also allows us to prevent potential violations from occurring. Over  the past year, Cisco s Ethics Office made several technology-driven improvements  to our approach.  
Ethics and integrity  
Trust and Responsibility 
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Working Pie Chart 
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
1 Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. 
8  Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. 
2018 2019 2020 
Allegations of misconduct 
Con ict of interest disclosure 
Inquiries made to the  Ethics O ce 
Inquiries made to the  
Inquiries by type  
Ethics Office 
CHART 4:  Inquiries   by Type8 
Trust and Responsibility 
Initiatives to enable progress  
A new communication strategy It s up to the Ethics Office to continually keep ethics issues  and expectations top of mind for employees. To make  ethics-related messages more memorable, we launched a  new communications strategy in fiscal 2020. This included  using digital signage in Cisco s offices to share compliance  and ethics messages in a positive, engaging way.  
To reinforce understanding of our policies, we published  quizzes and polls on Cisco s employee intranet. We also  shared  scrubbed cases,  or real-life examples of violations  that have taken place within the company, with identifying  details removed. This level of transparency gives employees  a greater understanding of ethical conflicts and violations,  as well as the consequences. Cisco is proud to be one   of the few companies to share this type of information with  our employees. 
A new and improved code of business conduct  Our COBC is updated annually, and every employee must  review and certify each year. In fiscal 2020, we made  updates to explain how ethical and compliant behavior  supports a Conscious Culture. The COBC published in fiscal  2020 took this a step further, using interactive e-learning  to reinforce for readers that our policies do not exist in  isolation they must be put to practical use every day.  
The e-learning module accompanying the COBC incorporates  real-life examples and prompts throughout each section to  check understanding. An improved compliance tool allows  us to launch the COBC to a global audience of 75,000  employees with improved efficiency and increased agile  reporting capabilities. 
Reducing risk through proper categorization of gifts  One area in which we are working to improve employee  understanding and compliance is regarding gifts, travel, and  entertainment (GTE) expenses. In our latest COBC update,  we created a simplified list of dos and don ts for gift-giving.  
Working Pie Chart 
Employees must keep special considerations in mind for  public-sector officials, who may have stricter requirements  than private-sector customers for acceptable gifts. However,  it is not always apparent whether a customer belongs to a  private- or public-sector organization, leading to frequent  miscategorization of gifts and possible noncompliance  with local regulations. A new GTE Disclosure Tool and  the SAP Concur expense reimbursement tools allow  employees to search and proactively determine a customer s  organizational affiliation so that they can ensure any gift- giving complies with Cisco s regulations and those of any  country. After the introduction of this new feature, third-party  miscategorizations during the nominal gift-giving process  have decreased from several thousand to almost zero. 
OF INTEREST  Stopping high-risk deals in their tracks  
While the vast majority of our sales are conducted fairly and ethically, rare instances  of fraud, such as discount manipulation, do occur. Beyond hurting Cisco financially,  this behavior violates our COBC and damages our reputation as an ethical company.  
We strive to prevent fraudulent deals from happening, rather than addressing them  after the fact. While we cannot always predict when and where fraud will occur, we  can predict what variables put deals at a higher risk. Starting in fiscal 2020, a new  engine built on a predictive algorithm helps us identify high-risk deals based on  variables such as product type, market segment, partner history and audit findings,  discount trend analysis from recent years, and more. The algorithm generates a  risk score for each deal. This score is sent to Cisco s finance team for additional  review, and Sales Account Managers for additional documentation to prove that  it is legitimate. If Account Managers cannot produce sufficient proof, deals may  be rejected or canceled. In certain situations, the flagged deals will have their  discounts adjusted, which saves Cisco money.  
Following a successful pilot of this high-risk deal engine, we re now rolling out the  tool to all countries where Cisco operates. We re sharing our wisdom and learning  with others. Knowing our industry peers face many of the same challenges that we  do regarding high-risk deals, we have shared this risk-ranking system at multiple  conferences and meetings of industry groups. 
Trust and Responsibility 
Employee relations 
Policy issues 
Con icts of interest 
2 Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. 
9 Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. 
Allegations by type  
Allegations  
Brand protection 
Gift policy concerns 
Other concerns 
Business and human rights 
How we engage 
As technology continues to advance and  open new opportunities for communica- tion and innovation, there is also  increased risk for it to be used in ways  inconsistent with laws or international  norms regarding human rights. Cisco  has long recognized that we have a  responsibility to respect human rights.  We are meeting this responsibility in a  way that reflects the global nature of our  business, the complexity of our supply  chain and selling programs, and the  rapid nature of innovation throughout our  business units. A centralized Business  and Human Rights (BHR) team, formed  in fiscal 2019, leads this work. BHR is  led by our Vice President and Deputy  General Counsel, who reports to our  Executive Vice President, Chief Legal  Officer, and Chief Compliance Officer.  BHR s work builds upon Cisco s  longstanding commitment to human  rights, captured in our Global Human  Rights Policy. This policy acknowledges  our corporate responsibility to respect  human rights as enshrined in the United  Nations Guiding Principles on Business  and Human Rights (UNGPs). 
BHR identifies potential human rights  risks and advises the business on  strategies to prevent, mitigate, and  account for them. It then works across  functions to make these strategies  standard practice. As an internal  clearinghouse for human rights  matters, the team answers questions,  conducts due diligence to inform  business decisions and product  development, and trains employees  who may face human rights challenges  in the course of their daily work. 
We continually revise our Global Human  Rights Policy to strengthen our human  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 30 31 
rights commitment. In fiscal 2020, we  reviewed and updated the list of treaties,  covenants, and global norms that guide  Cisco s approach to human rights,  including the UN Universal Declaration  of Human Rights  the International  Covenant on Civil and Political Rights   the International Covenant on Economic,  Social and Cultural Rights  and the  International Labour Organization (ILO)  Declaration on Fundamental Principles  and Rights at Work. Read more about  Cisco s approach to human rights in the  supply chain. 
Initiatives to enable progress 
Assessing risk across our portfolio Consistent with our commitment to  the UNGPs, we re taking steps to  identify, prevent, mitigate, and account  for human rights risks throughout our  product portfolio. During fiscal 2020, we  assessed three Cisco business units  Security, Collaboration, and Internet of  Things for salient human rights issues.  This exercise included reviews of  product pipelines, interviews with Cisco  leaders, and discussions with external  experts in business and human rights.  The saliency mapping resulted in new  insights and led to recommendations  including additional training, adherence  to global products standards and  prohibiting any customization designed  
Trust and Responsibility Trust and Responsibility 
Supporting social justice 
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR)  guarantees the right to equal protection against  discrimination (UDHR Article 7). In fiscal 2020,  the BHR team worked with teams across Cisco  to articulate Social Justice Beliefs   Actions that  represent a commitment to all groups, and specifically  to the African American Black community in the U.S.  Read Cisco s Social Justice Beliefs and Actions here.  
to increase censorship and ensuring  seamless compliance with all laws  limiting product sales due to human  rights implications. These findings and  recommendations will be integrated into  Cisco s human rights approach, and  the work will continue as we apply this  process to additional business units.  
External engagement on human rights Our thought leadership on technology  and human rights is not limited to the  walls of our company. Cisco subject  matter experts and members of BHR  continue to participate in grassroots  organizations like RightsCon (held  virtually in 2020) and share best  practices through groups like the Article  One Business Roundtable on Human  Rights   AI, and the Business for Social  Responsibility (BSR) Human Rights  Working Group. 
Artificial intelligence machine   learning (AI ML) Recognizing that AI ML systems can  result in legal or human rights  implications for individuals, our BHR  team led a cross-functional group as  part of the overall AI ML Trust Strategy  (see next page) to develop offer  requirements and controls so that our  AI ML solutions are designed with  human rights principles in mind. 
AI ML is redefining our way of life, enabling machines  to do what we once thought only humans could. As  one of the leading providers of network, security, cloud,  analytics, and collaboration solutions, AI ML presents a  powerful opportunity for Cisco. Rapid advancements in  AI ML technology require close attention to ethical and  human rights issues, including security, privacy, fairness,  explainability, transparency, and accountability. At the same  time, both customers and governments are increasingly  concerned about the human rights implications of AI ML   technology. Government regulations and standards are  actively emerging that will require companies to innovate  responsibly. 
We are addressing these issues proactively through our   AI ML Trust Strategy, which leverages expertise across our  engineering, security, privacy, human rights, and customer  trust teams, among others. The Trust Strategy, which kicked  off in 2019, includes a cross-functional effort to develop  internal policies and standards that reflect a responsible  
OF INTEREST  Responsible innovation in AI ML 
approach to AI ML development. The AI ML Trust Strategy  ties in with Cisco s Social Justice Beliefs and Actions. One  of the critical components of the effort is designing relevant  technologies to a set of  fairness  requirements in order to  avoid unintended bias and purposeful violation of human  rights, and to enable access for people with disabilities to   the greatest extent possible. 
We also named an executive sponsor to lead the AI ML Trust  Strategy, and will further strengthen the strategy during fiscal  2021 by reviewing our Cisco Secure Development Lifecycle  (SDL) to adapt it to address unique scenarios that could   arise in an AI ML context. Next, we will conduct a series of  pilots to test these requirements and continue to improve   our approach. 
Our AI ML Trust Strategy will allow Cisco to continue to  innovate, uphold our values, and meet the expectations of  our customers, governments, and other stakeholders. In  turn, we hope to shape industry best practice and the public  discourse on responsible AI ML. 
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Leading a   Conscious   Culture 
Why this matters to our business 
Cisco s relationship with our people is one of mutual benefit: our employees  bring talent and ingenuity to everything we do, from designing products and  solutions and protecting sensitive data to helping us power an Inclusive Future  for all. In turn, we provide employees with meaningful careers and development  opportunities, as well as resources to help them be healthy, empowered, and  purposeful in all aspects of life.  
Cisco has a responsibility to support our people through  times of change and enable them to be their best. We do  this by fostering a Conscious Culture. Living a Conscious  Culture requires us to act with dignity, respect, fairness,  and equity in each of our interactions with one another,  
32 33 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
building a culture that allows us to become a catalyst for  social change. By intentionally creating and cultivating an  inclusive work environment where employees can thrive,  Cisco is helping to bring about a better world. 
higher returns on equity than less  
Gender-diverse organizations  are 45% more likely to improve  market share and achieve 53%  
drives results  
diverse organizations. 
Diversity   
advocate for their careers, are 23% more  likely to advance their careers than those  without. But the practice of sponsorship is  
People with sponsors, or people who  
unevenly distributed in the corporate   world, with white men more likely to   
employees up   
have sponsors than women   
for success 
and minorities. 
The ongoing search  
compensation for many roles, the technology  
sector sees some of the highest rates of  turnover. Employers must set themselves  
apart with more than just a paycheck. 
Given high demand and competitive  
for talent 
What a Conscious Culture means to Cisco  
To power an Inclusive Future for  all, we must achieve a Conscious  Culture within. At its core, a  Conscious Culture means acting  with dignity, respect, fairness, and  equity in our interactions with one  another. It s a culture in which we all  model inclusion and speak up when  we see behavior that s out of step  with our beliefs. 
We began to define Conscious Culture in fiscal 2019 as  a set of expectations, principles, and measures that we  believe best define Cisco s values, beliefs, and ethos.  In a Conscious Culture, we give frequent attention to  ourselves and to those around us. When we pay attention  to ourselves and one another, we can see the strengths  within all of us and harness them for the greater good.  This allows us to design an ecosystem where we can  collectively rally together to make an impact.  
34 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
Leading a Conscious Culture Leading a Conscious Culture 
Conscious Culture has three components:  
Cultures are modeled by a company s beliefs,  
positively impacts people, society, and the  planet is the foundation of a thriving culture.  
Culture is experienced through your work,  
An inclusive, diverse environment that  
behaviors, rituals, and principles.  
your leader, and your teams.  
Characteristics 
Environment 
Experience 
The  characteristics  component of Conscious Culture  includes our Principles, which articulate how employees  can live our culture. These principles are: 
Give your best.   Show a desire to be at your best and connect  with others to share quickly with whomever  needs it. Open your mind to ideas from  everywhere and anywhere. And use those  ideas to build on the possibilities to pour a  little drop of love into our customers  worlds. 
Take accountability.   Whatever comes your way, understand it and  be personally accountable for its success.  Assume the answer is  yes  and that you  don t need to wait in line for permission.  Check the data, but don t let that slow down  taking responsibility. And deliver.  
Give your ego the day off.   It s the best solution our customers need,  not the best-protected Cisco turf, so support  that solution, whatever the background of  the person or team who came up with it.  Have the debate and have a backbone. Make  your point, then commit to what s been  agreed and deliver it with agility and grace. 
Conscious Culture informs all aspects of the Cisco  employee experience from how we support employees  across the full spectrum of diversity to how we engage  teams and give back to communities. On the following  pages, you ll see the many ways that a Conscious Culture  comes to life.  
35 feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Take difference to heart.   We become bigger as individuals and more  powerful as a collective when we respect  and value what makes us so special: our  unique, personal differences. Inclusion will  always beat exclusion. 
Give something of yourself.   A simple smile or  hi  every day is worth its  weight in gold, so don t hide it away. Show  care and consideration to your colleagues,  our customers, our communities, our  partners, and the world we all share. Be  worthy of trust. Be an inspiration. Be delightful  to everyone even if you don t like them. 
Take a bold step.   Whatever your position, show leadership  and courage when it comes to innovating  and disrupting. If it doesn t feel safe, be  secure in the knowledge that shooting for  the stars will always be a part of who we  are. Together we can figure out how to get  there, so let s dream big. 
Inclusion and Collaboration 
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 36 
How we engage 
Inclusion and Collaboration  encompasses our one-of-a-kind  approach to creating a welcoming work  environment for all. Our technologies  are central to our work, allowing  everyone to have a seat at the table,  even if they re not sitting in the same  room. We are embedding our Inclusion  and Collaboration strategy across the  global enterprise. Cisco prioritizes  full-spectrum diversity and inclusion  across the company, recognizing that  connecting people of all experiences  and backgrounds allows us to innovate  and collaborate at new heights.  
Championing a Conscious Culture is  one way Cisco can power an Inclusive  Future from within. As this year has  shown, we have a long way to go to  achieve a society where all people  have equal access to justice, as well  as quality education, healthcare,  job opportunities, and more. We ve  also been powerfully reminded that  
Leading a Conscious Culture Leading a Conscious Culture 
racism in society can take many  forms. It s demonstrated in the horrific  murders of Black men, women, and  nonbinary people and it can also  make its way into the workplace in the  form of unequal representation and  unconscious bias.  
In fiscal 2021, Cisco announced our  Social Justice Beliefs, which inspired  a set of corresponding Actions. The  first set of Actions are a response to  systemic racism and a commitment  to be antiracist in all forms. In line  with this commitment, we ve had  honest, and at times, uncomfortable,  conversations through regular virtual  Check-Ins open to all 75,000   Cisco employees. We continue to  share transparent information about  employee relations concerns a critical  indicator of how much more we still  have to do. 
We ll never stop pushing for justice,  acceptance, and opportunity for all of  our employees, suppliers, partners,  and communities because until we  have a truly inclusive workplace, we  can t create an Inclusive Future for all.  
Initiatives to enable progress 
Encouraging courageous conversations Fostering a culture in which everyone feels welcome means  learning new ways of thinking. In some cases, it can mean  unlearning past attitudes and behaviors that may have  caused harm or made others feel left out. While these  conversations can be uncomfortable, they are a critical way  for us to act according to our beliefs. In fiscal 2020, Cisco  introduced a new Conscious Culture training program that  addresses both workplace harassment and unconscious  bias two issues that greatly affect how we relate to each  other at work. The training was required for all U.S.  employees and will roll out globally in 2021.  
Throughout the year, we supported teams in having  courageous conversations about race relations through  facilitated discussions, training, guides, and resources. We  
The power of proximity 
Bryan Stevenson, founder and Executive Director of the Equal Justice Initiative,  introduced us to the concept of proximity during a fireside chat with Chuck  Robbins during a special company meeting in 2019. In that conversation, he  defined the concept of proximity as getting close to the disfavored and those  who sit on the margins of society. Inspired by his call to action, Cisco began  to leverage proximity as a mechanism for engaging across differences. We  see it as a way to be curious and increase our understanding of injustice and  inequality while allowing us to also develop empathy. Only through curiosity,  proximity, and empathy can true impact and change be realized. 
also introduced new training on topics like inclusive  behaviors and courageous conversations. 
All new training was based on the principles of dialogue  bringing lessons to life by encouraging participants to share  their authentic personal experiences. We put the training into  practice during a company Check-In as we talked about  different perspectives on topics such as COVID-19, racism,  and our business. We offered guidance for engaging with  each other in a proactive and productive way to help create  constructive conversations. Our goal is to orient more  toward conversations that are invitational and allow  participants to exchange and expand their understanding,  rather than closed or restrictive conversations that do not  allow for learning to happen. This guidance allows us to be  our best selves when our differences and opinions are vastly  different. Ultimately, all of us have ownership and a role in  building a truly Conscious Culture together. 
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Transforming the lived experiences of  African American Black employees Cisco regularly looks to our workforce  diversity statistics to understand where  we can improve. In late 2019, we  recognized that our representation of  African American Black employees  was lower than the aspiration we d set  for ourselves. We wanted to close the  gap but more than that, we wanted to  address the root causes that allowed  the gaps to exist in the first place. To  do this, members of our Executive  Leadership Team (ELT) reflected on  their own social identities, explored  how racism manifests in society and  organizations, and discussed the role  that leaders must play to mitigate it.  This Conscious Leadership Experience  took place in early 2020. We then  conducted a session during which  a group of African American Black  employees from all functions and levels  of the company sat down with the ELT  to share candid stories and feedback  about their time at Cisco. 
These experiences were meaningful  examples of engaging in proximity.  As a result of what they d learned,  our leaders asked us to take action.  This led to a 100-Day Sprint with  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
The goal of the 100-Day Sprint was to create  solutions and experiences to tangibly improve  the lived experiences, career trajectories,  and representation across all levels of African  American Black talent at Cisco. 
the goal of creating solutions and  experiences to tangibly improve the  lived experiences, career trajectories,  and representation across all levels of  African American Black talent at Cisco.  We took action to radically improve  the workplace experience for African  American Black employees, with  workstreams including university and  professional recruitment, promotions,  employee listening, leadership  development, sponsorship, reverse  mentoring, and inclusion coaching.  
Within 100 days, we conducted  interviews to capture the authentic  voice of our employees. By focusing  on expanding our talent pipeline, we  achieved the highest percentage of  African American Black hires in the  history of the company. And we set  records for the number of African  American Black women promoted   to Vice President. 
During the 100-Day Sprint, we also  held our first-ever community- focused Talent Expo which was an  opportunity for executives to get to  know our talent. More than 130 Cisco  executives connected with 422 African  American Black employees in Leader  Connect sessions. These sessions  enabled participants to understand  
Leading a Conscious Culture Leading a Conscious Culture 
their strengths and development  opportunities, how to navigate a career  at Cisco, and how to build meaningful  connections with executives.  
Our marquee Next Generation  Leader (NGL) program focuses on  strengthening the employee-manager  relationship between senior African  American Black and Hispanic Latino  talent. In fiscal 2020, we expanded  the program to include more levels. It  is one of the key programs focused on  strengthening the employee-manager  relationship through interracial  dialogue, courageous conversations,  and leadership development. 
Our work is not yet done. We have  announced our intent to further  increase the representation of African  American Black employees, and will  use lessons learned as a blueprint   to promote full-spectrum diversity   at every level. 
Sponsorship is a critical success factor  in developing and advancing diverse  talent. Our global sponsorship research,  which included 900 participants,  revealed that one in six professionals  globally has a sponsor. Because  sponsorship is an always-on behavior  based on appreciating and calling out  the strengths of others, nearly half of  successful sponsorship relationships  are spent building trust. Over time,  this relationship delivers career  benefits for both sponsors and  sponsees. Diverse sponsorship is  particularly beneficial: our findings  show that the best sponsors those  with the highest rates of sponsee  promotion seek out sponsees who  are different from themselves.  
Understanding these benefits, Cisco  has incorporated sponsorship of  African American Black talent into our  Social Justice Beliefs and Actions.  Especially in challenging times, as  conscious leaders, we are all  accountable to help create an inclusive  environment where employees can  thrive. That s why, in 2017, Cisco  introduced The Multiplier Effect, a  pledge that leaders can take to  sponsor a person different from  themselves and support their career  advancement. Since that time, the  pledge has caused Cisco leaders to  take bold, decisive action to open  doors and overcome obstacles to  change the equation for diversity. In  fiscal 2020, we recognized six Vice  Presidents as Multipliers of the Year for  their stand-out commitment to  sponsorship and The Multiplier Effect:  
OF INTEREST  Multiplying the benefits   of sponsorship 
   Denny Trevett, Vice President of  
   Devendra Malladi, Vice President of  
   Chantelle Breithaupt, Vice President  
   Mahesh Chellappa, Vice President of  
Customer Experience, assesses  sponsorship as a measure of  leadership readiness and connects his  team members with sponsors.  
Customer Experience, ensures  women and minority employees are  introduced to The Multiplier Effect.  
of Finance, considers sponsorship a  priority, focusing on it not only within  her own leadership team but also the  teams of her business partners. She  has more than 10 sponsees. 
Engineering, has grown diversity on his  team by 25 percent, as well as the  diversity of leadership across other  organizations in the Service Provider  and Enterprise businesses through his  sponsorship and mentoring.  
100% of vice presidents pledged 
100% of executive leadership team (ELT) pledged 
Cisco leaders at all levels are committed to  building a culture of sponsorship:  
   Mike Solomita, Vice President of  
   Muninder Sambi, Vice President of  
The benefits of sponsorship don t end  with Cisco. We are upgrading our tech  platform so that more people can learn  about sponsorship. Our hope is that they  sign the pledge and join a growing list of  companies committed to taking action. 
26% of directors pledged 
Customer Experience, encourages  and challenges his peers to sponsor  diverse talent. He has set an example  by promoting diverse talent within his  organization, where he was recently  recognized for having the most  diverse team. 
Product Management, ensures his  organization considers diversity in  hiring, team events, and travel  opportunities. He takes pride in  cultivating teams that are supported  and encouraged to grow. 
10% of managers pledged 
Supporting diverse employees at every stage Our efforts to transform the work experience for diverse  employees build upon programs already in place to help  us attract, retain, and develop extraordinary diverse  talent. In fiscal 2020, Cisco continued to have Inclusion  and Collaboration Action Plans for each ELT member.  These plans helped drive accountability and ensured our  continued focus on hiring, promotions, and retention. At the  same time, we focused on our Conscious Culture initiatives  to increase full-spectrum diversity and inclusion and strive  for equity. We continued to address areas where we  found gaps in the representation and lived experience of  underrepresented communities. 
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Leading a Conscious Culture Leading a Conscious Culture 
We partner with more than 20 external diversity and  inclusion-focused organizations to help us attract, develop,  and retain talent, including Executive Leadership Council  (ELC), IT Senior Management Forum (ITSMF), Hispanic IT  Executive Council (HITEC), Simmons Leadership Conference,  Conferences for Women, Grace Hopper, YWCA, Out    Equal, Lesbians Who Tech, Vets in Tech, and many others.  The learning and development solutions offered at Cisco,  and the conferences that we participate in, can increase  an employee s odds of being promoted. For example,  employees who attended HITEC were 2.6 times more likely  to get promoted than nonparticipants. While in-person  events were mostly canceled this year, engagement was not.  From intimate in-person conferences to large-scale virtual  events, over 3000 Cisco employees were able to participate  and benefit from these impactful development programs.  As conferences pivoted to virtual formats in 2020, Cisco  provided technology for many events that allowed diverse  individuals to network and learn.  
We continued leadership development programs for diverse  employees, including NGL and global programs like JUMP  and DARE Women s Development Program. We now have  30 employee resource organizations (EROs), a full listing of  which is available in our ESG Reporting Hub. 
1.1x to 2.6x 
increase in an employee s  odds of being promoted 
development solutions such as:  
    HITEC     JUMP      ELC     Simmons     NGL   
when they participate  in Cisco s learning and  
   Conferences  
    DARE     Diversity  
Maximizing diverse suppliers  potential  Cisco has a global supply base made up of tens of  thousands of suppliers. We aim to continually increase our  supply base s diversity, which can be defined in a number  of ways. The U.S. government encourages its vendors to  source from domestic businesses owned by citizens from   the following disadvantaged categories: 
    Small business 
   Women-owned business 
   Minority-owned business 
   Veteran-owned business 
    Service-disabled veteran-owned business 
   Disabled veteran-owned business  
   Historically underutilized business (HUB)  
While LGBT-owned businesses do not fall under the U.S.  federal government guidelines as a disadvantaged group, we  track inclusion of these businesses as well. In addition, we  ask suppliers to report the diversity of the contingent workers  that they provide to Cisco.  
Cisco s supplier diversity program  develops and provides opportunities  to diverse-owned businesses. 
Cisco s extended workforce 
Supplier employees make up an extended workforce that is more than 17,000 people strong in the U.S. and more than  54,000 globally. We track not only diversity in ownership, but also the diversity of these suppliers  employees. We request  these metrics from our nonmanufacturing preferred suppliers who have more than 50 U.S. individuals at Cisco. This  reporting is part of each supplier s scorecard. In fiscal 2020, 39 preferred suppliers shared diversity metrics. From this data,  we learned that the number of minorities in our contingent workforce increased by 2 percent. The overall representation of  women, minorities, and veterans remains flat from fiscal 2019 at 29 percent of contingent workers. 
When it comes to increasing our diverse supplier spend, our  goal is not only to add more diversity to our roster where  there are gaps, but also to develop existing suppliers so  that they can be as successful as possible. For the past two  years, our executive sponsorship program has been helping  us do exactly that. The program pairs diverse suppliers  with Cisco executives for regular meetings during which  suppliers learn more about Cisco s priorities and receive  coaching and feedback. In fiscal 2020, a cohort of 15 new  suppliers participated, and we refined the program by  adding a robust curriculum and increasing Check-Ins based  on participant feedback. Since launching in the U.S., the  program has expanded to the U.K. In fiscal 2021, we will  launch a U.S.-based program for African American Black- owned businesses, and a program focused on women- owned businesses in India. WEConnect International, an  organization that builds capacity among women business  owners, will continue to help us verify women-owned  businesses worldwide. Through our Social Justice Beliefs and  Actions, we announced additional efforts, including doubling  our percentage spend with diverse suppliers by 2023 and  requiring our preferred indirect suppliers to report on the full- spectrum diversity of their U.S. workforce provided to Cisco. 
Making it easy to choose diverse suppliers  Before an internal buyer can choose a diverse supplier, they  must first be aware that such a supplier exists. This choice  isn t easy or obvious when someone is simply selecting  a product from an online catalog. Cisco has procurement  tools and processes that help us do this. In fiscal 2020,  we partnered with our catalog supplier to add a feature  that highlights products sold by small or diverse-owned  businesses in search results, thereby increasing their  visibility. The supplier has since introduced this feature to its  other business customers. Efforts like these help us create a  stronger pipeline for long-term diverse supplier spend. 
win rate for diverse suppliers  participating in these sourcing  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
opportunities in fiscal 2020  
of competitive procurement  
sourcing opportunities  included at least one   
diverse supplier 
Leading a Conscious Culture Leading a Conscious Culture 
Responsible   Procurement Award 
The Responsible Procurement Award recognizes  a supplier that shares and reflects Cisco s  commitment to diversity, inclusion, and overall  corporate social responsibility. The supplier must  deliver high value and customer satisfaction  combined with strong capabilities, continuous  innovation, high ethical standards, and low risk. The  2020 winner was iTalent Digital, a digital consulting  and software engineering company. iTalent was  recognized for having the highest overall ranking  of U.S. contingent workforce diversity provided to  Cisco. In addition, the company empowers girls  to pursue technology. iTalent s founder, Ren e  La Londe, created a Girls Leadership Academy  Meetup to equip girls across the globe with skills  and confidence to seek leadership roles. They also  partner with the Kodada Institute of Technology and  Science, an all-women engineering school in India. 
Working Pie Chart 
Working Pie Chart 
Working Pie Chart 
Workforce snapshot 
Cisco has published workforce diversity statistics as part of our CSR reporting since 2005. The diversity summary data below  is based on fiscal 2020 data, and a total of 77,000  Cisco employees.  
Note: Values may not total 100% due to rounding. 
 Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. 
 Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. 
White Caucasian 
Hispanic Latino 
African American Black 
Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Native Hawaiian Other Pacific Islander  
Chart title place here 
Chart title place here 
Overall workforce Technical workforce 
Male  Female 
Male  Female 
U.S. by ethnicity 
Global by   
CHART 7: U.S. by   gender 
 Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. 
White Caucasian 
Hispanic Latino 
African American Black 
Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Native Hawaiian Other Pacific Islander  
Chart title place here 
U.S. by ethnicity 
Male  Female 
Global by   
CHART 10:  
Working Pie Chart 
Working Pie Chart 
Note: Values may not total 100% due to rounding. Note: Values may not total 100% due to rounding. 
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
 Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. 
White Caucasian 
Hispanic Latino 
African American Black 
Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Native Hawaiian Other Pacific Islander  
Nontechnical workforce 
Chart title place here 
U.S. by ethnicity 
Male  Female 
CHART 11:  Global by   
CHART 12:  
Leading a Conscious Culture Leading a Conscious Culture 
Working Pie Chart 
Working Pie Chart 
 Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Native Hawaiian Other Pacific Islander  
White Caucasian 
Hispanic Latino 
African American Black 
Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 
Chart title place here 
U.S. by ethnicity 
Male  Female 
CHART 13:  Global by   
CHART 14:  
Working Pie Chart 
Working Pie Chart 
 Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. 
 Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. 
White Caucasian 
Hispanic Latino 
African American Black 
Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Chart title place here 
Chart title place here 
Vice Presidents 
Male  Female 
Male  Female 
U.S. by ethnicity 
CHART 16:  U.S. by   gender 
CHART 15:  Global by   
CHART 17:  
 Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. 
 Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. 
U.S. managers by ethnicity 
White Caucasian 
Hispanic Latino 
African American Black 
Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Native Hawaiian Other Pacific Islander  
Chart title place here 
Chart title place here 
People leaders 
CHART 20:  
Male  Female 
Male  Female 
CHART 19:  U.S. by   gender 
CHART 18:  Global   
Working Pie Chart 
Working Pie Chart 
Note: Values may not total 100% due to rounding. 
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
 Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. 
White Caucasian 
Hispanic Latino 
ELT membership by ethnicity 
Executive Leadership Team 
Chart title place here 
Global ELT  membership   
Male  Female 
CHART 21:  
CHART 22:  
Leading a Conscious Culture Leading a Conscious Culture 
 Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. 
White Caucasian 
Board membership by ethnicity 
Chart title place here 
Cisco Board  Cisco Board members 
Male  Female 
membership   
CHART 23:  
CHART 24:  
M. Michele   
Roderick C.   
Wesley G.   
Chuck   Robbins 
Michael D.   Capellas 
Brenton L.   Saunders 
Mark   Garrett 
Dr. Lisa   
Dr. Kristina M.   
Employee engagement 
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
company Check-Ins hosted   
in fiscal 2020 
How we engage  
We often think about the accountability we have to those who use our technology,  but we must also consider the accountability we have to one another and to  ourselves. Cisco and our employees have a mutual understanding of expectations.  Each employee gives their best  in return, the company provides the support and  resources people need to succeed. 
We re cultivating a Conscious Culture in which we strive to be aware of ourselves  and our work environment and courageously face areas for improvement. This  allows us to get curious about the people around us and open our minds to  different perspectives. In this way, we are building an environment where we  all feel empowered to speak up when we witness something that hurts another  person s work experience an environment where we care for each other,  express ourselves freely, and take the actions that make Cisco a better place.  When we do, we re all better for it.  
While many of our employee engagement programs changed greatly in fiscal 2020,   they are built upon strong and well-established initiatives that have been in place  for years. As evidence of the strength of our culture, Cisco was named the    1 World s Best Workplace by Great Place to Work  in 2019, and once   again in 2020. It s an honor we re immensely proud to claim.  
Leading a Conscious Culture 
Initiatives to enable progress 
Checking in during challenging times  In fiscal 2020, when almost all employees transitioned  to remote work, Cisco s regular company meetings took  on a new purpose and tone. When ELT members called  a company meeting with 30 minutes  notice to share  information from medical experts on COVID-19 safety,  15,000 employees attended and Cisco Check-Ins were  born. These meetings started as a way to focus on  employees  wellbeing, bringing in medical and mental  health experts to join our ELT. They evolved into a forum  where we could talk about anything and everything, from  business updates to social justice to physical and mental  health. Conversations became more informal and more  intense as our entire community became more connected. 
Feedback, through live chats and polling, is an important  part of the Cisco Check-In tradition. Events have been  made accessible to our deaf and hard-of-hearing  employees through a separate broadcast stream that  includes a live ASL interpreter. We re proud of how this  evolution has helped us become more connected, giving  opportunity for more voices to be heard. 
I m proud to be part of this amazing  company that allows for us to change  and adapt to what is going on in the  world, without losing a beat in support   of our partners, customers, distributors.      Cisco employee  
Leading a Conscious Culture 
As a company, together we adapted to the highs and  lows of full-time remote work in fiscal 2020. But for  many employees, working from home was the least  of the adjustments they had to make. Parents are  dealing with school closures doing their best to keep  kids engaged in virtual learning. Some employees are  caring for aging or ill family members, and others are  facing isolation from the ones they love. We are also  universally coping with the loss of time with friends   and the disruption of holidays and other traditions. 
Cisco released a number of resources early in the  COVID-19 crisis to help employees confront these  new challenges. The Students Home and Seniors  Home sites on Cisco s intranet feature resources and  activities for employees caring for school-age children  or older family members, respectively. Because access  to education is one of Cisco s social investment focus  areas, we also provided links to innovative, technology- driven resources from our community partners. 
We found other ways to come together virtually, such  as through  LiveFromHome, a weekly concert series that  collected donations for arts organizations. Each week  had a theme, such as jazz or classical, and featured  performances by artists affected by venue closures  and gig cancellations. We collected over US 27,000 in  donations during eight events. 
OF INTEREST  Reimagining life at home  
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
 WeAreCisco  WeAreCisco is more than a hashtag. It represents our community  through the words and stories of our employees. Engagement across  our We Are Cisco channels, blog, and podcast brings our employees  closer together, and helps would-be employees imagine themselves at  Cisco. Another way we bring current and future employees together is  through the  WeAreCisco  LoveWhereYouWork photography contest,  during which employees invite others to see their Cisco world. In fiscal  2020, we hosted our fifth annual  WeAreCisco  LoveWhereYouWork  contest, during which employees invite the rest of the company into  their homes and lives through photographs that showcase why they love  working at Cisco. This year, for each photo submitted, Cisco donated  US 2 to our partner Global Citizen. A panel of judges selected winners  from 4000 submissions across 10 categories, plus a Grand Prize winner.  
50 51 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Leading a Conscious Culture Leading a Conscious Culture 
Eric Garcia Guzman, a Technical  
Contest Grand Prize went to  
Grand Prize  
The 2020  WeAreCisco  
Consulting Engineer in   Mexico City, Mexico.  
 LoveWhereYouWork   
Encouraging recognition In a Conscious Culture, we are aware of one another s  actions. This includes paying attention to work well done.  During fiscal 2020, we continued to offer our Connected  Recognition program through which employees can say   thank you  to an individual or team with a monetary award.  Employees gave 236,300 Connected Recognition awards  throughout the year. In addition, employees gave 155,764   bravos,  or nonmonetary congratulations.  
We also encourage employees to appreciate each other  for living our principles. Through the Living Cisco program,  people pass virtual tokens of appreciation, and with each  token passed, money is raised for charity. In fiscal 2020, we  raised US 125,000 for community partners. Each quarter, we  focused on a different theme, including Poverty, Hunger, and  Homelessness  Health and Disability  Diversity and Inclusion   and Education and STEM.  
Team development 
How we engage 
We believe in open-ended, self-directed learning,  understanding that each individual knows best what skills and  resources they need to succeed. We also encourage people  to explore job roles and functions outside of their daily work,  creating limitless opportunities for employees to align skills  with strengths and reinvent their careers within Cisco. And we  know that it s never too soon or too late to learn something  new, as we engage with everyone from interns to our ELT on  emerging ways to work and lead.  
We empower not only individuals, but also teams, to  harness their strengths and improve the way we work.  Through virtual and in-person tools for strengthening  manager-employee and interpersonal relationships, we   help teams work in harmony and increase their impact.  A two-way exchange sharing resources with their  employees, and listening closely to their feedback gives  everyone a voice and a stake in our success.  
52 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
Leading a Conscious Culture 
Initiatives to enable progress 
Encouraging lifelong learning  Rather than telling employees what skills they must develop,  we encourage them to be curious and choose their own  paths. Degreed is Cisco s continual learning platform and  unites internal resources with external materials like TED Talks  and LinkedIn Learning courses. The program uses machine  learning to provide personalized content recommendations,  allowing users to select from Cisco-endorsed curricula or  create their own development plans. Leaders can view their  team members  activity, giving them insight into employees   evolving skills and interests.  
Since 2018, more than half of Cisco s employees have  become active Degreed users. We re constantly adding new  content, and the most popular course pathways from fiscal  2020 reflect our changing times:  
active Degreed  
learning resources completed  
increase over fiscal 2019 
in fiscal 2020, a 331%  
Leading a Conscious Culture 
    Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging 101 
    Building Inclusive Behaviors 
    Allyship 101 
    Racial Equality and Justice as Workplace Issues 
    The Multiplier Effect and Sponsorship 
    Courageous Conversations: Equality and Justice 
    Aspiring Leaders Cisco 
    Interrupting Unconscious Bias to Build Inclusion 
    AI and ML: Awareness 
Creating mobility within career paths  People s career interests and goals change over time  and that s a good thing. Instead of expecting employees  to follow specific paths, we encourage them to explore  and learn about new areas of interest. We help make this  easier by offering career shadowing, stretch assignments,  and dynamic team assignments, which allow employees  to see what it s like to work in other departments or work  with different teams on an interesting or innovative project.  These experiences can last anywhere from a few weeks to  a few months and allow people to have fresh experiences  and develop knowledge of new areas without having to  completely change jobs.  
In fiscal 2020, we began organizing Talent Expos, a time  for employees to network, engage with senior leaders,  and learn more about opportunities inside and outside of  their functions. We held five expos during the fiscal year,  including in-person events at Cisco Impact virtual events  for our People and Communities organization and one for  members of our Connected Black Professionals Employee  Resource Organization (ERO). 
53 feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
TABLE 2: Leadership training experiences 
This was the best thing I ve done for my career,  and my coach was absolutely amazing! I am  far more skilled at seeing various perspectives,  considering different ideas from others, and  showing empathy, even when needing to have  tough conversations.      Executive coaching participant 604 
Developing skilled leaders  All of us including leaders at the highest levels have room for improvement.  We offer executive coaching to help leaders be their best. This high-touch,  personalized program starts with an assessment of a leader s career goals and  personality traits. Leaders are then matched with a coach, with whom they meet  virtually or in person to go over new methods of working to make the most of their  own and their team s strengths.  
Other programs designed for Cisco leaders at all levels include:  
54 55 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
What is it? What are its goals?  
New Leader Journey Creating a successful transition into people leadership at Cisco through facilitated sessions, learning  pathways, and an experiential learning environment 
Leader Journey Increasing business impact, enabling a Conscious Culture, and fostering innovative and high-performing  teams through long-term personal growth and development 
Leader Day Providing a forum for leaders to discuss priorities, leadership expectations, and strategies for   the year ahead 
Leader Learning Labs Interactive, immersive, and practical sessions on targeted topics such as hiring, giving effective  feedback, and inclusion 
Leading a Conscious Culture Leading a Conscious Culture 
leaders participated in  
coaching sessions 
Helping teams connect, together or apart  Beyond helping individual contributors and leaders grow and develop as individuals,  Cisco is acutely focused on helping cultivate positive and productive team dynamics.  Strong teams yield business results: Cisco s highest-performing teams are now  retaining employees at almost three times the rate compared with other teams, have  six times higher engagement, and are 20 percent more productive and creative. 
We strengthen teams through tools like Team Space, a platform for both individual  and team collaboration. Users can complete the Standout Assessment, conduct  virtual Check-Ins, ask questions of leadership, and track weekly progress on  projects. We are currently working to develop Team Space Extended, an addition  to the platform that will allow us to quickly prototype and experiment with new data  interfaces, visualizations, and features.  
For teams looking to connect on an even deeper level, we offer Team Health Checks,  which have gone virtual during the COVID-19 pandemic. Team Health Checks are  two, three-hour facilitator-led workshops designed to help our teams adapt to  new ways of working together and prioritize actions and rituals to grow stronger.  Facilitators discuss topics related to group dynamics, including trust, communication,  and decision-making. In fiscal 2020, we conducted 554 Team Health Checks. 
Team Space Check-Ins submitted 
27% increase from fiscal 2019 
18% increase from fiscal 2019  
Check-Ins during fiscal 2020 
of employees submitted   
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
of leaders launched an  Engagement Pulse in   
Q4 fiscal 2020 
28% more than   Q4 fiscal 2019  
Remaining open to feedback  We have two companywide forums for  collecting feedback. At the team level,  we use the Engagement Pulse survey.  Cisco uses the results to help improve  the employee experience and increase  engagement. In fiscal 2021, Team Space  Extended upgrades will deliver additional  intelligence on the link between Team  Space Check-Ins and Engagement  Pulse responses, helping team and  organization leaders to understand  how engaged their employees are, and  to identify the processes that support  increased engagement. 
Leading a Conscious Culture Leading a Conscious Culture 
While Engagement Pulse surveys  provide insight about specific teams,  the Real Deal Survey is designed to  elicit the top themes emerging across  the company. Through these surveys,  we learned that employee confidence  in, satisfaction with, and trust in their  direct leaders increased when leaders  connected with them in the prior week.  We also learned that 80 percent of  employees who completed the Real  Deal Survey were satisfied with Cisco s  response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Developing Cisco interns even without an office  
Creating the ideal virtual internship  experience became our mission.  
  Macy Andrews, Cisco Senior Director of Global  
OF INTEREST 
During the summer of 2020, hosting an internship program  was complicated among U.S. companies, nearly   40 percent of summer internships were canceled. But it  wasn t impossible.  The entire company looks forward to   our interns  arrival, and when the pandemic hit we had to  decide whether we d do things differently or throw in the  towel as well,  says Macy Andrews, Cisco Senior Director  of Global University Recruiting and Employer Branding.  And  since we never do anything like anyone else, creating the  ideal virtual internship experience became our mission.   
For many college students, a summer internship is an exciting  professional debut. It s a time to learn new skills, but also to  get a sense of office culture and begin to develop a network.  But what if your office is your bedroom, and networking  amounts to exchanging messages with colleagues thousands  of miles away?  
University Recruiting and Employer Branding 
In developing a strategy for our virtual internship program,  we focused on recreating the experiences that make Cisco  internships special. While interns wouldn t have desk space  on Cisco campuses, we helped them create an office at  home, providing stipends for resources like desks, chairs,  and high-speed Internet. To replace some of the hands-on  experience that interns might have gotten on the job, we  created an e-learning module that explained all the tools,  systems, and processes they d need to be productive. 
Most importantly, we wanted to create a sense of connection.  We wouldn t be able to have team outings to dinners, bowling,  or sporting events, so we focused on building community  online. Using Webex Teams, we created chat rooms that  students could use to connect before their internships started.  Once the program began, we hosted regular happy hours,  an executive speaker series, and even a virtual dance party  fondly referred to as the Cisco Disco. 
It may not have been what they expected but interns still  created connections and found the experience worthwhile.    I feared I would miss an important meeting or get left behind  due to the virtual setting,  says Carl Hubbard, an HR intern.   I couldn t have been more wrong. During my internship I felt  supported in more ways than I could ve imagined.   
Says Hubbard,  I think the most challenging times reveal a  company s true values. Cisco has continued to impress me  in these trying times as their culture thrives and I can see the  support system in action.  
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Health and wellbeing 
How we engage 
In a Conscious Culture, we recognize  that we all come from different  backgrounds and perspectives.  At Cisco, we find power in those  differences. Our unique stories make  us better together. We welcome and  honor every employee s journey  whether it includes caring for a loved  one or plans to start a family. Whether  they re saving for that dream house  or ideal retirement. Whether they re  managing depression or struggling with  stress or anxiety. At Cisco, we offer  solutions to help with whatever our  people are facing.  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
When we look for solutions that  can best support our employees,  we focus on the whole person. We  realize that employees are balancing  careers and personal lives, all  while managing their own physical,  emotional, and financial health. With  the emergence of the COVID-19  pandemic, they ve had to do this while  learning to stay healthy, parent, and  connect in new ways. We re in awe  of their resilience and are committed  to being here to support them with  personal and comprehensive benefits  and solutions. 
Cisco is proud to offer a comprehensive suite of  benefits that support every life stage, champion  every family, help employees make a meaningful  impact, and make wellness a priority. Discover  more about the benefits available to all our  employees around the world, as well as unique  regional offerings, on the ESG Reporting Hub. 
Leading a Conscious Culture 
One way we re doing this is by  changing the story around mental  health. We seek to create an  environment where we can all speak  openly about mental health, listen with  compassion, and ask for help without  fear of judgment. In fiscal 2020, we  made changes to further support  employees  mental health, and we  continue to expand our offerings and  their accessibility through technology.  
These investments in our employees  and their wellbeing enabled Cisco  to move quickly and nimbly to offer  support as they transitioned to full-time  remote work. 
Initiatives to enable progress 
Compassionate care during COVID-19  Cisco developed a COVID-19 response and recovery  strategy with a special focus on families and communities.  Our People and Communities organization quickly launched  a global pandemic website as a single source of information  to help employees stay informed and navigate the many  resources available to support them, which included:  
Physical health  
    On our global pandemic website, employees who  
    Our onsite LifeConnections Health Centers in San  
    LifeConnections Fitness centers leveraged Webex  
    Cisco has invited medical doctors and mental health  
    Our wellbeing partner, Pavelka, hosts frequent  
believe they have been exposed to COVID-19 can reach  out for information on symptoms and steps to take.  
Jose, California  Research Triangle Park, North  Carolina  and Bangalore, India remain open, giving  employees access to medical care if they need  it. Additionally, the health center doctors provide  COVID-19 consultations, tests, and care management  for all employees and contractors.  
technology to quickly move to a virtual model, allowing  all employees and their families to participate in online  fitness classes from anywhere. 
webinars on hot topics like dealing with uncertainty,  courage, and active listening. They also created  a library of fitness and mindfulness videos to help  address the challenges of working remotely. 
experts from around the world to appear during  multiple Cisco Check-Ins to answer employee  questions and to help them process the latest  information about COVID-19.  
Leading a Conscious Culture 
Mental health  
    Globally, the Employee Assistance Program (EAP)  
    Taking time to recharge is important for one s mental  
    Cisco Canada and the Centre for Addiction and Mental  
    In the U.S., Cisco added two new solutions available  
Health (CAMH), Canada's largest mental health teaching  hospital, successfully expanded their partnership to  meet demand for virtual mental health services.  
offers up to 10 free in-person or virtual counseling  sessions. Employees can even search for providers  based on preferred gender, ethnicity, and experience. 
health. That s why Cisco closed our offices around  the world and offered all employees  A Day for Me   unexpected paid days off in May, July, and August.  With everyone taking the day off, employees and  contractors could truly step away from work without  fear of missing out. 
through our personal health coaching partner, Vida  Health. Employees can now partner with a licensed   Vida therapist to address the symptoms of anxiety   and depression, and any underlying issues when   and where they need it. They can also enroll in the   Vida Resilience program to increase adaptability and  self-compassion and experience the many benefits   of resilience. 
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Family care 
    Employees have the peace of mind to step away from  
    With regular care unavailable for most, Cisco enhanced  
    In late spring and early summer, we were proud to offer  
    U.S.-based parents whose children have started  
    Anticipating that many of us will be caregivers at some  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
free childcare for first responders across the U.S. and  in our very own LifeConnections Child Learning Centers  in San Jose. We ll be expanding our services to the  children of our employees and contract workforce,  offering supervised learning outside the home.  
work to deal with a critical, unforeseen event with our  paid Emergency Time Off (ETO). Whether dealing with  a personal crisis, a sudden illness of a family member,  or the death of a loved one, employees can take time  off without having to dip into their regular vacation or  Paid Time Off (PTO).  
our in-home care offering for both children and adults  in the U.S., U.K., and Ireland. We have temporarily  increased the maximum days from 20 to 30 (through  the end of 2020). 
the school year virtually have the option of enrolling  their children in a day camp at our San Jose office  or KinderCare facilities nationwide, where trained  educators supervise students  virtual learning, provide  homework help, and organize daily schedules.  
point, we have introduced a Caregiving Concierge  service for U.S. employees. A dedicated Care  Coordinator gets to know a family s story and can  help manage financial, legal, in-home, housing, and  emotional support needs.  
Leading a Conscious Culture Leading a Conscious Culture 
Financial health  
    We continued to provide resources and education  
    Our new partner, MetLife Pre-Paid Legal Plans, offered  
to meet the needs of our diverse global workforce,  including helping with issues like saving for emergencies,  managing debt, and preserving financial wellbeing. 
free services to all U.S. employees to help with legal  issues related to COVID-19.  
Ensuring that no one goes it alone  Our CEO, Chuck Robbins, isn t afraid to talk about mental  health. Both his words and the open dialogue fostered  at each of our all-company meetings move us closer to  removing the stigma surrounding mental health. But this tone  from the top is just the start. In the U.S., where access to  in-network providers can be difficult, we enhanced our out- of-network benefit for substance abuse and mental health  treatment. We increased the free EAP counseling visits from  8 to 10. Our Cisco Mind Set program has helped employees  develop mindfulness and resilience in the workplace through  simple cognitive strategies. Previously available only in the  U.S., this program is now available to employees worldwide.  
Sharing stories and talking with others who understand  mental health issues can be an important way to develop  coping strategies and reduce the stigma. Through our  online Safe to Talk community, employees can connect with  each other, share stories, and access resources. Currently,  more than 300 people actively participate.  
Through Cisco Mind Set, I have learned to limit multitasking,  giving more focus to the tasks at hand. Practicing kindness  during meetings has also helped me focus on each person  and really listening to their input. Mindfulness exercises have  reduced my stress levels at work.      Cisco employee  
Expansion of the Cisco Pavelka wellbeing initiative  Cisco Pavelka started as a grassroots movement in the  EMEAR region to help promote a culture of health and  wellbeing. Cisco recently expanded this initiative to  employees across APJC, Latin America, and Canada.   Cisco Pavelka empowers employees to make healthy   choices and create communities that inspire and motivate   each other to make small and sustainable changes. The  initiative is driven by employees who are passionate about   sharing and showing wellbeing and Cisco leaders who  encourage participation. Over 15,000 employees have  participated in the various activities across the globe. 
Creating healthy habits anywhere  
OF INTEREST 
Across the U.S., four in 10 adults have two or more chronic  diseases. Making healthy choices, like exercising regularly or  eating nutritious foods, can reduce the risk and severity of  these conditions, which can impact quality of life. For many of  us, making the best choices for our health is easier said than  done. Vida Health, our health coaching partner in the U.S.,  helps make it simpler with their innovative app and expertise. 
Vida combines technology and human-centered design,  empathy, and compassion to help employees and their  families reach and maintain their wellness goals through  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
Vida Health s holistic approach to wellbeing, and the integrated  partnership of my health coach and therapist, has helped  me address the emotional barriers to finding my healthy.  I ve learned self-compassion when I fall off track and have  discovered the value of self-care. I m inspired and grateful for  all the support in making my health a priority.  
   Cisco employee 
Leading a Conscious Culture 
one-on-one support and a customized plan. With a proven  research-based approach, Vida Health coaches are available  to support individuals with eating better, improving fitness,  getting restful sleep, creating an exercise routine, preventing  diabetes, getting support for anxiety or depression, and  building resilience. Users meet regularly with their coach  or therapist through video or phone consults and in-app  messages. They can also use tools within the app to log  meals, exercise, and sleep, and track their progress over time.  
Our progress: Achieved. Thanks to an inclusive approach, combined with  digitization and data analytics, more than 63,000  employees took action, contributing US 33 million  and 491,000 volunteer hours, as well as taking actions  across a suite of global programs. We re proud of our  success, but the real accomplishment is the difference  we ve made in communities around the world.  
Data Analytics 
Goal:  Achieve 80% community impact participation,  as measured by employees  actions, including  advocating for causes they care deeply about,  volunteering, donating, and participating in programs  that positively impact communities by 2020.  
Digitization 
Employee community impact 
How we engage 
In fiscal 2020, Cisco brought to life a transformational new approach to engaging  employees in community impact. Cisco takes a point of view that goes beyond  traditional donations and volunteer events. We include a broad spectrum of actions  employees can take to make a positive impact on people, society, and the planet.  Our inclusive approach combined with digitization and data analytics is the catalyst  for explosive growth in employee participation and impact in our communities. 
Through an integrated digital platform called the Community Impact Portal,  employees are invited to participate in a suite of opportunities with a definable,  positive value for communities. Employees  actions include advocating for causes  they care deeply about, taking action to help the environment, volunteering,  donating, and participating in integrated programs. All actions are evaluated to  ensure they drive positive impact external to Cisco.  
In fiscal 2020, digitization came together with data analytics and the principles  of behavioral science to encourage participation. For example, Cisco s intranet  displayed a feature personalized to each employee indicating whether they had  taken a community impact action and providing participation percentages for  their team and Cisco as a whole. The feature also nudged employees with a  link to the portal and opportunities to make an impact. Toward the end of the  fiscal year, a Community Impact chat bot in Webex Teams personally reminded  employees to take action if they had not already done so.  
Leading a Conscious Culture 
FY18 FY17 FY19 FY20 
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Community impact participation 
Community impact participation 
101% of goal  achieved   in FY20 
We also used a digital dashboard to provide leaders with a  near real-time view of team participation and actions. On  the Community Impact Leadership Insights view, leaders can  compare their team s participation with that of their business  group, their geographic region, and Cisco overall. 
With this new approach, we exceeded our goal of 80 percent  employee participation in community impact in fiscal 2020,  growing year-over-year by 59 percent. Employee actions  included generating more than US 33 million and matching  contributions globally through giving and volunteering, a   31 percent increase over the previous year.  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Volunteer Time Off, matched  volunteer hours, team events  
Environmental actions on  
virtually and in person 
action programs Survey sharing Environmental   sustainability 
Cisco GreenHouse 
Volunteering 
Employees made a positive impact across   
a diverse suite of programs 
Leading a Conscious Culture 
Employee action to initiate a  corporate charitable donation 
Contributions reported for   
Integrated   
matching gifts 
As we look to the year ahead, we continue to evolve  community impact by expanding to engage Cisco customers,  partners and suppliers through our Next Horizon Impact   initiative. We are also laying the groundwork for an innovative  new way to measure employee actions to further drive  community impact as a regular, ongoing part of what it  means to work at Cisco. The new approach, called Employee  Community Impact (ECI), is designed to help teams  understand how many, how much, and how often they are  taking actions to benefit people, planet, and society. We will  begin using ECI as a primary measure for community impact  to ensure our focus on making a positive impact is  always  on  at Cisco. 
Signing petitions, pledges to  
Self-reported employee  
Digital advocacy 
act at GlobalCitizen.org 
impact stories 
Initiatives to enable  progress 
Taking action during a   global pandemic Cisco employees continue to seek ways  to make an impact, especially during  this difficult time. We made this easier  by doubling the number of paid days  off available for employees to volunteer  from five to 10 in 2020. In addition,  we increased the annual match for  employee giving and volunteering from  US 10,000 to US 25,000. Disaster  response campaigns launched to  address specific crises are matched at  US 10,000 per employee per campaign  and do not count against the annual  match limit. 
In addition, Chairman and CEO Chuck  Robbins challenged Cisco s 77,000   employees to make donations to global  nonprofits supporting those most  vulnerable to COVID-19, which were  matched by the Cisco Foundation.  Employees quickly achieved the initial  goal of US 750,000 in giving and  matching over a 72-hour period,  raising US 3.2 million for more than   50 organizations by the end of the  fiscal year. 
In response to employee demand,  Cisco also helped facilitate a menu  of virtual volunteering options.  Opportunities included translating  texts for humanitarian organizations,  volunteering for crisis help lines,  providing r sum  and job interview  assistance, donating food and school  supplies for children, and more. 
Standing up for social justice  In fiscal 2020, Cisco pledged   US 5 million in grants to social justice  organizations, including nonprofits  in our internal Fighting Racism and  Discrimination Fund, which continues  to provide employee donations and  matching contributions to 16 nonprofits  focused on social justice. A dynamic  team, including ERO members, is  partnering with Cisco s Community  Impact team to determine how best to  build long-term relationships with the  nonprofits in the Fund. 
Preventing homelessness and   serving youth Long-time Cisco nonprofit partner  Destination: Home, a public-private  partnership working to end and prevent  homelessness year-round in Santa  Clara County, California, proactively  set up a relief fund designed to help  families bridge the gap created by  lost jobs during the pandemic. They  received thousands of applications  that all needed rapid review. Cisco  volunteers helped accelerate the  
Leading a Conscious Culture 
application review process and  payment by receiving training and then  reviewing the applications for funding.  
Cisco also has a strong partnership  with Covenant House International, an  organization providing housing and  supportive services to youth facing  homelessness. In November 2019,  hundreds of Cisco employees slept  outside during the Covenant House   sleep out  in cities across the U.S.  Sleep outs raise awareness about youth  homelessness and funding to support  Covenant House programs. During the  event, Cisco employees generated over  US 1.8 million in support for Covenant  House through their donations and  Cisco Foundation matching gifts. 
In March 2020, Cisco employees helped the Young  Professionals Sleep Out event go virtual, allowing  communities across the U.S. to connect through a live- streamed Webex event. During the broadcast, participants  learned just how difficult the COVID-19 outbreak has been  for homeless youth already facing extraordinary challenges.  
Through Cisco s Next Horizon Impact initiative, Cisco  Chairman and CEO Chuck Robbins brought together  customers, partners, and suppliers to raise tens of  thousands of dollars for people in the Bay Area experiencing  homelessness as the COVID-19 crisis began. Robbins led a  discussion featuring Jen Loving, CEO of Destination: Home,  who shared the crisis facing the region s most vulnerable.  
Chief People and Communities Officer Francine Katsoudas  led a second wave of outreach and discussion with partners  and suppliers, along with CEO of Great Place to Work  Michael Bush, Loving, and Covenant House California CEO  Bill Bedrossian. Bush shared how companies who treat  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Leading a Conscious Culture 
Leading a Conscious Culture 
communities well differentiate themselves in the market  and will lead as we build a path out of the crisis and back  to a thriving economy. These conversations led to an  increase in awareness and key relationships as a result of  Next Horizon Impact, which will lead to more resources for  the homeless community. 
Global Citizen impact Global Citizen is focused on ending extreme poverty by  2030. As Global Citizen s technology partner, Cisco is  foundational to the organization s ability to engage millions  of citizens around the world our employees among  them. In fiscal 2020, over 1200 employees took action  on GlobalCitizen.org to advocate for changes in policy,  legislation, and leadership behavior to address the root  causes of poverty. Actions included signing a petition,  sending an email, or participating in social media campaigns. 
Security and Trust gets proximate to their community  through BridgeToComputing 
OF INTEREST 
2020 CSR Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
Showing kids a  different path 
Watch video 
The Research Triangle Park region of North Carolina is named for the many  top universities, research institutes, and innovative companies, including Cisco,  that call it home. The area s population, on average, is among the most highly  educated in the country, leading to higher salaries and greater financial security.  But these educational and economic advantages are not evenly distributed, with  African American Black residents who make up a quarter of the Research Triangle  population facing high levels of poverty and unemployment.  
Historical and pervasive racial and economic inequalities in Black communities  have increased the risk of gang activity in cities like Raleigh, where North Carolina  State University is located. That s why the university, along with Cisco, the   Raleigh Police Department, and the city of Raleigh, is offering kids a different path.  BridgeToComputing is a summer STEM education program for middle schoolers  thought to be at risk. Over a three-week period, kids learn the basics of networking  and computer science and participate in panel talks and job shadows to explore  educational and career possibilities. Thanks to funding from Cisco, campers in  summer 2019 were provided transportation to and from campus, along with  laptops that they could use to continue learning after camp ended.  
Members of the Cisco Security and Trust Organization volunteered as counselors  and mentors for BridgeToComputing. The impact of their presence on the students  was clear.  I think this means a lot, especially when you re growing up in a  neighborhood where you don t see this all the time,  says Letita Martin, a Cisco  analyst and BridgeToComputing volunteer.  Just spending some time to sit down  and talk and really get to know these students can take them places that they ve  never been before.  
Leading a Conscious Culture 
Staying Earth Aware, virtually  Cisco has observed Earth Day for many years but we  also do much more, organizing a two-month employee  volunteerism and awareness campaign that we call Earth  Aware. During a typical year, we invite employees to practice  sustainable behaviors, like biking to work and properly sorting  waste in cafeterias, and host events like on-campus farmers  markets. In fiscal 2020, Earth Aware went fully online,  featuring virtual presentations on living a zero-waste lifestyle,  environmental justice, and cleaning local watersheds, as  well as a sustainability trivia event. We even gave employees  a virtual tour of the new beehives at our Research Triangle  Park campus. 
Earth Aware 2020 also included a virtual SustainX, our  thought leadership forum on sustainability. During this annual  event, we invite internal executives to share what their  teams are doing to reduce their environmental impact and  external speakers to discuss the innovative ways they are  working to improve the environment. In fiscal 2020, leading  environmentalist and author Paul Hawken shared existing  strategies for drawing down carbon from the atmosphere  in order to reduce global warming, and a Cisco Fellow  explained how our new 8000 Series routers save significant  amounts of power and materials. 
68 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Leading a Conscious Culture 
Leading a Conscious Culture Leading a Conscious Culture 
Cisco has ongoing opportunities  for employees to connect with  peers who share a passion for  sustainability and make changes in  their lives and in the workplace.  
Living sustainably year-round Beyond Earth Aware, Cisco has ongoing opportunities for  employees to connect with peers who share a passion  for sustainability and make changes in their lives and  in the workplace. Cisco Green is a hub on our internal  social media site that enables employees to learn about  Cisco s environmental sustainability activities. It provides  links to programs, information, and other tools. For those  looking to connect with others, Cisco GreenHouse is an  interactive sustainability web platform that helps Cisco  employees find likeminded peers worldwide who want to  lead more sustainable lives. As a core program featured in  Community Impact, Cisco GreenHouse was promoted on  the companywide digital portal and more than doubled   its active users. 
Promoting circular business models Another way Cisco contributes to sustainability is by helping  advance the circular economy. To grow awareness and  inspire employees to contribute to Cisco s circular economy  transformation, we publish a quarterly circular economy  newsletter, manage a circular economy Webex Teams  space, and provide other opportunities to engage throughout  the year. In fiscal 2020, we hosted two employee webinars  on topics related to circular operations and circular design  and launched an internal website with case studies on the  Cisco Circular Design Principles. We also regularly convene  extended team members and other internal stakeholders  through a variety of workgroups, including the Circular Design  Working Group, the Circular Economy Regional Leader  Network, and the Circular Economy Sales Champion Network.  
It s really important to me to do good deeds, not just for  Cisco, but for all of society. I work with major suppliers to  make sure that they are meeting our standards for labor  practices and environmental risks. If we think a supplier isn t  following our standards, I make sure to explain to them how  serious this is, not only for Cisco, but also for them. But we  also don t just prevent risks, we promote positive practices,  like our zero waste initiative in the supply chain.      Tommy Hwa   ODM Partner Manager (Taipei, Taiwan) 
Connecting employees to how products are made Launched in fiscal 2020, the Cisco Responsible Sourcing  campaign is raising internal awareness of our commitment   to source products ethically and sustainably. One element  of the campaign is our Champions of Sustainability, a  recognition program that highlights the people behind  responsible sourcing at Cisco across our Supply  Chain Operations and Global Procurement Services.  The champions demonstrate a shared commitment  to sustainability and drive social and environmental  responsibility in how we source goods and services. 
We also developed a supply chain human rights training to  raise awareness and educate employees on how they can  help follow through on our human rights commitments. More  than 2400 employees have taken the training, including  employees in supply chain operations, customer experience,  enterprise networking, and cloud.  
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Environmental  Impact 
remote work  Why this matters to our business 
There are many ways  in which the IT industry  can help lower carbon  emissions.   
High-definition video collaboration  tools can replace face-to-face  meetings, reducing the need for  travel. Energy monitoring and control  of IP-enabled devices can reduce  buildings  energy consumption.  AI-driven data processing can help  businesses make informed decisions  to operate more efficiently.  
70 71 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
At the same time, all of that data its  transmission, storage, encryption, and  retrieval requires significant amounts of  power. While advanced collaboration  and cloud technologies have unlocked  innovations that would have been  unthinkable just a few years ago, they  also require increasing amounts of  bandwidth, and therefore, more energy.  
An Inclusive Future is one that takes  everyone even future generations  into account. It s one where our  planet s limited resources are used  sustainably so that both people and  ecosystems can thrive for years to  come. Cisco wants to make the  benefits of digitization available to all,  
but this work cannot come at the  expense of a livable planet. That s why  we re reducing our own emissions and  driving product innovation that will help  us lessen the IT industry s impact.  
A sustainable future requires more than  emissions reduction. We are also  working across our value chain to create  a circular economy and reduce our water  use and waste generation. Learn more  about Cisco s Circular Economy and  Supply Chain Sustainability efforts   and view comprehensive data and  information on Cisco s environmental  approach in our Environment Technical  Review (ETR). 
2020 has provided a test case in remote  work on a massive scale. While working  from home can save energy and reduce  
eliminating commutes and the need for  office space, the potential savings vary,  
The dynamics of  
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by  
based on a number of factors. 
The technology sector is also helping lead the renewable  energy transition by procuring nearly 30 billion kilowatt-hours  of green power per year, combined. These investments  include onsite solar and procurement of green power  through local utilities. 
Investing in green energy  
Internet of the future  
efficiency have allowed for the increases in  
Between 2010 and 2018, traffic through  
traffic with relatively modest increases   in electricity consumption but further  
data centers increased up to sixfold.  Improvements in data center energy  
Powering the   
progress is needed. 
Sustainability in operations 
72 73 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Our progress: On Track. Our renewable energy purchases, plus over 440 energy  efficiency projects completed at our facilities, over the last  5 years, are putting us well on the path toward achieving  this goal. We reached a 55% reduction in FY20. 
Goal:  Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG  emissions worldwide by 60% absolute by  FY22 (FY07 baseline). 
How we engage 
Reducing our energy use and GHG emissions is an issue of high importance to our customers,  employees, and company leadership, and is therefore one of our top material issues. As a large, global  company and a significant energy user, we have a responsibility to decrease our emissions. Since  2007, we have been setting and achieving goals to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions according to  international guidelines.  
Within Cisco s direct operations, our main source of emissions is the energy required to operate labs and  data centers. We are working toward goals to reduce these Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 60 percent by  fiscal 2022 compared to a fiscal 2007 baseline, and to use electricity generated from renewable sources  for at least 85 percent of our global electricity by fiscal 2022. As of the end of fiscal 2020, we have reduced  emissions by 55 percent, and used electricity generated from renewable sources for 83 percent of our global  electricity demand (read more in the ETR). 
The unique approach of our Global Energy Management and Sustainability (GEMS) team has driven progress  toward achieving our Scope 1 and 2 GHG reduction goals. The GEMS team is responsible for all energy and  sustainability initiatives across our 19 million square feet of global real estate. The team operates a holistic  program for utilities, energy efficiency, and renewable energy, ensuring that they complement, rather  than compete with, one another. The team approaches energy and emissions reductions from both ends,  reducing energy demand through efficiency projects while increasing our supply of renewable energy.  
Environmental Impact Environmental Impact 
-45% -49% -55% 
2018 2019 2020 
Percentage reduction in  Scope 1 and 2 emissions  
Title of chart here  
CHART 26:  
Goal Cisco solutions for  
In fiscal 2020, the GEMS team completed 44 projects that  avoid approximately 19.3 GWh of energy consumption and  8600 metric tonnes CO2e. Over the last five years, we ve  implemented over 440 projects through our EnergyOps  program that avoided 140 GWh of energy and 62,000 metric  tonnes of CO2e. To meet our fiscal 2022 sustainability goals,  the team is investing US 45 million between fiscal 2018  and fiscal 2022 to implement hundreds more efficiency and  renewable energy projects.  
The GEMS team is also focused on reducing water use   and waste generation in our facilities. While we have yet   to set public waste and water goals, we have implemented  a number of water efficiency and waste reduction efforts  around the globe that are conserving our resources and  reducing waste. We ve also piloted a number of sustainability  measures at our Research Triangle Park campus in North  Carolina, one of our largest campus locations.  
2.5 million 
buildings comprising  
LEED-certified   
square feet   of real estate 
The technology that Cisco sells can  
also help our customers reduce  their emissions, save on energy  
environmental impact  
Learn more in IT Solutions. 
costs, and more.  
Initiatives to enable progress 
Progress on renewable power We re taking a thoughtful approach to procurement of  renewable energy, applying a hierarchy that favors purchases  that have the greatest positive impact. Our first priority is  to invest in onsite power projects at our facilities, keeping  power generation as local as possible. Our second priority  is procuring renewable energy from offsite power projects  through power purchase agreements (PPAs) or green power  utility programs. Among offsite opportunities, we prefer  those that are local and add new renewable power to the  grid. If onsite and offsite power options are not feasible, we  purchase renewable energy credits, sourced from the nation  where the energy will be used.  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Our progress: On track. New long-term and short-term renewable energy contracts  
have allowed us to achieve 100% renewable electricity in  
the U.S. and parts of Europe, and 60% in India. Globally, we  
reached 83% renewable in FY20. 
Goal:  Use electricity generated from renewable sources  for at least 85% of our global electricity by FY22. 
Environmental Impact Environmental Impact 
In fiscal 2020, Cisco signed our first long-term wind energy  PPA, which is our third overall long-term renewable PPA  contract. We are sourcing 10 MW of electricity from the  Mesquite Star wind farm in Texas, which is helping power  our data centers in Richardson and Allen, Texas, supplying  approximately 40 percent of Cisco s electricity consumption  in the state.  
In addition, we increased our use of renewable energy in India,  signing eight short-term (two- to three-year) renewable deals  in fiscal 2020. Coupled with two long-term solar deals signed  in fiscal 2018, these recent deals will bring our total electricity  usage sourced from renewables in all of India to 60 percent.  These purchases are particularly significant given that much of  India s power grid still relies on coal and diesel. We re proud  to help contribute to a cleaner national grid while making  progress toward our energy and emissions goals. 
2018 2019 2020 
Percentage of electricity from  
renewable sources  
Title of chart here  
CHART 27:  
Managing our water use Even though Cisco does not use significant amounts of water in our direct  operations, we understand the importance of reducing water consumption as  much as we can in our operations and supply chain. It s essential to protect this  limited resource, not only for our business needs, but also for the sake of the  communities in which we operate, because access to clean, fresh water is a  critical human need. Cisco s water strategy is to:  
    Benchmark and report water use and risks. We use industry best practices and  
    Conserve water in our direct operations, focusing on water-scarce and water- 
    Work toward setting long-term water goals at our major campuses. In fiscal 2020,  
the World Resource Institute s Aqueduct tool to understand how much water we  use and where it comes from. Our primary uses of water in our direct operations  are in cooling towers, for irrigating landscapes, and providing drinking water,  sanitation, and hygiene services for our employees. While our manufacturing  partners  primary use of water is similar to Cisco s, some of our components  suppliers rely on water for production. This has prompted Cisco to address   water risks within the supply chain. Read more on our ESG Resource Hub. 
stressed locations. We ve implemented a number of water efficiency projects  over the last few years, such as upgrading our irrigation controllers and installing  high-efficiency water fixtures that reduce water usage in our bathrooms and  kitchens. We also implemented a comprehensive water management system at  our campus in Bangalore, India, that includes a rainwater harvesting system, an  evaporative cooling system, and two sewer treatment plants. 
we met our first water neutrality target for our campus in Research Triangle Park  (RTP). The next phase of our water stewardship journey is to develop water goals  for our other major campuses and partner with organizations to develop more  innovative water restoration projects around the world as we look to expand  our water neutrality ambitions beyond RTP. We are preparing for this initiative by  performing water audits and upgrading key water infrastructure in these locations. 
Other ways we support   water conservation 
Cisco makes grants to nonprofits addressing  critical human needs such as availability of clean  drinking water. See how our partner Akvo uses  mobile apps to monitor water services in Africa. 
3394 3299 3183 
FY18 FY19 FY20 
Total water discharged  Total water consumed 
Total water withdrawn 
Total water withdrawn (m3, thousands) 
(m3, thousands) 
CHART 28:  
Diverting waste from landfill   in our operations Cisco is committed to responsibly  managing our waste throughout our  direct operations and our supply chain.  We take steps to reduce the amount  of waste we produce and divert the  waste we do generate through  recycling, composting, and donations.  
In fiscal 2020, we avoided sending  approximately 81 percent of the waste  generated at our facilities to landfill  globally. COVID-19 had a significant  impact on the total waste generated at  our facilities. The majority of our sites  were closed, with employees under  mandatory work from home, for almost  half the year. As a result, we produced  about half of the waste compared to the  previous year. Our headquarters in San  Jose diverted 89 percent of waste  generated through an integrated  waste management system that sorts  
77 76 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
out recyclable materials and organic   waste from trash. Some of the ways we  reduce and divert waste include  donating surplus office supplies and  furniture to local schools and  nonprofits, providing reusable and or  compostable cutlery and dishware in our  cafeterias, and offering composting  for organic waste. Cisco also has  programs to reuse and recycle e-scrap  within our direct operations. See the  End of Use section in Supply Chain for  more information. 
Our next area of focus for our direct  operations is to develop waste goals  for our major campuses. We already  set internal waste targets for ISO  14000-certified sites and a goal to  achieve zero waste to landfill at our  Research Triangle Park campus. We  hope to eventually pursue zero-waste  certifications at our campuses in San  Jose, California, and Bangalore, India. 
Environmental Impact Environmental Impact Environmental Impact Environmental Impact 
7717 8480 4636 
2842 2018 1082 
FY18 FY19 FY20 
Total water withdrawn (m3, thousands) 
Waste diverted from land ll  Waste sent to land ll 
Percentage of waste  diverted from landfill 
Title of chart here 
(metric tonnes) 
CHART 29:  
Stepping up sustainability   efforts at RTP 
For the past two years, we ve been working toward targets  to achieve 100 percent renewable energy, water neutrality,  and zero waste at our Research Triangle Park (RTP) campus.  With the year behind us, we re proud of our progress even in  light of disruptions related to COVID-19.  
We ve met our 100 percent renewable energy goal and  continue to look for ways to further improve our energy  footprint. Energy efficiency projects completed over the past  few years, such as LED lighting and water economizers, have  reduced energy consumption. In fiscal 2020, we increased  our North Carolina-based supply of renewable energy to  35 percent. We plan to further expand this local supply by  adding more onsite solar photovoltaic systems across the  campus, sourcing more local renewable energy credits, and  working with Duke Energy to expand their current green  power offerings.  
RTP achieved water neutrality in fiscal 2020. To meet this  target, we conducted a water audit of the campus to identify  opportunities to reduce water usage. While the campus is  already quite water-efficient, we are implementing further  improvements during fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2021. To reach  water neutrality, we are supporting local water restoration  projects that collectively restore a volume of water equal to  the campus s annual consumption. One of these restoration  projects, for example, removed a decommissioned dam in  Western North Carolina to reconnect 140 miles of streams and  create free-flowing aquatic habitat for several species.  
OF INTEREST 
We have made significant progress on our zero-waste  target, setting records in 2020 for the highest diversion rate  and lowest total waste volumes to date. In January 2020,  we produced more compost than landfill waste, thanks to  an aggressive communications campaign, more compost  bins, and a shift from single-use caf  and break room items  to reusable ones across campus. The COVID-19 pandemic,  however, has required us to reevaluate our approach. While  fewer employees on campus means less waste generated,  we ve put our reusable program on hold and have instead  provided compostable single-use items for caf s and   break rooms.  
While Cisco employees remain mostly off campus, a new  colony of residents now call RTP home. In fiscal 2020, we  welcomed three honeybee hives to land adjacent to the RTP  campus that will support pollinator populations across the  state. Native landscaping that has been planted on campus  to reduce water use will also provide habitat for bees a  sweet example of how operating sustainably can yield  benefits across the ecosystem.  
Product energy efficiency  
How we engage 
The Internet might seem like a busy place today. But the  next few years will bring massive traffic growth in the form  of more users  faster speeds, given 5G adoption  and  greater bandwidth needs due to complex applications like  augmented and virtual reality. This increased bandwidth will  mean increased energy consumption, both by networking  devices themselves and for the cooling systems required to  manage the heat they generate.  
To meet consumer demands for greater technological  capabilities, as well as to comply with regulations and meet  their own sustainability goals, Cisco s customers are asking  for more energy-efficient products. We re responding by  keeping efficiency considerations in mind as we develop  products through a variety of models, with the majority of our  products developed internally by our engineering teams. The  remaining products are developed in a partnership with our  vendors, using either original design manufacturing, where  we submit product specifications for vendors to execute   joint development manufacturing, in which we collaborate  on product design  or original equipment manufacturing,  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
Our progress: To reach our power efficiency goal, we are  adding printed circuit board design features to improve the  flow of electrons to board components. 
Goal:  Improve large rack-mounted equipment system  power efficiency as measured from the input power  from the facility to the board-mounted ASICs,  memory, and other chip devices from 77% to  87% by FY22 (using FY16 baseline). 
Environmental Impact 
in which vendors provide us with off-the-shelf products or  components development models. 
We use lifecycle assessments (LCAs) to estimate the   GHG emissions and environmental impacts of our products  through their entire lifecycles. Through LCAs, we know  that the use phase of our products consumes the largest  proportion of energy and is responsible for the most  GHG emissions. In fact, product use is not only the most  emissions-intensive lifecycle phase, but also the greatest  contributor to Cisco s overall GHG emissions footprint. Learn  more in the ETR. In addition to the emissions associated  with our products, we consider the environmental and social  impacts associated with their materials and packaging. Read  more about these topics in Circular Economy and Supply  Chain Excellence. 
Cisco has a broad portfolio of products and solutions  (see page 79). Because our products remain in use for a  relatively long time sometimes a decade or more moving  the needle on this issue will take time. We continue to  research and invest in engineering innovations to improve  product efficiency.  
FY18 FY19 FY20 
Large rack-mounted equipment  
system power efficiency  
CHART 30:  
Optical networking uses  light to transmit large  amounts of information  across networks. Cisco s  optical networking products  include core, edge access,  and dense wave division  multiplexing, which support  service providers, carriers,  and enterprises. 
With access points and wireless  controllers that support the latest  connectivity standards, Cisco  provides an intent-based architecture  to meet customer expectations and  scale for an explosion in IoT and  mobile device usage.  
As cyber attacks evolve, Cisco s platform  approach to security, including Meraki and  Cisco Secure Firewalls, deeply integrate with  our endpoint, application, and cloud capabilities  to safeguard networks, users, and data.  
Switches are essential for local  networks, from small businesses to  data centers, creating a system of  connected devices that can share  information within a building.  
Cisco product portfolio 
Collaboration devices, like IP phones,  headsets, video devices, and software like  Cisco Jabber and Cisco Webex Teams, helps  people stay connected and productive, no  matter where they are.  
Routers are like the tra c  dispatchers of the web,  routing   data between networked devices  and the Internet. Our comprehensive  portfolio of routers meets the needs  of small businesses, industrial users,  service providers, and more.  
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Cisco s Uni ed Computing  
System (UCS) line of  servers,  rst introduced  more than 10 years ago,  stores  les and data for  other computers,  serving   information as needed to  devices on a network.   
Initiatives to further progress 
Addressing product energy consumption   To improve the energy efficiency of our products, Cisco is  investing in areas where we can have the greatest impact.  These investments consider the entire system in which a  product operates, from the design of individual components  to the power distribution and cooling systems of the facility  in which a product is located. To improve the efficiency  of individual products, we are working to develop more  efficient thermal systems, reduce power loss in our high- speed interconnect designs and offer higher-efficiency  
Cisco products contain many components that contribute to increased power efficiency. While not every product contains   
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
High-power products generate heat, so they  need fans to keep components cool. Fan  speed control algorithms based on component  temperature and altitude sensors can prevent  fans from using more energy than necessary.  
Memory technologies  
We re transitioning from separate  dynamic and static random-access  memory modules to using  on-package high-bandwidth  memory systems for reduced  energy consumption. 
Because ASICs are often the  driver of energy e ciency savings,  we are improving their design by  continuing to reduce the process  node size to reduce the amount of  power the ASIC uses. 
Application-speci c integrated  
circuits (ASICs)  
all of these components, here are some parts that you can expect to find inside our routing equipment. 
Environmental Impact Environmental Impact 
Inside a Cisco router 
Power management 
Increasingly intelligent power  management features enable  power to only those functions  needed at any given time. 
power supplies. These energy efficiency improvements are  part of Cisco s Circular Design Principles, in which we work  to incorporate environmental design principles into each of  our products.  
The environment a product operates in can also have an  impact on how much energy is consumed. That s why  we are working with customers to design their facilities to  optimize product energy consumption and improve their  power usage effectiveness (PUE). This includes developing  power supplies with wide-ranging AC and DC inputs  and developing integrated methods of cooling to reduce  operating temperatures at the facility.  
Power supply 
We design new power supplies to meet  the latest 80 Plus standard for Platinum  or Titanium ratings whenever possible.  
Optics technologies  
Advancements in optics  and silicon allow us to pack  higher bandwidths into  smaller pluggable optics  form factors.  
Silicon One: Rebuilding the Internet for the future  
Think of all of the data we generate  and access every day. Every uploaded  file. Every streamed video. Every  Webex meeting. Each of these actions  is processed by routers and switches   in data centers. Increases in Internet  traffic have been managed fairly  efficiently over the past decade, but  data centers still consume a  significant amount of energy. 
This energy use is not only an   obstacle to meeting global climate  commitments it also hinders innovation.  That s because although we ve made  significant technology advances in  optics, silicon, and other aspects of  data center design over the years,   the limiting factor in building new,  higher-capacity systems is efficiently  managing the power required to cool  down active components. To deploy  higher bandwidth, providers need better  power efficiency.  
Five years ago, Cisco engineers began  to work on a solution, one that would  require us to rethink everything we  
OF INTEREST 
know about network design and lay the  groundwork for systems of the future.  The result is Cisco Silicon One,   a programmable ASIC for high- performance networking, which can be  found in our new Cisco 8201 router. 
The Cisco 8201 s predecessor, the  NCS 6008, required over 2300 distinct  chips assembled into a chassis  reaching more than seven feet tall. In  terms of power, the system would use  11kW and consume nearly 96,630  kWh of electricity per year about the  annual electricity consumption of   9 typical U.S. houses in 2019. Silicon  One simplifies this complexity,  condensing those 2300-plus elements  into just one chip. Compared to the  NCS 6008, the Cisco 8201 router s  size has been reduced from a  48-rack-unit chassis to a single rack  unit the size of a pizza box. And it  uses a mere 415W, consuming   3,635 kWh of electricity per year all  while supplying 35 percent more  bandwidth than the NCS 6008.  
Environmental Impact 
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
The Cisco 8201 s environmental  benefits come not only from its far lower  power and manufacturing demands, but  also from a reduced transport  footprint. Previous systems required the  shipping of 10 pallets of equipment  that weighed 2000 pounds, including  packaging to keep each component  secure. Now, all we need to ship is a  single 32-pound box a 62x reduction   in shipping weight and a 202x reduction  in shipping volume.  
Innovation is all about solving problems.  With Silicon One, we re proud to solve  multiple problems at once. Having  cracked the code on programmable  silicon architecture, we re unlocking  capacity for more powerful, higher- bandwidth networks while helping  address the challenge of our industry s  environmental footprint. It s exactly   the kind of breakthrough we need to  support the Internet of the future. 
Circular Economy   and Supply Chain   Excellence   
Why this matters to our business 
Making the world a better place with technology begins with  how we design, make, use, and reuse that technology. This  commitment is core to our desire to power an Inclusive Future. 
We address environmental and social impacts along the  entire product lifecycle to ensure we uphold human rights,  promote worker health and wellbeing, and minimize negative  environmental impacts. A responsible, resilient supply chain  is critical to our business success and supports our ability to  transition from a linear economy to a circular economy. The  COVID-19 pandemic impacted many of our suppliers, further  highlighting the importance of supply chain resiliency and risk  management to protect our extended workforce at all times. 
As we source raw materials for products, we consider how we  can reduce demand on finite resources and protect human  rights during the mining process. By designing products  and packaging grounded in Circular Design Principles, we  can eliminate waste and facilitate repair, disassembly, and  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
reuse at end of life. During product assembly, we expect  our manufacturing partners and their suppliers to uphold  Cisco s standards and to play a critical role in identifying and  addressing risks to workers  human rights and health. We also  partner with suppliers to reduce their own GHG emissions,  build products at zero-waste factories, and facilitate our  closed-loop material sourcing. Our commitment to a circular  economy includes keeping equipment in use longer and  building a world-class returns program that maximizes the  value of assets while reducing the environmental impact of  manufacturing and waste on communities. 
This work aligns with Cisco s core values and directly  benefits our business outcomes, including business  continuity, worker retention, productivity, and customer  satisfaction. And we collaborate widely to drive these  outcomes, with our suppliers, industry groups, customers,  partners, and civil society. Making an Inclusive Future  possible requires us to take care of communities and the  planet we all share. 
Companies have an opportunity to shift away  
In 2019, over 92 billion tonnes of materials  were extracted and processed, contributing  
from the  take-make-dispose  approach  and extend the product lifecycle, conserve  
to about half of global CO2 emissions.  
transformation 
natural resources, and address   
Advancing   a circular   
material waste. 
Addressing climate change 
GHG emissions from our supply chain are 5x greater than the footprint of our  own operations, close to the average among global corporations. Engaging  with suppliers is therefore a critical way for businesses to reduce their overall  carbon footprint and address the increasing impacts of climate change. 
Protecting the rights and wellbeing of workers in  our supply chain has never been more important.  
mineral extraction to components suppliers to  
manufacturing partners, promoting human   rights is an opportunity, a responsibility, and   
Across the stages of the supply chain, from  
a critical enabler of resilience. 
Safeguarding   human rights 
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Design out waste   and pollution from   
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
the beginning 
Circular economy strategy  
Cisco has changed the world many times over with our products. Now we re  changing it again by transforming the way we do business the way we design  and build products and solutions, the way we think about the lifetime of an asset,  and the way we use our technology to support customers in their own business  transformations. This approach is driven by the concept of circular economy, which  is based on a few simple principles: 
Use the products and  materials we already  
have longer  
Regenerate  
 natural   systems 
The Cisco Circular Economy A sustainable future is ours to create. 
We see significant value in the circular  model and are in the process of  driving circular advantage throughout  our business. Our strategy leverages  an enterprisewide program to support  a circular economy transformation  inside our business and beyond.  Further details on our circular  economy engagement model can be  found in the ESG Reporting Hub.  
Our circular economy initiatives are  focused in five major areas: 
    Circular Design: Design products and  
packaging with circularity in mind (i.e.,  design for reuse, repair, recycling,  and resource efficiency) 
Circular design 
Designing for reusability and recycling 
Circular solutions Ecosystem leadership 
A sustainable future is ours to create 
Product lifecycle management 
Product take-back and repair 
    Circular Operations: Reduce  
    Circular Consumption: Manage our  
    Circular Solutions: Shape and  
    Ecosystem Leadership: Advance   
consumption and use renewable  sources across our value chain  
equipment for multiple lifecycles and  deploy new business models to  facilitate this approach 
pioneer technology solutions and  services to enable circular economy  value creation for customers  
a circular economy through industry  innovation, collaboration, and   public policy  
The Cisco Circular Economy 
Connecting the unconnected 
Sustainable materials and closed loop 
Enabling technologies 
Reuse, repair, and remanufacture 
Circular consumption 
Low carbon supply chain 
Collaboration is critical to our ability to  achieve our circular economy vision.  Cisco was a founding partner of the  Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF) and  we continue to leverage member  connections, trainings, and shared  learnings as a Member of EMF. We also  actively engage with other groups,  including the Platform for Accelerating  the Circular Economy (PACE) Capital  Equipment Coalition, the Circular  Electronics Partnership, the Reverse  Logistics Association (RLA), and the  Partnership to Reuse, Refill, Replace  Single-Use Plastics (PR3). More details  on these partnerships can be found in  the ESG Reporting Hub.  
Collaborating to scale impact 
Engaging industry partners, NGOs, and policymakers 
Circular operations 
How we engage  
Circular design is fundamental to our ability to implement a  circular economy, both now and into the future. Our circular  design strategy spans five focus areas, which address our  
Product and packaging design 
86 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
Standardization and modularization:  Standardize and modularize components  and enclosures to simplify our supply chain  and enable reuse, repair, remanufacturing,  and recycling. 
Material use: Incorporate recycled  content into our products, reduce the  use of nonrenewable materials, and  consider resource scarcity risks as part  of material selection. 
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
most material impacts. In fiscal 2020, guided by this framework,  we developed Circular Design Principles, allowing us to make  progress toward several of our product and packaging goals.  
Smart energy consumption: Improve  product energy efficiency through activity- based power and power management  features (see page 80 for more details on  product energy use). 
Sustainable packaging: Use recycled   and renewable packaging materials, reduce  foam and plastic use, move toward  fiber-based designs, and increase  packaging efficiency. 
Disassembly, repair, and reuse: Design  products with easily separable components  that use similar materials to facilitate reuse,  repair, remanufacturing, and recycling. 
Initiatives to enable  progress   
Growing our circular   design community In fiscal 2020, we held eight workshops  globally with stakeholders from across  our design community, including  Cisco employees from supply chain,  engineering, and product management.  These workshops increased awareness  of our circular design strategy, sparked  innovative new design ideas, and grew  the community of advocates advancing  circular design in their business units.  We also established a Circular Design  Steering Committee and launched a  Circular Design Working Group, which  meets regularly to share case studies,  discuss best practices, and stay  updated on key initiatives. 
Watch video 
Cisco Circular  Design   Principles 
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
Circular Design Principles training To increase internal awareness and understanding of our circular design strategy,  we developed an interactive, gamified training course targeted at our design  community. In this course, launching fiscal 2021, learners will make a series of  design decisions to  build  Cisco products, learning about the Circular Design  Principles as they go. 
Designing products for circularity Our Circular Design Principles are increasingly incorporated into the design of new  products, making those products more durable, environmentally friendly, and easier  to reuse through multiple lifecycles. In fiscal 2020, we launched our first products  with closed-loop plastic (see next page). Another example is our IR1101 router,  which employs a highly modular and expandable hardware design to extend product  lifetime. Customers have the flexibility to add or upgrade components as their needs  and technologies evolve, as they have with the rollout of 5G. The updated design  also reduced the idle power by 45 percent from the previous generation. 
Our progress: On track. 
We developed our Circular Design Principles in FY20,  which include specific guidelines meant to address our most  material impacts. We are now in the process of embedding  these Circular Design Principles into standard design tools and  processes and developing a product scoring methodology to  measure progress toward the goal. 
Goal: Design 100% of new Cisco products  and packaging to incorporate Circular Design  Principles by FY25. 
87 feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Closing the loop from old to new  
Like many other companies, Cisco uses plastic in both our  products and packaging. Plastic has many advantages, from  its technical properties to its low cost and light weight, which  helps to reduce emissions from transport. However, plastic  also comes with many well-documented challenges, such as  being derived from fossil fuels and being difficult to recycle.  Increasing the use of recycled plastics sourced from our own  recycling stream is one example of how we can put products  to new use at end-of-life. 
In an important step toward our circular economy goals in  fiscal 2020, Cisco launched select models of the IP phone  8800 series and the Webex Room Kit Plus using 100 percent  post-consumer recycled (PCR) plastic resin. These products  are the first to carry a new closed-loop plastic label Cisco  has created to differentiate products made with recycled  plastic sourced from industrial recyclers, including our own. 
88 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
OF INTEREST 
10  The plastics included in this goal make up the majority of Cisco s use. However, it excludes plastics contained in commodity components sourced from suppliers  
Our progress: On track. Accomplishments in FY20 include the launch of select models of the IP phone 8800 series and the  Webex Room Kit Plus using 100% post-consumer recycled (PCR) plastic resin. The production of  these products was delayed due to COVID-19, but will take full effect in FY21. COVID-19-related  impacts largely drove our 26.1% virgin plastic reduction in FY20. Given this, we do not consider  the goal to be met and continue to drive progress. 
(such as printed circuit boards). Most of these electronic components require the electrical insulating property provided by plastics.  
Goal:  Decrease use of virgin plastics by 20% by FY25 (FY18 base year)10.  
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
The PCR plastic used in these products will avoid millions   of pounds of virgin plastic usage annually. And by using PCR  resin, we will reduce the carbon footprint of these plastic  components by as much as 95 percent. Since the plastic  components in these products account for more than   15 percent of Cisco s total direct plastic procurement, these  changes will have a significant impact toward achieving our  goal to reduce virgin plastic use by 20 percent by fiscal 2025. 
Learn more about the   Cisco Closed-Loop Plastic Label. 
Progress on packaging  We are reducing the environmental footprint of our  packaging and making progress toward our goals by  optimizing packaging efficiency, minimizing single-use  plastics and foam, reducing unwanted or redundant items in  shipments, and using readily recyclable materials. In fiscal  2020, we redesigned the packaging for our Carrier Routing  System Performance Route Processor and Fan Controller  spares by redesigning the foam cushions and carton. This  reduced the dimensional weight of the spare pack while also  reducing nearly two pounds of foam overall for each  product shipped. Through additional packaging design  changes, we also eliminated more than 80,000 pounds of  corrugate from our total packaging shipped in fiscal 2020.  With a number of additional projects underway, we expect to  see increased impact in fiscal 2021. 
Our Progress: On track. We continue to explore several alternatives to foam for sustainable packaging solutions, keeping  in mind that product protection is our first priority. In FY20, we reduced our use of foam in  Cisco product packaging by 11.5%. However, COVID-19-related impacts largely drove our  reduction. We also implemented foam reduction projects that will take effect in FY21.  
Goal:  Reduce foam used in Cisco product packaging by 75% measured by weight   by FY25 (FY19 base year). 
Eliminating paper from product shipments In July 2020, we announced that we will eliminate all paper  documentation that is included in new product shipments  by the end of 2021. Today, for many of Cisco s hardware  products and software solutions, millions of sheets of paper  are shipped in the form of licenses, manuals, and compliance  documentation. Eliminating these paper shipments and  
90 91 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
11  This goal language has been slightly modified from that published in FY19, to better align with industry standard terminology. It does not reflect a change in the goal itself. 
Our progress:   In FY20, we refined our packaging efficiency efforts to focus on packaging volume rather than  volume per weight of product. In doing so, we continue to both reduce the total amount of packaging  used and realize logistics savings. We will begin reporting on this metric in our FY21 report. 
Goal:  Increase product packaging cube efficiency by 50% by FY25 (FY19 base year).11 
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
moving to electronic delivery represents an opportunity to  reduce waste, cost, and GHG emissions while streamlining  the supply chain and enhancing the customer experience.  Exceptions to this policy will be allowed where it is business  critical or legally required for the product to include paper  documents in the shipment.  
Supply chain sustainability 
How we engage  
Through the Supplier Code of Conduct we hold our suppliers and their suppliers  to the same high standards we practice, consistent with the Responsible Business  Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct and other responsible sourcing policies. To follow  through on our commitments, we conduct due diligence with suppliers and strive  to protect workers, communities, and the environment from harm. Through supplier  engagement, we believe in building foundations that can drive positive outcomes  for people and ecosystems in our supply chain. We also collaborate extensively  with industry groups, peers, suppliers, and other stakeholders to advance  responsible, sustainable supply chains across our industry. 
in The Gartner   
Supply Chain   
2020 report 
Top 25 for   
in IT Industry IPE Green Supply   
Chain Corporate Information   
Transparency Index (CITI) 
Supply Chain  
Recognition 
IPE Supply Chain Climate  
Action Index (SCTI) 
in IT Industry  
92 93 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Supplier List 
fiscal 2020   
Manufacturing partners 
A select group of suppliers that produce finished Cisco products 
Component suppliers 
A large group of suppliers that provide parts to our manufacturing  partners according to our specifications  
Logistics service providers  
Suppliers who transport components and finished products 
Repair partners 
Suppliers who operate repair sites and complete service repairs 
components 
orders daily 
units repaired 
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
Cisco supply chain and reverse logistics locations 
orderable items 
items shipped daily 
suppliers (including manufacturing,  components, and logistics partners) 
manufacturing sites global repair sites logistics hubs 
Initiatives to enable progress  
Supplier engagement for Code of Conduct assurance The supplier engagement process is essential to drive  improvement within our supply chain and across our industry.  It includes four main phases described below:  
     Risk assessment. We evaluate our supply base annually  
for social and environmental risk factors, inherent risks  from operations and production, and exposure to those  risks. The results of this assessment feed into our  due diligence, audits and assessments, and supplier  engagement plans. 
   Human development and governance  
   Forced labor and human trafficking  
   Environmental performance indicators 
Geographic risk factors Supply chain risk Exposure risk 
indicators 
indicators 
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
Suppliers produce Corrective Action  Plans and evidence that they have  
We evaluate the supply base on  
social and environmental risk  factors and Cisco s exposure   to those risks from operations   
implemented their plans.  
Risk assessment  
and production. 
Supplier engagement process for a more resilient, responsible supply chain 
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
Suppliers must address or downgrade  
Program to assess their conformance  
We audit high-risk suppliers based  
priority issues within 30 days and   
on RBA s Validated Assessment  
other findings within 180 days. 
to our Code of Conduct. 
Self assessment   
and audits  
   Past social and environmental  
   Presence of vulnerable workers 
   Unresolved issues and repeat findings 
performance 
Risk assessment process 
For issues such as the monitoring   of working hours, suppliers provide  
supplier Corrective Action Plans  
long-term improvement plans. 
In fiscal 2020, we updated the supplier onboarding  process to more deeply assess suppliers for social and  environmental risks, such as pollution violations or the  employment of foreign migrant workers or workers under  the age of 18. All new direct material suppliers have been  screened since the process was updated. If risks are  identified, we follow up to determine if impacts need to  be addressed prior to scaling business with the supplier.  When supplier entities are integrated through mergers  and acquisitions, they become a part of Cisco s standard  programs and due diligence processes. Our Supplier Code  of Conduct was also extended to our indirect service  suppliers for acknowledgement during fiscal 2020. 
Corrective action plans  
and monitor their progress  
We review and approve   
toward closure. 
   Cisco s strategic relationship with supplier 
Cisco works closely with suppliers until  performance improves and to validate  
We offer training and continuous  
improvement to help suppliers  
better align with our values. 
Capability building  
finding closure. 
8 60 6      Self-assessment and audits. We have adopted the RBA s  
     Corrective Action Plans. Suppliers must develop Corrective  
TABLE 3: Self-assessment questionnaire coverage by supplier type 
12  Includes our manufacturing and components suppliers only. 
14  Excluding working hours and social insurance. 
Our comprehensive supplier auditing program helps  suppliers build capability and improve their performance.  In fiscal 2020, 66 Cisco supplier facilities conducted RBA  initial audits. We estimate these audits covered more  than 235,000 workers12 in our supply chain. Working  hours, emergency preparedness, and occupational safety  remained the largest portion of our audit nonconformances.  There were no priority environment findings in fiscal 2020.  Review our audit results in the ESG Reporting Hub. 
industry standard accountability and assessment tools.  These include Self-Assessment Questionnaires (SAQs)  and the Validated Assessment Program (VAP). SAQs give  suppliers insight into their own performance. And they  help Cisco develop leading indicators for risks that can be  addressed during an audit or another due diligence initiative. 
Action Plans (CAPs) for individual nonconformances.  Supplier CAPs must adhere to Cisco deadlines informed  by the RBA VAP Protocol. We consider nonconformances  closed after we review evidence confirming that workers  have been remediated, communicated to, and or trained  on revised policies and procedures. As needed, we use  third-party auditors to conduct closure audits onsite, as  informed by the RBA VAP protocol.  
Manufacturing partners 100% 100% 
Components suppliers (by spend) 80% 80% 
Logistics suppliers 100% 100% 
Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2020 
   Capability building. Training and building the capabilities  
In fiscal 2020, our closure rate of priority and major  nonconformances was 93 percent14. Many of the  nonconformances that were not closed involved specific  permits awaiting government approval, and the related  activities did not pose particular risk. 
of suppliers is necessary to make lasting improvement  to working conditions. This includes individual supplier  coaching and referral to RBA training resources. Last  year, we developed a capability-building seminar series  to address some of the chronic health and safety  nonconformances we saw in audits. Topics included  emergency response management, fire safety, occupational  safety controls, and chemical safety controls.    In fiscal 2020, we provided a virtual training to more  than 100 learners from 45 supplier sites. The training  highlighted best practices in emergency response  management, including a Cisco manufacturing partner s  emergency response to COVID-19. We ll be continuing   the health and safety capability building series virtually   into fiscal 2021. 
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
RBA initial audits conducted  by supplier type6 
RBA initial audits conducted  
13  RBA audits are valid for two years. 
6 RBA audits are valid for two years. 
FY18 FY19 FY20 
Manufacturing partner facilities  Components supplier facilities 
by supplier type13 
CHART 31:  
Our progress on Human  Rights Impact Assessment  (HRIA) commitments  
Expand our scope 
Improve our effectiveness 
Engage to learn and influence 
    Grew responsible minerals program to include  
    Incorporated logistics suppliers into Supplier  
    Extended Supplier Code of Conduct to global  
    Developed Supply Chain Human Rights  
   Delivered Supply Chain Human Rights Training  
    Leveraged data to improve risk assessments  
    Expanded due diligence beyond audits with  
    Developed external stakeholder engagement  
    Partnered within industry at the RBA, RMI, RLI,  
    Partnered with one manufacturing site  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
cobalt and other conflict-affected and high- risk areas (CAHRAs) 
Code of Conduct assurance program 
services suppliers 
Governance Committee 
to Cisco employees 
for forced labor and child labor risks 
targeted assessments and spot checks 
to engage workers in reskilling, including  surveying workers on job satisfaction, Future   of Work, and providing skills training  
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
We use supplier scorecards to help us measure and  manage conformance to Cisco s requirements for  suppliers on environmental stewardship and human rights.  Sustainability performance is incorporated into our supply  chain business processes for sourcing and procurement  decisions. If a supplier fails to meet Cisco s policies or  specifications, we escalate the issue through management,  including to the senior executive of supply chain when  necessary. If a supplier fails to make efforts to improve,  we stop awarding new business, and when warranted, will  discontinue the relationship. 
COVID-19 interrupted our normal processes for auditing  suppliers. From February through July 2020, the second half  of our fiscal year, third-party audits were limited until protocols  could be set up to protect the health and safety of auditors  and the factory workers they visited. Auditor capacity in some   regions was also affected due to travel restrictions. As a result,  several suppliers with audits scheduled during fiscal 2020   postponed audits to the first half of fiscal 2021. These include  logistics suppliers whom we planned to audit as part of our  human rights commitments. Despite these challenges, we  were able to complete 66 of our planned audits 90 percent of  our fiscal 2020 goal of 73. Though onsite audits did not occur  for several months, we continued supplier engagement in a  remote capacity to ensure our standards were upheld. 
Achieving our human rights commitments  We have made progress toward the commitments outlined  by the Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) performed  in fiscal 2017. We have improved how we conduct due  diligence toward our priorities and how we sense and  respond to human rights risks as they evolve over time. 
In fiscal 2020, we launched a human rights training in  Supply Chain Operations to raise awareness and educate  employees on how they can play a role in helping Cisco to  follow through on our human rights commitments. Supply  chain employees learned how to detect warning signs of  serious risks such as forced labor and child labor, report if  they suspect violations to Cisco s standards, and support  work to hold suppliers accountable. We reached a 98 percent  completion rate among Supply Chain Operations employees. 
The COVID-19 pandemic presented  extraordinary challenges in fiscal  2020 and caused unprecedented  disruption for many. As Cisco powers  the world s networks, we played a role  as an essential business supporting  the global response to the pandemic.  Our priorities were to provide critical  infrastructure for humanitarian response  and essential services and to protect  the health, safety, and human rights of  workers who build our products in the  supply chain.  
At the beginning of the pandemic, we  developed a new order prioritization  process. This enabled the fulfillment  of over 2500 critical customer  infrastructure orders related to first  responders, such as healthcare  providers, telemedicine, and mobile  COVID-19 testing, in addition to  public services, schools, and other  businesses deemed essential services  during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Our repair centers also collected,  refurbished, and distributed hundreds  of Cisco Collaboration devices for use  in telemedicine. And we leveraged  our existing remanufactured inventory  in Cisco Refresh to help meet urgent  demand as businesses transitioned  to work-from-home, demonstrating  the resiliency benefits of a circular  economy model. 
Our partnership with our suppliers  was critical to support delivery of  products and protection of workers.  We acted quickly to engage our  supply base and provided them  guidelines on responsible business  conduct while operating during the  pandemic. With our manufacturing  
Cisco supply chain s response  to COVID-19 
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
partners around the globe who build  our final products, we monitored the  development and execution of detailed  pandemic response plans to minimize  workers  exposure to the virus. We  also provided supplemental funds for  workers  personal protective equipment  (PPE) and COVID-19 testing to select  manufacturing partner sites. 
We worked with supply chain partners  to determine when it was in the best  interest of workers to reduce capacity  or perform brief shutdowns of specific  sites to reduce the risk of transmission  of COVID-19. We also leveraged our  global network and worked aggressively  to re-route orders, expedite alternative  component supply, and bring up  additional manufacturing capability. This  enabled us to meet customer needs  and ensure workers were protected. 
Despite our best efforts, it was reported  to us that three extended team  members within our manufacturing and  logistics network passed away from  COVID-19-related complications early  in the pandemic. We take this loss  to heart and took steps to assist the  affected families by offering financial  and emotional support. We take the  protection of the workers in our supply  chain very seriously and are committed  to continuously improve how we  operate to protect and respect the  rights of all people. 
Cisco also assessed component  suppliers  protection of workers   health and human rights during the  pandemic. We surveyed more than  150 components supplier sites   to ensure:  
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
   Plans were implemented to protect  
   Labor shortages were addressed  
   Wages and social insurance were  
To help support suppliers through the  lasting effects of the pandemic, we  worked with fellow RBA members  to develop and provide further  recommendations for Suppliers   Protection of Workers during COVID-19.  Our intent is to strengthen supplier  resiliency by helping them build a  strong response program that supports  workers. These recommendations  were also provided to the RBA to share  amongst the wider membership.   
Moving forward into fiscal 2021, we ve  adjusted our supply chain sustainability  activities and business operations to  adapt to COVID-19, and our plans  are under continual improvement. We  continue to honor our commitments to  ensure protection of vulnerable workers  in our supply chain who are impacted  by the pandemic. We are adjusting our  due diligence processes, using remote  engagements in lieu of onsite audits  where appropriate, in order to protect  worker health. We will also continue to  work with our supply chain partners to  ensure human rights are protected and  build supply chain resilience to meet the  needs of our customers. 
workers from COVID-19, including  providing basic emergency medical  care and PPE 
without violations of our Supplier  Code of Conduct 
paid to workers on extended   leave, quarantine, or seeking  medical attention 
Cisco oversaw suppliers   reimbursement of more  than US 500,000 in health  check and recruitment  fees to more than 6000  workers during fiscal 2020. 
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
where we collaborate for mutual benefit  
Read more about areas of importance  for our suppliers, specific reporting and  
compliance requirements, and areas  
in our Cisco Supplier Guide. 
Cisco Supplier Guide 
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
Learn More 
Ensuring freely chosen employment Cisco requires suppliers to mitigate risks that could potentially lead to forced labor  conditions and remediate impacts to affected workers. You can read an overview  of Cisco s process for addressing forced labor risks in our Statement on the  Prevention of Slavery and Human Trafficking. 
During fiscal 2020, supplier audits uncovered nonconformities to our Code of  Conduct for Freely Chosen Employment. These indicated risks for forced labor  or bonded labor. In a few cases, workers had paid one-time health examination  fees of less than 5 percent of their monthly salary. Cisco s audits also uncovered  cases of excessive recruitment fees charged to foreign migrant workers. As part  of our remediation work, Cisco oversaw suppliers  reimbursement of more than  US 500,000 in health check and recruitment fees to more than 6000 workers  during fiscal 2020. Four workers were ensured access to their passports after the  audit revealed they did not have access to them.  
In addition to audits, we conducted a targeted risk assessment of manufacturing  and components suppliers who employ vulnerable populations such as migrant  workers, young workers, and student workers. Most of the suppliers we assessed  had policies and procedures to prevent risks of forced labor and bonded labor.  However, this targeted effort effectively identified four suppliers that required further  onsite assessment. One assessment found that workers paid application and service  processing fees of less than 50 percent of their monthly salary. These practices  were addressed, and workers were repaid during fiscal 2020. Assessments of two  of the identified suppliers had to be postponed due to the pandemic  these are  planned for fiscal 2021. Learn more about Cisco s work to stop forced labor and  other assessments conducted in fiscal 2020 in our ESG Reporting Hub. 
Remediating workers facing forced labor conditions 
Of all risks related to modern slavery,  the risk of debt bondage is among the  more common within the electronics  industry. It can occur when a worker  takes on debt for expenses related to  their employment, such as for travel or  shelter. Indebtedness makes workers  vulnerable to exploitation and forced  labor conditions that can be difficult   to escape. 
Cisco has long committed to  eradicating forced labor, including  the risks of debt bondage within our  supply chain. Audits are one method  of due diligence that we use to identify  and address forced labor risks.  During fiscal 2020, a comprehensive  onsite audit at a components supplier  identified a small number of foreign  migrant workers facing risks of debt  bondage. These workers had paid  
OF INTEREST 
recruitment fees to a labor agent in  their home country at a rate equivalent  to more than 1.5 times their monthly  salary. The supplier had existing  no  fee  policies and procedures in place  for detecting and reimbursing fees like  these. But they hadn t yet uncovered  that these workers had paid fees  before starting employment. 
Once discovered, the supplier worked  diligently to address the issue. Through   thorough investigations, the supplier  traced more than 400 workers who had  been subject to these fees. They had  been threatened by the home country  labor agent and feared that they would  lose their jobs if they spoke up about  the fees. The supplier worked to identify  how much each worker had paid. As  part of remediation steps taken in  fiscal 2020, the supplier reimbursed  
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
more than US 140,000 total in  fees to workers. Beyond monetary  reimbursement, the supplier is working  to encourage two-way dialogue  with workers to enable and motivate  them to disclose fees paid, among  other feedback about the working  environment. By setting up worker voice  mechanisms, the supplier will be able  to more closely monitor the conditions  foreign migrant workers experience  during the recruitment process. 
This case illuminated the challenges  that suppliers can encounter to  conduct due diligence with labor  agents in recruitment channels.  Cisco intends to leverage this lesson  to improve and deepen our due  diligence approach with suppliers  and drive the importance of vetting  upstream recruitment channels. 
Protecting young workers Our standards for protecting workers under the age of 18,  including the types of work they cannot perform, are  outlined in the Juvenile Labor Policy and Expectations. In  fiscal 2020, Cisco did not observe any cases of underage  child labor. However, audits identified suppliers who did   not have sufficiently comprehensive identity document  verification processes in place to prevent underage child  labor directly or indirectly through contractors. In these  cases, Cisco worked with suppliers to close gaps in their  management systems to prevent risks of child labor. 
One supplier was prioritized for onsite assessment outside  of our normal audit processes. The assessment uncovered  five young workers who had been working overtime and  had not received risk evaluations or health exams as part of  their employment. Cisco engaged with the supplier to  immediately stop the practices that posed health risks to  workers and is actively working to ensure young worker  treatment is aligned to our expectations.  Sourcing minerals ethically  Our goal is to work collaboratively with suppliers to source  minerals consistent with our values around human rights,  business ethics, labor, health and safety practices, and  environmental responsibility. This approach includes sourcing  responsibly from conflict-affected and high-risk areas  (CAHRAs). Our full commitment, informed by the United  Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights  (UNGPs), is captured in our Responsible Minerals Policy. Our  Conflict Minerals Disclosure and Report, published in 2020,  describes in detail how our due diligence activities align to the  OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains  of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas.  
100 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
Gold Tantalum Tungsten Cobalt Tin 
Total smelters and re ners, by mineral  
Percentage conformant or active in RMAP as of April 1, 2020 Number conformant or active in RMAP as of April 1, 2020 
Total smelters and re ners, by mineral (CY2019) 
Total smelters and refiners in our supply  
chain, by mineral (CY2019) 
CHART 32:  
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
Industry collaboration   In fiscal 2020, Cisco continued collaborating with peer  companies and other stakeholders through active  participation in the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI). We  were involved in the RMI Smelter Engagement Team, which  works to increase participation in the Responsible Minerals  Assurance Process (RMAP)  the RMI Mining Engagement  Team, which works with upstream stakeholders to increase  the quantity and quality of data that enables downstream  companies to identify and mitigate risks  and the RMI Artisanal  and Small-scale Mining (ASM) Team, which is focused on  addressing the unique risks and opportunities in the ASM  sector. We anticipate deepening our involvement in these  groups and engaging on other issues relevant to our minerals  sourcing strategy. In addition, Cisco continued its financial  support of the RMI s Upstream Due Diligence Smelter Fund. 
In March 2020, Cisco became a member of the European  Partnership for Responsible Minerals (EPRM), a multistakeholder  partnership designed to increase the number of mines that  adopt responsible mining practices in CAHRAs. We look  forward to participating in this community and working to  advance its in-region projects.  
Beyond  conflict minerals    Demand is increasing for accountability and transparency  regarding human rights in global mineral supply chains. In  fiscal 2020, Cisco initiated our first Cobalt Supplier Survey,  using the RMI s Cobalt Reporting Template (CRT) to survey  lithium-ion battery suppliers. 100 percent of suppliers  responded to the survey, and the results are detailed on page  100. Like the identified 3TG smelters and refiners, Cisco uses  these results to conduct due diligence throughout the year to  monitor risks and increase the overall conformance rate. In  addition, Cisco conducted its first analysis of CAHRAs to  understand the social and environmental impacts of mineral  sourcing outside of the Great Lakes Region in central Africa. 
Protecting workers  health and safety  We continue to see suppliers struggle with maintaining  effective health and safety management systems, as we ve  seen in audit results. Cisco continued our membership in   the Clean Electronics Production Network (CEPN), which  works toward zero exposure of workers to toxic chemicals  in electronics manufacturing. We conducted surveys with  suppliers to better understand chemicals they may be using  
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
in production. With the information we received, we prioritized  suppliers for deeper engagement and capability building  efforts. COVID-19 affected when we were able to start this  work, so we are continuing to engage suppliers through  fiscal 2021.  
Cisco is also working to enable employees who regularly visit  supplier factories to identify health and safety risks to workers.  As part of the Supply Chain Human Rights training, employees  learned to identify and report key health and safety risks such  as the lack of PPE and locked or blocked emergency exit  pathways. We also worked to pilot an onsite spot check  initiative with a select number of Cisco employees. Ten  engineers were trained to check for protocols onsite  regarding fire safety and egress, chemical management,   and reasonable accommodations for pregnant and nursing  mothers. Plans to expand this work further were put on hold  due to the pandemic. We seek to resume when feasible. 
Promoting reskilling for the future of work Reflecting our purpose to power an Inclusive Future, we  created new educational and professional development  opportunities for workers. In fiscal 2020, we conducted a pilot  leveraging Cisco Networking Academy to train production  workers with new IT skills. Overall, the training was well  received by workers. They learned more about the technology  industry and expressed interest in taking additional courses.  We are continuing this collaboration in fiscal 2021 with a larger  group of workers and course materials. 
101 feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Tackling supplier GHG emissions  Measuring and managing environmental performance  extends to Cisco s global supply chain operations. We have  been working with suppliers to improve and report GHG  emissions data through the CDP Supply Chain Program for  over 10 years. We use this information to directly measure  our supply chain carbon footprint and evaluate individual  supplier performance.  
102 103 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Our progress: On track. There is a standard one-year lag between when emissions occur at our  suppliers and when they are reported to Cisco through CDP. This year,  we have reported our FY19 base year. Progress against this goal will be  reported in our FY21 report.17 
16  Includes allocated emissions from Cisco s Tier 1 and Tier 2 manufacturing, component, and warehouse  
17  Due to the nature of Scope 3 targets and how emissions are calculated, we have established a standard  
Our progress: On track. We are working with suppliers to set and work toward enterprisewide  emissions reductions, with the hope that results scale across the IT  industry. We are using a combination of targeted supplier engagement  and collaboration with industry peers to advance emissions modeling  and to gain more real-time insight and influence into suppliers  targets,  capabilities, and performance. 
15 Preferably in line with an approved science-based methodology (applying either a 1.5 or well below  
suppliers, and calculated emissions associated with transportation emissions managed and paid for by  Cisco. Emissions are allocated based on Cisco s financial share of the supplier s reported global Scope 1  and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Transportation emissions will be reported as Upstream Transportation and  Distribution according to GHG Protocol methodology because they are paid directly by Cisco. 
operating process to adjust previously reported emissions totals, including the base year figure, if  required. This allows us to expand the boundary of GHG emissions included in the target as we strive to  improve visibility and methodology over time. 
2 C reduction scenario). Includes suppliers that set intensity targets that produce an absolute emissions  reduction during the target period. 
Goal:  80% of Cisco component, manufacturing, and logistics  suppliers by spend will have a public, absolute GHG  emissions reduction target by FY25.15 
Goal:  Reduce Cisco supply chain-related Scope 3 GHG emissions  
by 30% absolute by FY30 (FY19 base year).16  
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
Reducing GHG emissions has clear business benefits to our  suppliers and contributes to Cisco s long-term operational  success. To drive progress, we have committed to a goal for  suppliers to set public, absolute GHG emissions reduction  targets, and a longer-term goal to reduce Cisco s absolute  supply chain-related Scope 3 GHG emissions. Close  engagement with suppliers will help us achieve both of these  goals. Learn more about our supplier GHG emissions reporting  in the ESG Reporting Hub. 
Suppliers publicly reporting  absolute GHG target (%) 
Suppliers publicly reporting  
absolute GHG target (%) 
CHART 33:  
Reducing material waste  Our focus on developing and promoting a circular economy  has driven efforts to better understand how materials are  consumed upstream in our supply chain. We are engaging our  manufacturing partners on waste diversion reporting. This will  build visibility into supplier waste sources and disposal  methods, and identify opportunities to reduce waste. 
Improving water security During fiscal 2020, we dug further into how we could help to  improve environmental vitality of water systems in the areas  where our supply chain operates. We conducted a survey to  identify the water consumption levels of different commodity  types within our supply chain. Leveraging World Resources  Institute s Aqueduct tools and the data we collected from  suppliers, we were able to identify high water consumption  supplier sites operating in water-stressed areas. As a result,  we have prioritized suppliers to engage in capability-building  in partnership with the Alliance for Water Stewardship in fiscal  2021. Our goal is to reduce water-related risks to business  and improve the health of water ecosystems long-term. 
Our progress: On track. In FY20, Cisco continued our partnership with TRUE Zero Waste19 to  support and verify completion of our manufacturing partners  efforts to  achieve a zero-waste diversion rate at specific sites and to maximize  their efficiency in the use of resources. We are in the final stages  of the TRUE certification process for Cisco operations at partner  manufacturing sites in China and Thailand, and plan to kick off similar  initiatives at manufacturing partner sites in Mexico and Malaysia in the  first half of FY21. 
18 According to current standard definitions used in certification protocols,  zero waste  diversion is defined as a 90 percent or greater overall diversion of solid,  
19  TRUE Zero Waste is a site-level certification program provided by Green Business Certification Inc.  
nonhazardous wastes from landfill, incineration (waste-to-energy), and the environment. Diversion methods can include reduction, reuse, recycling, and or compost. 
Goal:  70% of Cisco component and manufacturing suppliers  by spend will achieve a zero-waste diversion rate at one  or more sites by FY25.18  
Managing environmental risk in China We have an ongoing partnership with the Institute of Public  and Environmental Affairs (IPE) and conduct a series of  activities to prevent and mitigate the environmental risk from  our supplier sites in mainland China. We are recognized for  our work on Green Supply Chain by IPE and were ranked  2  in the IT industry for the Corporate Information Transparency  Index (CITI) at the end of fiscal 2020. 
We also broadened the scope of environmental reporting  and transparency to help us better understand the water  footprint in our global supply chain. In addition to reporting  GHG emissions, we asked suppliers to complete the CDP  water survey during fiscal 2020. 
Some of the work we conduct leverages IPE s Blue Map  database, which identifies existing and historical  environmental violations. In fiscal 2020, 50 supplier sites in  mainland China remediated environmental violations and  were delisted from the IPE Blue Map. 
Suppliers with verified zero-waste  diversion rate at one or more sites 
Suppliers with veri ed zero-waste  diversion rate (%) 
CHART 34:  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Transparency Index (CITI) 
IPE Green Supply Chain   Corporate Information   
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
We also work with our manufacturing partners to cascade these expectations to  their next-tier suppliers in a program called the Green Supply Chain initiative. By  building the capability of suppliers, we can influence better environmental  performance and transparency further down in the supply chain. In fiscal 2020,  100 percent of our manufacturing partners in mainland China set up programs to  manage their suppliers  environmental performance using IPE Blue Map. With  direct one-on-one coaching from Cisco, partners developed the capacity to  identify their suppliers  environmental pollution violations and work with suppliers  on remediation. IPE recognized one of our partners for their focused efforts to  launch and scale the program without prior experience. They shared their positive  experience of working with Cisco at the IPE Annual Forum so peers, NGOs,  government, and other stakeholders could learn from it. 
Environmental reporting and transparency are critical to understanding the  environmental impact of our supply chain in China. To drive this work, we  encourage high-environmental-impact suppliers to disclose energy conservation,  water, air, and waste information through the Pollution Release and Transfer  Report (PRTR) reporting system on the IPE website. In fiscal 2020, 102 supplier  sites completed PRTR reporting, compared to 60 in fiscal 2019. We saw large  increases in part by motivating our manufacturing partners to ask their high- environmental-impact suppliers to complete this reporting. 
We are also taking steps to help suppliers address current environmental  compliance challenges. In fiscal 2020, we organized virtual environmental training  seminars with more than 219 attendees from 173 suppliers. The seminars included  presentations on how to protect the environment in their daily operations. For  manufacturing partners who have struggled with addressing their pollution violations,  we hired third-party consultants to identify gaps and coach partners to  implement corrective actions onsite for more than four months. After coaching,  the facilities were able to successfully remediate their environmental issues. 
Product lifecycle management  
How we engage  
Central to the concept of a circular economy is maintaining assets at their highest  and best use for as long as possible. As Cisco transforms to a software- and  features-driven business, we must not lose sight of the importance of our hardware  in enabling those solutions. At the World Economic Forum in 2018, our CEO joined  forces with the Platform for Accelerating the Circular Economy (PACE) in signing the  Capital Equipment Pledge, committing to 100 percent product return upon request,  at no cost to our customers.  
We continue to make progress toward that commitment, as well as our  broader circular economy vision. This progress builds on close to two  decades of programs to facilitate product returns for reuse and recycling, offer  comprehensive service and repair, and remanufacture used equipment for  sale through Cisco Refresh. Our strategy focuses on improving the customer  experience to drive increased product returns at end-of-use, expanding business  and as-a-service models to facilitate return and reuse, and improving product  design to facilitate reuse and recycling. The programs covered in this section aim  to extend the useful life of our hardware and are organized by product lifecycle  stage from use, to return, to reuse and end of life.  
Circular   Economy 101:  Circular   Consumption 
Watch video 
Use After design, the use phase of our products is the first key step as we incorporate  our circular economy approach into the lifecycle management of our equipment.  Cisco s Global Service Supply Chain organization delivers and supports customer  and partner hardware Return Material Authorizations (RMAs). We are constantly  optimizing our network and inventory levels as parts are used, customers deploy new  products, and old hardware becomes obsolete. To maximize products  useful life, we  replace, recover, and refurbish equipment and components as necessary through an  extensive logistics, warehouse, planning, and repair operations network. Each device  is repaired and repeatedly tested to ensure compliance with the latest manufacturing  specifications. Product energy consumption is also a key customer metric in the  use phase of Cisco products. Read more about product energy efficiency in the  Environmental Impact section. 
Initiatives to enable progress  
We are constantly  optimizing our network  and inventory levels  as parts are used,  customers deploy  new products, and old  hardware becomes  obsolete. 
End of use  
 Returns   End-of-use is not end-of-life. Enabling  multiple lifecycles for our products  and the components inside them has  long been a Cisco priority. We operate  multiple programs to take back,  refurbish, and reuse products at end- of-use, including 10 different programs  to support our product trade-in and  recycling efforts. These are designed  to support the needs of our customers,  suppliers, partners, and internal users.  Read more about these programs in  the ESG Reporting Hub. Information on  our compliance with product recycling  regulations, such as the Waste Electrical  and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) can  be found here.  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Our progress: On track. In 2020, we implemented multiple ongoing projects to improve our tools  and systems and evaluated the results of pilots to identify opportunities  to further accelerate returns and reuse. Cisco is one of nine companies  that have committed to applying circular economy principles to recover  value along the product lifecycle. We participate in monthly calls and  quarterly workshops to share key learnings and identify collective actions  for accelerating the circular economy.  
Pledge:  In 2018, Cisco joined the  Platform for Accelerating the  Circular Economy (PACE) Capital  Equipment Coalition, pledging  100% product return. 
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence Supply Chain Excellence   Circular Economy 
Reuse  Reuse is always our first priority.  Returned devices that can be reused  are remanufactured, refurbished, or  repaired, and resold by Cisco Refresh  or used by Cisco CX Service Operations  or our internal labs. Any products that  are not reusable are harvested for  components and recycled by one of our  authorized recyclers.  
Cisco Refresh, our certified  remanufactured equipment program,  plays an important role in our circular  economy initiatives, creating a second  life for equipment and thereby not  only saving the resources required for  new manufacturing, but also reducing  waste. Cisco Refresh products are  backed by the same Cisco warranty  and service options as new products.  Equipment is sold only through Cisco  authorized resellers and is available  in more than 80 countries. Inventory  includes products from all technology  areas, including switching, routing,  wireless, IP telephony, security, and  other advanced technologies.  
Affiliated project of: 
We also reuse product in our Return  to A-Stock program, where unused  products from our distribution  centers are sent to be reused by  our contracted manufacturing sites.  In fiscal 2020, Cisco expanded  this program from nine sites to 10.  Returned products that are considered   new-in-box  are sent back to be  tested and, if necessary, reconfigured.  This allows us to better reuse these  products while also improving our  ability to satisfy demand for new  equipment without new manufacturing.  
Alongside our efforts to increase the  reuse of used equipment, we must  also address external barriers in  order to scale these opportunities.  We collaborate with peer companies,  NGOs, and policymakers to address  challenges and unintended  consequences, such as the many  global classifications of waste for  transboundary movement which can  impact our ability to repair equipment. 
End of life When products can no longer be used, they are sent to  recyclers to be responsibly harvested and recycled. We  currently have two contracted recyclers. Each recycler uses  both company-owned facilities and subcontracted recyclers  to provide global recycling coverage. Cisco s contracted  recyclers are required to be certified to one or more  e-scrap-specific recycling standards, such as R2, R2 Rios,  eStewards, and WEEELABEX. Our contracts also require  recyclers to enforce our strict recycling processes with any  of their subcontractors recycling Cisco materials. For more  information, please visit our ESG Reporting Hub.  
Customer programs 
    Cisco Takeback   Reuse  
    Exceptional Pick-Up Program 
    Customer Recycling Solutions 
   Cisco Migration Incentive  
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
The Cisco Returns Portal helps customers and partners  find the right return path to meet their needs. 
Cisco trade-in and recycling programs 
Programs for  companies producing  or repairing Cisco  products 
    Manufacturing Scrap Reuse  
    Global Scrap Program 
 Harvesting  To redeploy as much material as possible, Cisco allows  our recycling partners to harvest commodity components  from the equipment they receive. Recyclers may harvest  processors, memory, and other nonproprietary hardware  with sufficient market value to offset the cost of their  harvesting, cleaning, packaging, and resale. In fiscal 2020,  our component harvesting program allowed more than   120 million components to be reintroduced into the market,  thus extending their useful lives and reducing the need to  manufacture new parts. 
Internal programs for  Cisco 
    eBin Lab Scrap Program 
    Cisco Data Center Server  
    Non-Genuine Brand Program 
    Recycle IT Day Events 
Recycling Program 
TABLE 4: Product trade-in and returns 
Recycling  Recyclers are the last resort after we have exhausted  all options for reuse. They are the common destination  of all end-of-life materials, including customer returns,  employee office equipment, and lab equipment, as well as  excess, obsolete, and damaged materials from our contract  manufacturers, manufacturing partners, original equipment  manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers  (ODMs), contracted repair partners, and distribution depots.   A map of our recycler locations can be found on our   ESG Reporting Hub. 
Of products sent to our e-scrap recyclers, in fiscal 2020,  over 99.8 percent were broken down into commodity  fractions and sent to downstream vendors to create new  products. Since fiscal 2019, our target has been to keep the  percentage of material sent to landfill after initial processing  under 0.38 percent. While we continue to aim for decreased  material sent to landfill, we also recognize that Cisco has  limited control over the material received at the recycler (for  example, a customer s choices in packaging). Therefore, we  expect our landfill percentage to remain consistent annually.  
108 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
Green   Progress Black   Neutral 
KPI FY20 YoY Change Comments 
Product returns,   metric tonnes 
Refurbish, resell, and   reuse rate, percent 
Recycle rate, percent 84.55% -1.93  
Returned material sent   to landfill, percent 
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
15.29%  2.15  
0.16% -0.22  
8914 -9.60  
percentage  
percentage  
percentage  
percentage  
All materials sent for harvesting, recycling, and reuse, including materials  received via a Product Return Materials Authorization (RMA) 
Material returned from customers, stock rotations, or internal sources  that is redeployed by Value Recovery and Repo Depot groups to Cisco  Service Supply, Cisco Refresh, or internal users to avoid new purchases 
All remaining electronic waste materials, including plastics, and precious  and nonprecious metals, that are shredded and recycled by our  contracted e-scrap recyclers 
Landfill material consists only of nonelectronic waste materials, such as  broken pallets, wet cardboard, and shrink wrap accompanying Cisco  products returned by customers for recycling 
In fiscal 2020, we saw an overall decrease in return  volume coupled with an increase in our reuse, resale,  and refurbishment rate. Some of the decline is due to site  access limitations due to COVID-19 restrictions, as well as  a decline in returns of unused products. However, returns  at end-of-use have held steady, and this is the area we are  focused on for growth. Increases in reuse can be attributed  to incremental improvements in the channels for reused or  refurbished equipment, an area where we made progress  in fiscal 2020, despite challenges related to COVID-19. We  continue to explore opportunities to use recycled content  in our new products. The summary table above highlights  recent changes across our key KPIs  multiyear progress on  these metrics can be found on our ESG Reporting Hub. 
Improving the customer returns experience  
OF INTEREST 
The next impossibility:  achieving 100 percent   product takeback 
Watch video 
Circular Economy and Supply Chain Excellence 
Knowing that the user experience is key to driving product returns and the  circular model we envision, we simplified the product return process for customers  and partners in fiscal 2020. We analyzed over two dozen processes across Cisco  and found two areas where we could make an immediate change, with meaningful  impact for our customers.  
First, we consolidated all the information on Cisco returns procedures into one  Cisco Returns Portal. This new portal walks the user through the process step by  step, making it easier for customers and partners to complete returns at any stage  and providing a direct line to answer their questions.  
Second, we re-launched our product takeback program in the U.S. Takeback and  Recycle is now Takeback and Reuse. Customers can follow simple instructions  using a web form, a new call center, or our Send IT Back mobile app to conveniently  request a free pickup of any used Cisco equipment. This program can also be  applied to competitors  equipment, with approval. In the coming months, we plan to  expand this program in compliance with all global trade regulations.  
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Technology  for Good 
Why this matters to our business 
The world depends on Cisco technologies for networking,  collaboration, and security. Our customers are using our  solutions in countless ways that benefit people and the  environment, from providing remote medical checkups and  diagnoses with videoconferencing tools to improving their  digital infrastructures. In 2020, as a global pandemic spread,  thousands of businesses demonstrated the power of Cisco  collaboration tools when they transitioned to remote  operations, enabling vital business to continue. 
110 111 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
20  Some of our social impact grantees receive funding from other organizations.  
Please see the details on the criteria for the number of people positively  impacted between FY16-FY20 and the independent limited assurance report. 
Our progress: On track As of FY20, we have positively impacted  530 million  people through our social  impact grants and signature programs 
Goal:  Positively impact 1 billion people  through our social impact grants and  signature programs by 202520 
The same technology that generates sales for our business  can also be used by nonprofits working to solve the world s  greatest challenges, such as hunger, economic inequality, and  lack of access to education, including training in digital skills.  We re helping them address these challenges by investing  in technology-enabled, early-phase solutions and forming  long-term partnerships that allow organizations to use  technology to increase their impact. We re also teaching  digital skills to millions of students every year through Cisco  Networking Academy and investing in entrepreneurs who  harness technology for social impact through our annual  Cisco Global Problem Solver Challenge. Cisco set a goal in  2016 to positively impact 1 billion people through these  social impact grants and signature programs by 2025. We re  proud that, to date, we re already more than halfway to our  goal. We are continuing the process of reviewing the social  impact grants and signature programs, including how we  recognize those who are positively impacted. We plan to  provide an update in spring 2021 on the cumulative number  of people positively impacted together with our methodology. 
Human capital for tomorrow starts with  education today. Economies that invest  the least in quality education will have  workforces that are only 33 percent to   50 percent as productive as economies  where workers receive better education. 
of an education   
The value   
Real-time crisis response 
When a sudden disaster occurs, communication challenges often arise  between first responders, relief agencies, local governments, and other  organizations. In the absence of rapidly deployed connectivity, recovery  efforts are slower and less effective. 
About half of the world s population  uses the Internet. Extending access  
global economy and lift 500 million  
Internet access 
to the other half would add an  estimated US 6.7 trillion to the  
Expanding   
people out of poverty.  
How we engage 
As long as humanitarian crises  disproportionately affect the most  vulnerable members of society,  there cannot be an Inclusive Future  for all. Similarly, the promise of a  digital economy where connectivity  unleashes new possibilities for  creativity and innovation cannot be  realized until people s basic needs   for food, clean water, and adequate  shelter are met.  
That s why Cisco supports  organizations that help the most  vulnerable among us. We are proud  to partner with nonprofits and social  change agents worldwide who are  taking on the biggest challenges we  face as a global society. Knowing that  technology can help these organizations  increase their impact, our support takes  the form of both grants and donations  of Cisco technology. 
Critical human needs 
112 113 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Our technology is particularly essential  when used to restore connectivity  in crisis zones. Cisco s Tactical  Operations (TacOps) team deploys  trained team members to restore  mission-critical communications for  free in the wake of disasters and other  events where first responders and  affected populations need support.  TacOps is a full-time team supported  by employee volunteers who have  been providing crisis relief and logistics  support worldwide since Hurricane  Katrina in 2005. The team continues to  evolve to meet changing global needs.  
The organizations we support face  an uphill climb due to increasing  demand for their services. The UN  has reported that as of 2020, nearly  80 million people have been forcibly  displaced as a result of persecution,  conflict, violence, and human rights  violations more than any other time  in history. Natural disasters related to  climate change are also increasing  in frequency and intensity, which  will lead to further displacement.  Cisco s long-term focus on helping  vulnerable groups, like people facing  displacement or homelessness, has  enabled us to respond quickly to  help where needed throughout the  COVID-19 crisis. Whatever challenges  lie ahead of us, Cisco will be ready to  support those who need it the most.  
Technology for Good Technology for Good 
Initiatives to enable  progress  
Social investments in critical   human needs  Despite rapid economic development  in many parts of the world, millions  of people still lack access to basic  human needs: food, clean water,  and adequate shelter. We empower  nonprofits and social change agents  worldwide to address these problems.  Through scalable technology solutions,  we help organizations improve the  speed and efficiency of the services  they provide.  
On the following pages, we describe a  few of the nonprofits we partner with  that are meeting critical needs near our  headquarters and around the world.  Learn more about our strategic social  investments in the ESG Reporting Hub.  
   million   people 
have benefited from Mercy  Corps  Technology for Impact  program, supported by Cisco  since 2017 
homelessness prevention  
of families supported  by Destination: Home s  
program remain   stably housed 
Destination: Home, a Cisco nonprofit partner since 2018, works closely with public  sector and direct service organizations to develop and fund innovative strategies  to reduce and prevent homelessness in Santa Clara County, California. In the last  five years, Destination: Home and its partners have helped 14,000 people find  permanent housing and provided homelessness prevention services to nearly   6000 individuals. Cisco committed to helping them continue and scale their work  with a five-year, US 50 million commitment in March 2018. 
As organizations work to meet individuals  basic needs, technology can play an   important role. For example, as Cisco s long-term partnership with Mercy Corps   shows, technology can be used to help refugees find services, distribute  emergency supplies, provide financial assistance to vulnerable communities,   and support small businesses faster and more effectively.  
We are currently in the third year of Technology for Impact, a five-year, US 10 million   initiative to help Mercy Corps test and invest in advanced technologies to make  an even bigger difference. Many of the technologies being tested are new to  humanitarian settings, such as virtual reality therapies for posttraumatic stress  disorder and a digital platform to help refugees access information and support  services. Our support also includes donations of Cisco products for Mercy  Corps  114 offices in 29 countries and 67 community WiFi hubs in six countries,  with over 670,000 users since 2017. During fiscal 2020, Cisco supported the  COVID-19 Resilience Fund with an additional donation of US 3 million, which  helped Mercy Corps connect communities with reliable health information and  provide digital cash services that give people the dignity of choice to meet their  urgent needs. 
During 2020, COVID-19 intensified many of the factors that make people  vulnerable, such as unstable employment, lack of access to healthcare or  childcare, chronic disease risk, and an inability to safely shelter in place.  Pandemic-related assistance, therefore, became the main focus of Destination:  Home s work. The organization supported its partners in expanding temporary  shelter capacity and provided hygiene kits, handwashing stations, and clean  water to people experiencing homelessness. The organization also launched the  Santa Clara County COVID-19 Financial Assistance Program, administered in  collaboration with a group of direct service organizations. Over four months,  Cisco contributed US 10 million to this fund, which has helped provide  emergency financial assistance to 11,000 vulnerable, low-income households  with a documented loss of income to help them meet their basic needs. Cisco  employees are important contributors to our work to end homelessness read more  in Employee Community Impact. 
TacOps responds to fast-moving  natural disasters, as well as sustained  crises like mass migrations and  disease outbreaks. 
Expanding TacOps  reach  Cisco s Tactical Operations (TacOps) team got its start  helping communities recover from natural disasters,  following Hurricane Katrina in 2005. In recent years, its  work has expanded to include not only fast-moving events  like these but also sustained crises like forced mass  migrations and disease outbreaks. With the increasing  number, scope, and complexity of many types of crises,  TacOps is growing its roster of trained volunteers to scale  and sustain its work. During COVID-19, TacOps has  provided remote support to testing centers, food bank  warehouses, call centers, pop-up hospitals, and other  facilities responding to the pandemic. 
114 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 115 
Technology for Good 
Now, we re training not only our 300 Disaster Incident  Response Team (DIRT) volunteers to deploy and maintain  crisis communication networks, but also NGO IT staff and  other corporate volunteer partners. A larger pool of skilled  volunteers allows TacOps to focus resources on the most  difficult challenges in the acute phase of a crisis, then  hand over long-term operational and sustaining work to  our partners. We are also leveraging Cisco s expertise in  cybersecurity and deploying our secure networks amid  advancing security threats. 
One prolonged crisis to which TacOps has been responding  is the migration of Venezuelans from their home country  in response to dire economic conditions and government  instability. More than 5 million people have left the country  since 2014, fleeing to Peru, Colombia, Brazil, and other  countries. Migrants need Internet connectivity in order to  take steps to restart their lives, such as applying for asylum,  finding work, or accessing support services. In partnership  with NetHope, TacOps has provided this essential access by  setting up equipment at dozens of shelters and community  centers along the migration route.  
established in  Colombia and  
14.4 million 
for Venezuelan  
security threats   
TacOps  support   
unique users on  
Connecting families in need to surplus food 
OF INTEREST 
When he was a child in Syria, Maen  Mahfoud s mother would cook food   for him and his brother to deliver to  neighbors in need. They traveled the  neighborhood on bikes, passing out  meals before returning home to eat their  own lunches. The idea of sharing with  his community came back to him years  later, when he was a student at the  University of California, Berkeley.  
 I began to see people digging into  trash cans looking for a meal,  Mahfoud  says.  I was frustrated. The U.S. is such  a wealthy country, and you have people  who are going hungry and sleeping in  the streets. I just couldn t understand  how this could even be possible with all  the technology available to solve the  world s biggest problems.   
This feeling combined with the memory  of his mother s generosity inspired  Mahfoud to create Replate, a digital  platform for food recovery. Businesses  with surplus food can schedule  
on-demand pickups of their food, which  is then delivered to local nonprofits that  serve people experiencing food  insecurity. Nonprofits receive meals for  free, while food donors pay a small fee  that covers Replate s operations.  It  makes sense for companies to pay for  our service because giving back is part  of their corporate social responsibility,   Mahfoud says.  We also charge  because we believe it s important to  place an economic cost on this food  surplus to send a message about the  cost of food waste,  Mahfoud says.  
COVID-19 shifted the landscape for  Replate. Donors, who often have   food left over from catering or events,  canceled those events. At the same  time, demand for food surged as  unemployment rose. Cisco and   the Cisco Foundation provided   US 1.2 million to Replate to help   them rapidly adapt their business  model, collecting food from restaurants  and farmers  markets and delivering it  
Technology for Good 
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
directly to individuals at home, with a  focus on at-risk populations.  
In a way, this home delivery model  brings Mahfoud closer to the approach  to giving that he learned from his  mother. With the infrastructure to  support deliveries to both businesses  and individuals now in place, Replate  will be ready to respond to community  needs as they evolve.  
 We don t have food insecurity  because there is a lack of food,   Mahfound explains.  We have enough  food for everyone, even with the  current situation with COVID-19.   Rather, food insecurity exists because  access is unevenly distributed. What  we consider  waste  can be used to  provide wholesome meals to those  experiencing food insecurity. 
Learning and digital skills development  
How we engage 
In our digital world, education and technology go hand-in-hand.  Digital media, hands-on labs, and virtual tools can help enliven  curricula and keep students connected. And education in  digital skills can open the door to careers in technology and  other fields.  
As a leading technology company, Cisco is committed to  offering inclusive access to digital skills training and supporting  those who use technology to educate. After all, even the most  transformative innovations have no value if people don t know  how to use them, or don t have access to them.  
This insight helped inspire Cisco Networking Academy,  the world's largest and longest-running corporate social  responsibility education program, through which we ve  trained over 12.6 million people in digital skills over the  past 23 years across 180 countries. The program covers  introductory to advanced networking, network automation  and programmability, cybersecurity, IoT, digital literacy, and  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
Technology for Good Technology for Good 
entrepreneurship. It is a skills-to-jobs program that offers, not  only courses, but also connections to top-quality employment  opportunities through the Talent Bridge program. Courses  are designed so that any teenager or adult with an Internet  connection can participate, regardless of technical skill level  or background. In this way, Cisco is helping address the global  skills shortage, as well as creating opportunity for millions  in today s and tomorrow s workforce. Globally, Networking  Academy reaches a geographically diverse population of  students, including 34 percent from the Americas, 29 percent  from APJC, and 37 percent from EMEAR, 44 percent of which  are from Africa and the Middle East. 
Additional programs, grants, and donations are helping bridge  the technology skills gap within the U.S. military community  and develop 21st-century talent. One program helps veterans  and their spouses gain tech skills and careers after their  military service. We also created an animated video series for  students in grades 4-8 to help them develop problem-solving  skills, and make grants and donations of our technology that  help improve access to quality education worldwide. 
Initiatives to enable progress 
Social investments in education  Educational opportunity is a strategic social investment  focus for Cisco and the Cisco Foundation. Through grants to  nonprofits, we fund programs that use technology to:  
    Expand inclusive access to primary and secondary   
    Improve student attendance, behavior, and overall   
    Increase student STEM engagement and career exploration 
    Build teacher capacity and nurture quality proven practices 
    Leverage STEM partner networks 
We follow a proven strategy focused on early-phase  solutions, where funding is most needed and where we can  make the biggest difference. Learn more about this strategy  and the many organizations that Cisco supports in the ESG  Reporting Hub. Below are a few U.S.-based partners who  have received our support and are now making a meaningful  impact.  
New Teacher Center (NTC) provides leadership development  and coaching for new teachers and school leaders serving  students with the highest needs, in order to combat  education inequities and empower communities. Cisco  supported development of NTC s technology-driven  solutions, including Classroom Connection Program, which  protects teacher-student relationships from the harmful  effects of stigma and bias. 
STEM education 
course outcomes 
25,000  teachers  
in 400 districts across   22 states in 2019-2020 
NTC served 
With more students learning from home, it s more crucial  than ever for teachers and parents to stay connected but  this can be difficult for households that speak a language  different than the one spoken at school. TalkingPoints  bridges the communication gap between parents and  teachers by automatically translating messages between  them, allowing teachers to interact with parents and other  guardians in over 100 languages. The result: improved  learning outcomes for students and better teacher-parent  relationships. Cisco provided cash grant support to help  TalkingPoints develop its mobile platform. 
CommonLit creates free curated, culturally relevant digital  education resources in English and Spanish for students in  grades 3 12, and has seen a massive increase in demand  for its programming during the COVID-19 related school  closures. In the first few weeks of the pandemic, CommonLit  saw a sevenfold increase in traffic and a tenfold increase  in parent sign-ups compared to prior weeks. Thanks to  a grant from Cisco, students can now use CommonLit s  Annotation Tool to take notes directly on their digital reading  assignments and receive feedback from teachers. 
1.2 million students 
created new CommonLit accounts in March 2020 
920,000  students  
during the 2019-2020  
TalkingPoints   
school year 
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
conversations 
50 million 
between teachers   
and facilitated 
and families 
Strengthening our impact The Cisco Networking Academy  course portfolio and associated  resources for students and instructors  is always growing. In fiscal 2020, we  evolved our highly regarded CCNA  courses to address the growth  and automation of networks. We  also created a new Programmable  Infrastructure pathway based on the  increased importance of programming  skills. In addition, we added two new  training courses, CyberOps Associate  and DevNet Associate, that align with  certifications. To increase interest in  the new cybersecurity certification  and support students in their career  aspirations, we engaged prospective  students with events, quizzes, and  a virtual career fair to showcase the  field s potential. We also introduced  digital badges for students who  complete courses and have passed  an assessment, verifying their skills for  employers. Students can now easily  display these badges on social media  profiles and r sum s as an official  indicator of their credentials.  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
Our progress: Achieved. We achieved this goal in FY19 and  continue to reach over 2 million students  yearly, with 2.3 million in FY20.  
Goal:  Reach 2 million   Cisco Networking Academy  students per year by 2020. 
One of Networking Academy s  priorities is to make technology a  more inclusive space all around the  world by empowering students from  diverse backgrounds, education levels,  and experiences. In the United States,  diverse populations participated in the  program, with 14 percent of students  identifying as Black or African American,  14 percent as Hispanic or Latino,   10 percent as Asian, and 2 percent as  American Indian or Alaska Native, or  Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander.  
In terms of gender diversity, 26 percent   of student participants in fiscal 2020  were female, with some regions  reporting even higher representation.  For example, the Middle East had 29  percent female representation, Latin  America had 30 percent, and India and  South Asia had 31 percent. Greater  China was highest at 34 percent  female participation. The Women  Rock-IT program continues to motivate  young people to consider STEM  subjects, through inspiring broadcasts  from female IT professionals  and entrepreneurs. It also offers  
Technology for Good 
participants free course enrollment into  Networking Academy. As a direct result  of this program, these young people  took more than 550,000 courses  such as Introduction to Cybersecurity,  Introduction to IoT, Programming  Essentials in Python, Entrepreneurship,  and Linux Essentials. 
In addition, we have diverse  representation of learners with  disabilities and reached more than  56,000 students with disabilities  globally in fiscal 2020. To achieve  this, academies have adapted their  educational approaches in unique  ways depending on the populations  they serve. For example, the Royal  National College for the Blind in the U.K.  created a tactile network topology kit  to allow students to design and  feel   network maps. AbilITy Academy, made  possible through a partnership with  the Institute for Career Development  in New York City, helps students with  disabilities develop teamwork and  presentation skills, allowing them to  benefit from peer-to-peer instruction.  The Employers  Federation of Ceylon  Training for Persons with Disabilities,  in Sri Lanka, serves students with  vision, hearing, mobility, and cognitive  disabilities, and makes appropriate  adjustments to meet all students  needs.  
FY18 FY19 FY20 
Student participants 
Student participants 
CHART 35:  
21 Based on student outcome survey participants for  scal 2020.  22 Includes Instructor Survey participants in  scal 2020 who were actively teaching. 23 Based on student outcome survey participant results between  scal 2005 and  scal 2020. 
11,800 Academy partners 28,400 instructors 12.6 million total students 
Since inception,  
Networking Academy reached:  
Countries with highest Cisco Networking Academy participation in  scal 2020 
of students completing  CCNA curriculum or higher  say Networking Academy  helped them obtain a job or  educational opportunity21 
Costa Rica 
United States 
In  scal 2020, we reached: 
2.3 million students  26% of whom were female 
Cisco Networking Academy 
Europe, Middle East,  Africa, and Russia (EMEAR) 
of instructors say that  Networking Academy  helped them become a  better educator22 
56,000  students with disabilities 
Saudi Arabia 
United Kingdom 
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
2.7 million 
Asia-Paci c, Japan,  and China (APJC) 
Bangladesh 
students who participated  in Cisco career certi cation  or IT Essentials courses  report that Networking  Academy helped them  obtain a new job23  
Philippines 
OF INTEREST  Sharing skills with the  next generation 
Networking Academy instructor Olivia Braga came from  very humble beginnings. As one of six children whose  parents earned income cleaning streets, money for  transportation let alone quality education was hard to  come by. But Braga discovered her passion for technology  at an early age, and walked three hours each way to  attend a school that had higher education standards.  
As a teenager, she discovered Cisco Networking  Academy at Funda  o Bradesco in Osasco, Brazil. She  completed the coursework, and today, Braga is a Cisco  Networking Academy instructor at Polytechnic School at  the University of S o Paulo, as well as a doctoral student  in electrical engineering. A talented and passionate  educator, Braga is committed to helping students from  all backgrounds succeed. Her favorite part of the job?   When a student introduces me to their family and says,   I got a job because of what you taught me,   Braga says. 
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 120 
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
When I learn that a student got a job or  has a new skill, I feel a great sense of  accomplishment. One of the great pleasures   of this profession is when a student tells me  that they are happy and fulfilled in their career. 
    Olivia Braga, Cisco Networking Academy instructor 
Technology for Good 
Ensuring learning never stops  As the COVID-19 crisis unfolded in 2020, we saw the shift  toward digital education accelerate in real time. We saw  trends we d previously expected to take root over many  years instead become reality almost overnight. With years of  experience delivering online curriculum and leading-edge  learning tools at global scale and meeting the diverse needs of  learners worldwide, the Cisco Networking Academy team was  well-positioned to respond quickly with resources for both  instructors and students as they navigated their new virtual  learning environments. 
Cisco offered free Webex access to allow educators to  go virtual quickly. We also organized webinars on best  practices for remote teaching in multiple languages and  time zones and provided Cisco Packet Tracer, a simulation  and virtualization tool that mimics the experience of working  with real equipment. In addition, we launched a campaign  to attract new students to participate in our free self- enrolled courses, encouraging them to explore a new skill  from home.  
Supporting servicemembers and their spouses Cisco recognizes the value that veterans bring to the  workplace. For nearly 10 years, our Veterans Program has  helped U.S. servicemembers and their spouses find jobs in  the IT industry, and continues to help thousands of people  gain skills and find jobs every year.  
Our signature programs include the Veterans Talent  Incubation Program (VTIP), a 20-week program through  which veterans can access free Cisco Certified Network  Associate training and get hired into network engineering  roles at Cisco. Through CyberVetsUSA, a tech industry  consortium, we help connect veterans and spouses with  training, certification, and employment at a range of leading  technology companies. And in fiscal 2020, Networking  Academy reached an important milestone: training over  100,000 servicemembers across more than 70 military  installations since inception in 1997. 
Watch video 
Bringing lessons to life 
In fiscal 2020, we helped increase the real-world relevance  of Global Problem Solvers: The Series by adding video  interviews with winners of Cisco s Global Problem Solver  Challenge, helping students imagine the many ways they  can use the skills taught in the series to make a difference. 
Technology for Good 
Most of our veterans  programs are available to spouses of  current and former servicemembers. We have deepened our  focus on military spouses in recent years, recognizing the  unique barriers that they often face to finding employment,  given frequent moves and often living outside an urban  center. The Cisco Talent Incubation Program provides the  same training as VTIP, adapted to meet the needs of military  spouses and other individuals looking to reenter the workforce  after an extended absence. In fiscal 2020, Cisco signed on  to American Corporate Partners  (ACP) Active Duty Spouse  Mentoring Program, connecting military spouses with Cisco  employees who provide career development advice, r sum   and interviewing tips, and networking assistance. 
Teaching kids about social entrepreneurship  With Global Problem Solvers: The Series, an animated  video series, Cisco is helping students in grades 4-8 learn  that being a social entrepreneur is as simple as working  with others, being creative, and using technology to solve  problems. Each episode tackles a different stage of social  entrepreneurship, from defining a problem to marketing a  product. The series, along with lesson plans for teachers, is  available in English, French, Hindi, and Spanish.  
Economic empowerment  
How we engage 
An Inclusive Future is one in which everyone has a pathway to economic  opportunity. To create this future, we must provide people with equitable access  to the knowledge, skills, and resources needed to support themselves and their  families. Empowered people and families can then fully participate in and contribute  to local community growth and economic development. Digital connectivity can   play a role in achieving economic self-sufficiency: countries with high levels of  digital readiness also tend to have stronger economies.  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
Technology for Good Technology for Good 
Image (right) courtesy of Laboratoria 
Cisco seed funding,  technology donations,  and expertise help  organizations provide  equitable access to the  knowledge, skills, and  resources needed to  build strong economies. 
One of Cisco s social investment focus areas is economic empowerment for  underserved and underrepresented populations. For more than a decade, we have  been providing cash grants, donating Cisco technology, and contributing staff time  and expertise to nonprofits that design and deliver technology-based solutions in  three areas for thriving in a digital economy.  
First, we connect people with technical and professional skills training, mentoring  and coaching, and employment opportunities to help them find jobs that provide  stable and sufficient income and long-term career progression. These investments  help to address the uneven distribution of technology skills and employment  opportunities that persists across the world.  
Second, to facilitate widespread and equitable access to banking for the  unbanked, we support nonprofit organizations that design and deliver digital  financial products and services. These products and services facilitate economic  independence and self-sufficiency, and support community-level economic  growth and development.  
Finally, with a belief that innovation can come from anywhere, we support  entrepreneurs with access to capital, networks, and resources to launch and  expand businesses that support job creation. We support small business  entrepreneurs who create local jobs and drive community-level economic  development, as well as high-growth-potential entrepreneurs who create jobs  and economic growth on a national and or global scale. We aim to support  entrepreneurs who create jobs and contribute to economic growth, with a   focus on women- and minority-led businesses, as well as businesses that have  social impact.  
Beyond grants to nonprofits, Cisco has launched several entrepreneurship  awards programs over the past few years that have become an important part of  our strategy. Through friendly competition and lucrative prizes, we enable social  entrepreneurs and changemakers of all ages and backgrounds to share their  ideas on a global stage and, through our funding, advance their ideas to deliver  results and impact.  
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
increase in total year-over-year  income for AnnieCannons graduates 
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
graduates are employed,  
earning stable and  dignified income 
of AnnieCannons  
Initiatives to enable progress  
Social investments in economic empowerment  Cisco supports technology-based programs that connect underserved people  to relevant skills, meaningful employment, entrepreneurial opportunities, financial  products and services, and other resources they need to thrive in the digital  economy. During fiscal 2020, many of our grantee partners had to pivot to  address new and emerging needs arising from COVID-19, as well as scaling up   to reach additional people in need of support. 
Here are a few partners that are making a difference with Cisco s help. Learn more  about our strategic social investments in the ESG Reporting Hub.  
Victims of human trafficking often come to believe that they cannot survive without  their traffickers part of a dangerous cycle of exploitation that can be difficult to  escape. Beginning with the premise that economic opportunity is the key to breaking  this cycle, U.S.-based AnnieCannons trains human trafficking survivors in in-demand  technology skills. Training starts in a coding boot camp, and students quickly  transition to earning income by providing software services to real-world clients.  AnnieCannons offers all equipment and training to students free of charge, and the  leadership team handles all business development so that survivors can focus on  project-based learning. They also provide a supportive and safe atmosphere where  clients can recover from trauma. Cisco has donated our technology and is providing  funding that directly supports development of AnnieCannons  training program and  instructional staff. With the revenue that students earn from paid client contracts,  they are on track to become financially stable, providing a source of independence  that helps them break the cycle of exploitation. 
Technology for Good 
Entrepreneurship for All (EforAll) is a small business nonprofit accelerator  whose aim is to accelerate economic and social impact in communities across  the United States through inclusive entrepreneurship. They work with aspiring,  underrepresented entrepreneurs who are in the idea stage or looking to pivot  and grow an existing business. EforAll offers two primary programs at no cost to  aspiring entrepreneurs: pitch contests and the one-year Accelerator Program,  which includes intensive business training, dedicated mentors, and access to an  extended professional network. 
In-person interactions have been an essential part of EforAll s program work to  help people make connections and gain confidence. During COVID-19, EforAll  pivoted to deliver the program entirely online. Cisco s previous support helped  EforAll digitize its internal operations, entrepreneur outreach and support, and impact  evaluation, which enabled them to quickly pivot to a fully remote environment.  EforAll-supported businesses generated over US 25 million in revenue in 2019   and created 720 local jobs. Nearly 75 percent of the entrepreneurs they support  are women, and 58 percent are people of color. 
financial products and services   
created and retained via  Opportunity International s   
4 million  
over the past three years 
Technology for Good 
Opportunity International designs and delivers banking  products, services, and capacity-building training to low- income people globally who lack access to financial products  and services. The organization s work helps people not only  support themselves and their families, but also empowers  them to contribute to their local economy and create new  jobs for their neighbors. Their work enables families to  send their children to school, helps entrepreneurs start and  expand businesses, assists farmers in improving their crop  yields and income, helps women to become financially  independent, and provides a secure and accessible way  for individuals and families to save money. Over the past  three years Cisco and Opportunity International have worked  together to create a suite of digital financial products and  services, primarily for women, that have reached more than  20 million people and created 4 million jobs exceeding our  initial goal of creating 3 million jobs by 30 percent. 
of businesses started by EforAll  alumni are still active after three  
years, 8 percentage points  
businesses started by  
higher than the U.S.   
national average 
EforAll alumni 
Cisco Global Problem   Solver Challenge Now in its fifth year, the Cisco Global  Problem Solver Challenge is an  online competition that awards cash  prizes to early-stage startups with  technology-based solutions for social  and environmental problems. Since  launching the program in 2016, we ve  awarded US 1.25 million to   43 technology startups from   15 different countries. In our 2020  competition, we narrowed the field  from over 500 submissions to   13 winning teams, awarding a total  of US 350,000 to young social  entrepreneurs from around the world.  
Our 2020 Grand Prize winner is  Savanna Circuit Tech, founded by  Kenyans Emmastella Gakuo and  Percy Lemtukei. The team developed  a solar chilling in-transit system  to help dairy businesses in Africa  reduce post-harvest losses. In Kenya,  where Savanna Circuit Tech is based,  70 percent of dairy producers are  smallholder dairy farmers, and 1 million  people work on family-run farms.  These smallholder farmers produce  5.3 billion liters of milk each year, but  because transporting it from farm to  market can take up to five hours,   30 percent of this milk goes to waste.  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback 
Savannah Circuit Tech,  Cisco Global Problem  Solver Challenge 2020  Grand Prize winner 
Awards for entrepreneurs to recognize the work of  individuals using technology for positive social impact. 
Since the dairy market has generally  been overlooked in terms of  technology access, Savanna Circuit  Tech designed a solution that solves  farmers  problems with a combination  of software and hardware. Savanna  Circuit Tech s mobile solar-powered  milk chillers can be mounted on  any means of transportation, like  a motorcycle or a truck. The units  come in various sizes, are portable,  and are 100 percent solar powered.  The solution includes sensors that  monitor the volume, temperature, pH,  and location of the milk in real time  during transportation. This AI-enabled  solution helps prevent milk spoilage  while maximizing profits for dairy  producers. Gakuo and Lemtukei will use  the US 100,000 prize money to expand  their manufacturing process, offer  their solution in more countries, and  get closer to their goal of increasing  revenues and providing employment  opportunities for 50 million smallholder  dairy farmers worldwide. 
Technology for Good 
Priya Prakash, Global  Citizen Prize: Cisco  Youth Leadership  Award 2019 winner 
Global Citizen Prize: Cisco Youth  Leadership Award Cisco and Global Citizen have formed  a strong partnership based on our  shared vision of creating an Inclusive  Future by ending global poverty.  One element of our partnership is  the Global Citizen Prize: Cisco Youth  Leadership Award, which was given for  the second time in 2019. The award  celebrates an individual between the  ages of 18 and 30 who has contributed  meaningfully toward the goal of ending  poverty in their community. 
Cisco Executive Vice President and  Chief People Officer Fran Katsoudas  presented the 2019 award to Priya  Prakash, a healthcare entrepreneur and  the founder and CEO of HealthSetGo.  HealthSetGo helps provide access  to healthcare at school for families  across India to help children grow up  healthy. Children receive annual health  checks at school by qualified doctors,  as well as access to insurance and  health education. HealthSetGo uses  technology to give a digital health  card to children so that parents and  the school are empowered to track  children s health and make data-based  decisions about care. 
More than 180,000 children in 77 cities  across India have gone through the  school health program, and HealthSetGo  has provided health education sessions  to 20,000 parents. Prakash will  use the US 250,000 prize money to  continue providing access to healthcare  services and create a sustainable  business model for HealthSetGo, with a  vision of impacting 1 million children by  2023. 
OF INTEREST  Saving lives and creating jobs  
Living Goods provides  health workers with  technology to help  them be more effective.  
reduction in mortality of   children under age 5 through  Living Goods  programs 27%  
Watch video 
When children get sick in the middle of the night in the Kibuli neighborhood in  Kampala, Uganda, their parents don t typically call a hospital. Instead, they call  someone like Annet Kirabo, a community health worker (CHW). CHWs deliver  quality, on-call healthcare advice and treatments to their neighbors  doorsteps.  Kirabo can test for diseases, offer vaccine counseling and referral advice, deliver  medication, and more, a critical service in Uganda where health workers are in  short supply.  
Living Goods, a Cisco community partner, equips CHWs with technology to help  them be more effective. Cisco funded the development of Living Goods  Smart  Health app and underlying technology platform that CHWs use to track patients   immunization records, monitor the health of pregnant women and newborns, and  better detect and diagnose health conditions. Living Goods also provides CHWs with  ongoing training and earning opportunities. At the organization level, Living Goods  uses the technology platform to track inventory, sales, performance of CHWs, and  overall patient health. 
 Living Goods has eased my work,  Kirabo says. With all of the information she  needs at her fingertips on her mobile device, she no longer has to carry heavy  books with information on possible diagnoses and treatments. With Cisco's  support, Living Goods  more than 10,000 CHWs are providing access to lifesaving  care for more than 8 million people. 
During the COVID-19 crisis, CHWs  work became that much more essential. The  world s most vulnerable communities face high risk for COVID-19 infection but  also continue to be impacted by preexisting critical health threats. Cisco supported  Living Goods  immediate and longer-term response to the pandemic. Our support  enabled them to ensure continuity of care for vulnerable and hard-to-reach  populations in Kenya and Uganda  trained CHWs in COVID-19 prevention, early  detection, and reporting  and integrated a new COVID-19 workflow into the Smart  Health app. We also supported Living Goods staff who advised ministries of health  in multiple countries on COVID-19 data collection, prevention, preparedness, and  response. Now, more parts of the world can apply Living Goods  proven approach,  combining technology and community connections to fight infectious disease.  
Technology for Good 
feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
How we engage 
Cisco s impact goes beyond our grants and partnerships with  nonprofit organizations. The actions of our customers also  make an indirect impact. When we speak about those who are  making the most of digitization, we are thinking of innovators  who use Cisco s data analytics and collaboration tools to  improve quality of life and reduce harm to the environment.  Networking and security products that keep organizations  safe. Quality healthcare anywhere. Solutions that allow work  and education to continue without disruption. 
Because we want everyone to reap the benefits of these  breakthroughs, Cisco works with our customers in a variety  of arrangements to help them achieve their goals. Through  the Country Digital Acceleration (CDA) program, we  partner with national leadership to help them progress  on their digitization journeys, from installing public Wi-Fi  to educating citizens in technology skills through Cisco  Networking Academy. And with thought leadership on  topics such as remote collaboration and the evolution of the  workplace, we help businesses understand how to transform  their businesses for an inclusive digital future where no one   is left behind.  
IT solutions  
2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
Technology for Good Technology for Good 
Initiatives to enable progress 
Country digital acceleration  Higher levels of digital readiness are associated with increased  economic benefit. Given this well-established connection,  countries around the world are looking for ways to deliver  what s possible with technology. But where is the best place  to begin? And how can countries ensure that all citizens are  included in the digital revolution?  
Cisco launched CDA in 2015 to answer these questions.  CDA programs are long-term partnerships with government  leaders, industry, and academia designed to unlock the value  of digitization. By modernizing infrastructure, creating new  jobs, and fostering innovation and education across public  and private sectors, we can create new value for countries,  businesses, and citizens. Cisco is one of few organizations  tackling digitization on the national level at this scale. 
A CDA program begins with a review of a country s national  digital agenda and meetings with heads of state. If a program  appears viable, Cisco develops a multiyear execution plan  and budget. Country programs are tailored to local needs,  ranging from cybersecurity and smart and connected cities  to healthcare, education, utilities, and transportation. Cisco is  one of few organizations tackling digitization on the national  level at this scale. 
encompassing 60 percent of  
the world s population and   75 percent of global GDP  
active or completed CDA  projects in 37 countries,  
Providing a highly secure and flexible  collaboration platform for the National  Council of Justice to conduct virtual  witness interviews, hearings, and  judgment sessions during COVID-19 
San Francisco, USA 
Using IoT technologies to  create an intelligent traffic  signal system that will reduce  pedestrian road deaths 
Deploying free public Wi-Fi to  libraries during the COVID-19  pandemic, enabling students  to learn remotely 
Arizona, USA 
See how Country Digital Acceleration projects are  positively impacting communities around the world:  
Supplying video monitors, machine learning,  routers, switches, and other infrastructure to  enable safe operation of autonomous vehicles 
United Kingdom 
Turin, Italy 
Expanding Cisco Networking  Academy to homeless shelters  and prisons across the city,  allowing marginalized members of  society to develop new skill sets 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands 
Creating a port that is cleaner, more  efficient, and ready for electrified,  autonomous ships 
Maharashtra, India 
Deploying Internet connectivity so  that a local girls  school can access  online educational resources 
Leveraging AI in Chang Gung  Hospital to more accurately detect  and diagnose cancer cases 
New Taipei City, Taiwan 
Roger Lupe is a high school student at Dishchii'bikoh Community School, a  K-12 school district on the White Mountain Apache Reservation in Cibecue,  Arizona. He lives in one of the poorest counties in the United States, where  modern services are scarce. For many students, attending college is a far-off  possibility, given the hours of travel required to get to a campus. 
With Cisco technology, Northland Pioneer College (NPC) is helping to change  that. The college installed Cisco Webex Room Kit Pros on its campus and in the  classrooms of 16 high schools spanning over 21,000 square miles, including  Dishchii'bikoh. Room Kits allow remote students to virtually experience a  classroom, with cameras that follow an instructor as they move. Now, students  can begin to earn college credit while still in high school, jumpstarting their  college educations without the need to travel. To date, more than 6000  students have taken part in NPC s distance learning program. 
 Cisco technology allows NPC to open the doors to college education for  students who would probably never have considered attending college,   says Dr. Jessica Clark, Vice President Learning and Student Services at  NPC.  We re helping these students transform their lives, which also allows  communities to change their economic sustainability.   
As for Lupe,  He s more confident now,  says Phil Endfield, Dishchii'bikoh s  Principal.  He is ready to move on to the next level of his education.  
It s always been my goal to experience the  world outside my reservation and come back  with that experience to make my reservation  a better and safer place.  
   Roger Lupe 
131 2020 CSR Impact Report     csr.cisco.com     feedback feedback     csr.cisco.com     2020 CSR Impact Report 
OF INTEREST  Bringing a   college education  closer to home  
The future of work  The nature of work is changing. A  multigenerational workforce has  new expectations for flexible work.  COVID-19 may have permanently  upended norms about remote work,  particularly in sectors that may not have  seriously considered it before. Against  this backdrop, businesses must adapt to  keep workers safe and productive while  meeting the needs of their customers.  
Cisco has been developing secure  remote collaboration solutions since  2006 and can help ensure that the  future of work is productive and  efficient. To meet the unprecedented  demand for collaboration tools that  emerged during the pandemic,  for example, Cisco expanded its  software capabilities so that businesses  could stay connected, without  compromising quality or security. Used  inside Cisco offices, in remote settings,  and by our customers, Cisco s  collaboration solutions provide the  following personalized, secure, and  reliable experiences for the modern  workforce and educational institutions. 
   Seamless collaboration with  
   Smart, hybrid work experiences with  
   Intelligent customer experiences with  
   Security, privacy, management,   
integrated collaboration devices 
anyone, from anywhere, working  in-sync with the Webex calling,  messaging, meetings, and integration  functionality they love 
digital-first engagement 
and insights that are built-in, not  bolted-on 
Remote collaboration tools can also reduce emissions  related to business travel, whether by reducing flights taken  or limiting daily commutes to work. For example, National  Trust, a historical preservation nonprofit in the United  Kingdom, spent  2 million a year on fuel for car travel  before it started using Webex for meetings. After adopting  Webex, an executive estimated that a single virtual meeting  attended by participants across the country saved 1000  miles, or a total of 34 hours of car travel. Similarly, a recent  Cisco report on the benefits of virtual meetings estimates  that by holding 30 percent of in-person meetings virtually,  the country of Sweden could reduce CO2 emissions by  550,000 tonnes.  
Connectivity in critical settings  Hospitals and other healthcare facilities are some of the  highest-stakes environments in which Cisco solutions operate.  Digitization is becoming an increasingly important part of  quality care, and Cisco supports over 17,000 healthcare  organizations in 118 countries as a trusted partner. When lives  are at stake, care providers can t risk downtime or missing  data. This has been especially true during the COVID-19  pandemic. As hospitals around the world responded to surges  in capacity and new safety protocols, Cisco helped them  scale with simple, packaged solutions and support to unlock  
Technology for Good 
    Using Webex to speak with patients awaiting diagnoses,  
    Running Webex on Ava Robotics  mobile robot, which  
Read more about how Cisco has helped customers,  including healthcare customers, during the COVID-19 crisis. 
government funding for new technology. Here are a few ways  that our customers and partners are using Cisco solutions to  deliver the very best care: 
    Integrating Cisco DNA Spaces with STANLEY Healthcare  
    Helping parents of newborns with congenital heart  
    Enabling a custom version of Webex on Samsung tablets  
using screen-sharing to display medical scans and video to  create a deeper emotional connection 
family members and healthcare providers can use to    visit  family members in assisted living facilities while   in quarantine 
to allow clinical staff to conduct virtual consultations and  daily virtual rounds with the patients at their facilities in  support of physical distancing 
to track the location of medical devices and other critical  equipment, monitor the temperature of medications and  vaccines, and monitor the safety of patients and staff 
defects to safely monitor their babies  health at home,  while communicating with healthcare providers at  University Hospitals via Cisco Jabber 
Americas Headquarters   Americas Headquarters   Cisco Systems, Inc.   Cisco Systems, Inc.   San Jose, CA San Jose, CA 
Asia Pacific Headquarters   Asia Pacific Headquarters   Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd.   Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd.   Singapore Singapore 
Europe Headquarters   Europe Headquarters   Cisco Systems International BV Amsterdam,   Cisco Systems International BV Amsterdam,   The Netherlands The Netherlands 
Cisco has more than 440 offices worldwide. Addresses, phone numbers, and   Cisco has more than 440 offices worldwide. Addresses, phone numbers, and   fax numbers are listed on the Cisco website at  fax numbers are listed on the Cisco website at www.cisco.com go offices.   Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and  Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and  or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. To view a list of Cisco trademarks,  or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. To view a list of Cisco trademarks,  go to this URL:  go to this URL: www.cisco.com go trademarks. Third party trademarks mentioned  . Third party trademarks mentioned  
are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not  are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not  imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (111OR)  imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (111OR)  
  2020 Cisco and or its affiliates. All rights reserved. This document is a Cisco    2020 Cisco and or its affiliates. All rights reserved. This document is a Cisco  Public Information.   Public Information.   Version 1.5, September 2021 Version 1.5, September 2021 