A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE 
Samsung Electronics          Sustainability Report 2019 
   Samsung Electronics Website : http:  www.samsung.com    Sustainability Website : https:  www.samsung.com us aboutsamsung sustainability strategy     IR Website : https:  www.samsung.com global ir     Samsung Electronics Newsroom :  http:  news.samsung.com kr              http:  news.samsung.com global    This report was prepared by :  Corporate Sustainability Management Office, Global Public Affairs,   Samsung Electronics              Address : 129, Samsung-ro, Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do, 16677, South Korea             E-mail : csr.partner samsung.com 
A FIFTY YEAR   JOURNEY TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE 
At Samsung Electronics, we publish an annual sustainability report with the aim of transpar- 
ently communicating about our achievements in creating economic, social and environmen- 
tal value to a wide range of stakeholders. 2019 marks our twelfth annual sustainability report. 
This report illustrates our economic, social and environmental activities and achievements  
between January 1st and December 31st 2018. For some of the qualitative achievements, data  
to May 2019 is included. For the quantitative achievements, this report provides numerical  
data for the past three years, to allow for trend analysis over time. 
This report covers all of our Korean and global supply chains and worksites. Financial perfor- 
mance data is based upon consolidated K-IFRS accounts. Quantitative environmental perfor- 
mance of worksites is based upon data collected from 37 Korean and global production sub- 
sidiaries. 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards : Core option. 
FOR FURTHER DETAILS ON THIS REPORT 
  About This Report 
  Reporting Period 
  Reporting Scope 
  Reporting Standards 
Table of contents 
INTRODUCTION CEO Message 
SUSTAINABILITY   PILLARS 
Six focus areas   of sustainability 
SUSTAINABILITY  FOUNDATION 
The core of our corporate  sustainability management 
50 years, 50 Sustainability Facts 006 
Product Stewardship 
Commitment to the Environment in Our Operation 
Enabling People 
Technology for Good 
Investing in Our Employees 
Sustainable Supply Chain 
Materiality Assessment 
Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 
Sustainability Management and Value Creation 
Our Alignment with the UN SDGs 
Corporate Governance 
Risk Management 
Responsible Business Practices 
Performance Summary 
Independent Assurance Report 
Verification statement on Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
TCFD Index 
Management Philosophy 
Samsung Electronics in the World 
In the coming years, we are well aware that we will not be eval- uated solely based on our business performance. As such, and  in addition to our efforts to pursue profits and increase share- holder value, which are fundamental purposes of businesses,  we will endeavor to fulfill our social responsibilities as a global  company.  
Our environmental activities have included countermeasures  against climate change including reducing our greenhouse   gas emissions and expanding the use of renewable energy  and active participation in the recycling of resources to   minimize the environmental footprint of our operation. The  impetus for the company s environmental activities is shifting   from selective spending to essential investments that create   value, and we will continue to engage in environmental   activities, believing economic development and environmental   sustainability can coexist.   
Furthermore, we aim to take safety at our worksites and   suppliers to the world s highest levels by internalizing a com- mitment to environment, health, and safety (EHS) management  
CEO Message 
I would like to begin by expressing my sincere appreciation  to our shareholders, customers, suppliers, communities, and  employees around the globe for your continuous support of  Samsung Electronics. 
This year marks our 50th anniversary. Founded as a small man- ufacturer of black-and-white TVs, Samsung Electronics has  grown to become a major global IT company in 50 years. We  delivered record-high earnings last year despite an unfavorable  business environment, and have been ceaselessly working to  lay the foundation to take us through the next 50 years. 
We designed our Sustainability Report 2019 to both look back  on our activities over the past 50 years as well as offer a guide  on our direction for the next 50 years. 
002 Overview Highlight Sustainability Foundation Appendix Sustainability Pillars 
 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.       Vice Chairman and CEO    Kim, Ki Nam 
in our business strategy. With safety as a top priority, we have  engaged in numerous improvement activities such as  EHS  Innovation Day , an event held to spread a culture of safety,  and EHS consulting for our suppliers. Through our efforts, we  will establish a  safety first  culture in which even minor safety  issues are not overlooked, aiming to create an accident-free  working environment.  
Finally, aligning with our pursuit of co-prosperity with our   communities, we have continued providing Win-Win funds  for our suppliers, support for non-profit organizations, and  smart-factory projects for small and medium-sized enterprises.  In addition, we have launched a new corporate citizenship   initiative with a vision to focus on the education of future   generations, carrying out myriad social contribution programs  around the globe. We have made the pursuit of co-prosperity   one of our core values, and will thus keep working with  local communities, our country, and humanity to benefit all   stakeholders. 
At Samsung Electronics, we follow a simple business philosophy   We will devote our human resources and technology to create  superior products and services, thereby contributing to a better  global society. Leveraging our technology and business knowl- edge, we will proactively address social and environmental  issues and strive to become a company that can flourish along- side our communities for more than 100 years. 
We look forward to your continued interest and support in our  100-year journey to create a prosperous, sustainable society.  
Thank you.   
Management Philosophy 
At Samsung Electronics, we will devote our human resources and technology to create superior products and services, thereby contrib- uting to a better global society. This commitment is guided by our set of values that consist of  Management Philosophy, Core Values,  and Business Principles . To this end, we translated our five management principles into detailed action plan guidelines to establish the  Samsung Electronics Global Code of Conduct that all of our employees are guided by. To drive our sustainable growth and define our  way forward, we are guided by the following core values, which are instrumental to the way our employees conduct business. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 003 
Philosophy We will devote our human resources and technology to create superior products and services,   thereby contributing to a better global society. 
Core  Values 
Business  Principles 
PEOPLE EXCELLENCE CHANGE INTEGRITY 
We value our people  with a strong belief  in  A company is its  people  philosophy  and providing oppor-  tunities to perform  their full potential. 
1. We comply with laws and ethical standards. 2. We maintain a clean organizational culture with high integrity. 3. We respect customers, shareholders and employees. 4. We care for the environment, health and safety of all. 5. We are a socially responsible corporate citizen. 
We give our best  efforts with endless  passion and a  challenge spirit to  become world best   in every ways. 
We rapidly take the initiative in  executing change   and innovation with  risk awareness : we  cannot survive if we  do not constantly  strive to innovate. 
We act in a right and  ethical way in all  manners, ensuring  fairness with honor  and grace. 
CO-PROSPERITY 
We take full respon-  sibilities as a good  corporate citizen in  pursuit of mutual  prosperity with our  community, nation  and human society. 
At the end of 2018, we had 216 worldwide operating hubs,  including our HQ in Suwon South Korea, manufacturing subsid- iaries, sales subsidiaries, design centers and R D Centers, while  operating 15 Regional Offices in South Korea, North America,  Europe, Southeast Asia, Africa and other regions of the world. 
Samsung Electronics   in the World 
Regional Offices 
Sales Offices 
Production Sites 
R D Centers 
Design Centers 
   Regional classification is based on Samsung Electronics  internal  management criteria   Others : Sales Branches, Service Centers, Distribution Bases, etc. 
004 Overview Highlight Sustainability Foundation Appendix Sustainability Pillars 
19 KRW trillion 
Suppliers (First tier) 
R D Expenditure 
North America 
Regional Offices              2 Sales Offices                      2 Production Sites              3 R D Centers                      5 Design Centers                  1  Others                                   9 
Latin America 
Regional Offices               1 Sales Offices                      7 Production Sites              3 R D Centers                       1 Design Centers                  1  Others                                 10 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 005 
Regional Offices               1 Sales Offices                      2 Production Sites               1 Others                                   6 
Regional Offices              2 Sales Offices                    16 Production Sites              3 R D Centers                      3 Design Centers                  1  Others                                 13 
Middle East 
Regional Offices               1 Sales Offices                      7 Production Sites               1 R D Centers                      4 Others                                  11 
Southwest Asia 
Regional Offices               1 Sales Offices                       1 Production Sites              2 R D Centers                      4 Design Centers                  1  Others                                   4 
Regional Offices              2 Sales Offices                      4 Production Sites            10 R D Centers                      8 Design Centers                  1 Others                                   4 
Southeast Asia 
Regional Offices              2 Sales Offices                      8 Production Sites               7 R D Centers                      4 Others                                   7 
Regional Offices               1 Sales Offices                      3 Production Sites               1 R D Centers                      2 Others                                   3 
Regional Offices               1 Sales Offices                       1 Production Sites              6 R D Centers                      4 Design Centers                  1 
Regional Offices               1 Sales Offices                       1 R D Centers                      2 Design Centers                  1 Others                                    1 
50 YEARS 50 Sustainability  Facts 
Samsung Electronics has grown to a global IT brand   
through the spirit of challenge and culture of innovation. 
We have focused on sustainability throughout   
our journey and wanted to highlight 50 key   
sustainability achievements for our stakeholders. 
Overview Highlight Sustainability Foundation Appendix Sustainability Pillars 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 
Product Stewardship We are working to improve the energy efficiency of our products  and focus on the environmental impact of our products.  In addi- tion, we are committed to the circular economy, including by recy- 
cling and reusing resources.  
 Commitment to the Environment in Our Operation We will continue our efforts to expand the use of renewable  energy and reduce emissions to minimize the environmental  impact of our operation. 
Enabling People Through innovation and technology, we are providing greater  access to opportunities and improving the accessibility of the  underprivileged. In addition, we are helping local communities  
through STEM education.   
Technology for Good We encourage employees to contribute to their communities by  solving social problems through creative solutions.  Moreover, when  we develop innovative products and services, we strive to protect  
consumer s personal information and privacy.  
Investing in Our Employees We support global efforts to prevent child labor and forced labor and  adhere to strict policies to advance these global efforts.  We also pro- vide an inclusive, safe and cooperative organizational culture for our  
employees.  
Sustainable Supply Chain We pursue sustainable growth with our supply chain by effective  management and through tools that enhance the competitive- 
ness of our suppliers.  
Sustainability Foundation We continue to strengthen our systematic sustainability manage- ment and work with local communities as well as stakeholders  throughout the world to help do our part in advancing society. 
50  Sustainability  Facts  
1- Product Stewardship 
Overview Highlight Sustainability Foundation Appendix Sustainability Pillars 
50 years, 50 Sustainability Facts 1 
Established e-waste   take-back and recycling   centers in Korea in 1998 
We have taken various actions  to collect e-waste across our  global operation since we  established e-waste take-back  and recycling centers in Korea  in 1998.  
Established an environmental   analysis lab in 2005 
We set up an environmental analysis lab, in order to check  whether hazardous substances are included in our components  and finished products across our entire manufacturing process.  
2009-2018   Collected e-waste  (cumulative) 
3.55 Million tons 
Green Memory delivers high speed, low power and high  reliability in products. If all the servers in the World used  our 5G Green Memory Solutions as of 2014, the overall  annual effect would be power savings of around 45 TWh.  The environmental impact would be equivalent to plant- ing an additional 800 million 10-year-old trees. 
Introduced an Eco-Design   process in 2004 
We have built sustainability into our product design pro- cess. Through eco-design process, we assess our products   energy efficiency, resource efficiency and environmental   hazardousness. 
Initiated the Green Memory   project in 2009 
Energy   Efficiency Resource  Efficiency Environmental  Hazardousness 
02. Evaluation and Improvement 
 DDR4 45 TWh saving 
03. Verification 
01. Target 
Planting  800 Million Trees 
Product   Stewardship 
50 years, 50 Sustainability Facts 1 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 
We have received the US EPA s ENERGY STAR Partner of the  Year Award six times, including Sustained Excellence Award  in 2019, due to our commitment to expand our lineup of  energy-efficient products(washing machines, refrigera- tors). As of 2018, 706 of our product models are ENERGY  STAR certified. 
Won US EPA ENERGY STAR Partner   of the Year- Sustained Excellence Award   six times 
The industry s first cadmium-free TV  in 2015 
We produced Quantum Dot TV,  the industry s  first cadmium-free TV. We received a 2016  SMM award from the US EPA. 
   Upcycling speaker for used galaxy smartphone 
Galaxy Upcycling as a innovative   repurposing of e-waste in 2017 
Galaxy Upcycling program is a pilot project which would  upcycle old Galaxy smart phones for use as IoT solutions. We  were received Cutting Edge Award in a 2017 SMM(Sustainable  Materials Management) Champion Award by the US EPA(En- vironmental Protection Agency) for the Galaxy Upcycling pro- gram. 
           009 008 
2-  Commitment to the Environment   in Our Operation 
Overview Highlight Sustainability Foundation Appendix Sustainability Pillars 
50 years, 50 Sustainability Facts 2 
Expansion of green management activities since 1992 
Established our policies for biodiversity conservation   in 2010  and conducted endangered species   protection activities  
We have enacted ecosystem protection activities and campaigns  to protect endangered species at each worksite in Korea since the  establishment of our policy for biodiversity conservation in 2010.  
We have been committed to sustainability with a vision starting in 1992 with  our  Environmental Declaration . Since then we have been pursuing our  "Green Management" goals, as outlined in 1996, 2009 and 2014. 
Reduced GHG emissions by 59% from 2008 to 2013    and participated in a GHG emission trading scheme in Korea 
In 2013, our GHG emission intensity decreased by 59% from 2008 levels,   and we have continued to take actions to further reduce emissions, including   the introduction of high energy-efficient facilities and process gas treatment   facilities.  
   Fugitive emissions process facility   in semiconductor worksites 
   Media art show with endangered animals  through "The Frame TV  at the National  Geographic Photo Art Exhibition 
2008 2013 CO2e 
Annual participation in the UN   World Water Day and water resources  protection activities, since 1997 
Every year, each worksite engages in activ- ities alongside local communities to con- serve nearby aquatic ecosystems. Our  worksites in Korea, in cooperation with  local universities, have analyzed and  improved the water quality and ecosys- tems of nearby streams. 
   A pond with purified water  from wastewater treatment  facilities 
Commitment to  the Environment   in Our Operation 
50 years, 50 Sustainability Facts 2 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 
Energy Management   System(ISO 50001) certified at Korean  worksites in 2011 
The world s first CDM(Clean Development Mechanism)   Project in home appliance approved by the United Nations   in 2013 
Obtained the ISO 50001 Energy Management  System certification for our Korean worksites in  2011 the first in the country and for all our  global worksites in 2013. 
We engage in various activities to analyze and reduce our impact on climate  change, such as our home appliance CDM project in India in 2013, an indus- try-university joint research project on adaptations to climate change in  2015, and a cookstove CDM project in Kenya in 2017.  
   Providing bioethanol cook   stoves in Kenya in 2017 
   Approval for UN CDM  Project based on high- energy efficiency  refrigerators in 2013 
By 2020, we plan to source renewable energy  for 100% of the energy used for all of its fac- tories, office buildings, and operational facili- ties in the US, Europe and China. We are also  installing solar and geothermal power genera- tion facilities at our Korean worksites.  
Announced a plan in 2018 to   transition to renewable energy at our  operation 
Certification history in global worksites 
34 manufacturing worksites  received certifications 
Within two years of ISO s interna- tional standards initiation, we adopted  energy management systems meet- ing international standards for all our  global manufacturing worksites 
Number of worksites:   34 
   Installation of solar panels at the   rooftops of parking areas in Suwon 
           011 010 
3- Enabling People 
Overview Highlight Sustainability Foundation Appendix Sustainability Pillars 
50 years, 50 Sustainability Facts 3 
Created an organization dedicated to  corporate citizenship projects in 1995 
Sponsorship for technicians since 2007 
We have sponsored national tech contents and World Skill Olympics  for technicians. We have supported 43 national representatives and 26  medalists among our employees for World Skill Olympics. In addition, we  sponsor national representatives from Russia and Vietnam. Since 2007,  around 490 Korean technicians have been hired at Samsung Electronics. 
Launched Samsung Dream Class in 2012 
We run Samsung Dream Class, a program designed  to offer education opportunities to middle school stu- dents in regions where educational support is needed  in Korea. As of 2018, around 73,000 middle school  students have benefited from the program, with  20,000 college students participating as mentors. 
We perform a variety of global citizenship  projects across the globe in support of the  sustainable development of society. Our  cumulative contribution to such projects over  the past decade amounts to around KRW 3.75  trillion. 
48 countries 1,200 schools 2.7M students 
Launched Samsung Smart School in 2012 
We have run Samsung Smart School programs  as part of our corporate citizenship projects since  2012. As of 2018, more than 2.7 million students  from around 1,200 schools in 48 countries have  benefited from the programs.  
3    7,500    KRW 3.75 Trillion 
73,000   middle school students 
20,000  university students   as instructors 
Commenced measuring the social   and environmental value of our   operation in 2015 
Looking beyond economic value, we started mea- suring the social and environmental value of our  operation in 2015. For 2018, our social and envi- ronmental values amounted to nearly KRW 54.5  trillion1).   
Footnote: 1) Refer to page 105 
Developed a mobile, eye-diagnostic   device in 2018 
We developed a mobile, eye-diagnostic device  via Samsung Tomorrow Solutions - a program  which helps address social issues through cre- ative ideas. We have provided the devices to 40  community health centers in Vietnam, benefiting  about 28,000 patients.  
Unveiled a new corporate citizenship  vision of  Enabling People  in 2019 
We launched a new corporate citizenship initia- tive with a vision of  Enabling People  by focusing  on the education of future generations. 
Enabling  People 
4- Technology for Good 
50 years, 50 Sustainability Facts 4 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 
MOSAIC, a collective intelligence platform for our employ- ees, has collected around 123,000 ideas in total as of the  end of 2018, with an average of 95,000 employees access- ing the platform on a daily basis. Through MOSAIC, our  employees can discuss issues and share ideas, creating an  innovative corporate culture.   
Launched Samsung MOSAIC,   a collective intelligence platform, in 2014 
Established the Global Privacy Office in 2015 
In line with laws and regulations, we developed global policies to pro- tect privacy and personal data in 2013 and established the Global Pri- vacy Office in 2015. We ensure that personal data is protected over a  product s life cycle, while providing mandatory personal data protection  training for all employees.  
Developed accessibility design   principles in 2015 
Based on our accessibility design princi- ples, we strive to ensure that all consum- ers can conveniently use our products  regardless of their physical condition.  
Established the Creativity   Innovation Center   and C-Lab program in 2012 
To promote a creative corporate culture, we have run the C-Lab program  since the establishment of the Creativity   Innovation Center in 2012. As  of the end of 2018, a total of 918 employees have performed 229 projects,  resulting in 36 spin-off start-ups. We started supporting external start- ups since 2014 and created C-Lab Outside to extend our support to start- ups outside of our company in October 2018. Together with these start- ups, we have been advancing technology in society.    
Unveiled our AI ethics in 2019 
During CES 2019, we unveiled our ethical prin- ciples on the development and utilization of AI  products. We will strive to ensure AI technology  can be utilized in an ethical manner by offering  guidelines and training sessions to our employees.  
Technology   for good 
           013 012 
5- Investing in Our Employees 
Overview Highlight Sustainability Foundation Appendix Sustainability Pillars 
50 years, 50 Sustainability Facts 5 
Our career consulting center helps employ- ees prepare for their future after retirement,  while also offering our retirees opportu- nities to start anew. As of the end of 2018,  we have helped 6,187 people (out of 7,100  applicants) find new jobs.  
Established a career consulting   center in 2001 
Introduced a regional specialist program in 1990 
The regional specialist program, which epitomizes our commit- ment to pioneer global markets and nurture talent, allows selected  employees to provide training overseas while also learning  local  languages and culture for one to two years. 
Regional specialist program performance 84 countries     
total 3,468 regional specialist 
 As of December 2018 
Introduced flextime in 2009 
In 2009, we introduced a flexible working-hours system  that allows our employees to manage their starting time.  From 2015 onwards, employees have been able to choose  not only their work starting time but also ending time.  This helps employees to have a better balance between  work and personal life.  
Introduced a   performance-based salary   system in 1998 
We shifted from a seniority-based to  a performance-based salary system  in 1998. Depending upon business  performance, we have paid up to  50% of an employee s annual salary  as an incentive since the introduc- tion of a profit-sharing scheme in  2000. In addition, we have strength- ened individual performance-based  compensation with the adoption of  a  plus-sum  system in 2010.   
Investing in   Our Employees 
50 years, 50 Sustainability Facts 5 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 
Established the Samsung Health  Research Institute in 2010 
We operate the Samsung Health Research  Institute to carry out research on the work  environment and new manufacturing pro- cesses and materials to ensure the health of  our employees. 
Developed Human Rights Policy 
Since the 2014 introduction of a child labor  prohibition policy in our Chinese opera- tion, we have adopted various other poli- cies to safeguard human rights and manage  employee health and safety. These include  guidelines for migrant workers and appren- ticeship training.  
Transparency about restricted   substances in manufacturing process 
To achieve a major milestone in health and  safety management transparency, we vol- untarily disclosed a Restricted Substances  List (RSL) of 11 hazardous substances in 2018.  We updated that list by adding 14 more sub- stances and including chemical substances  that we prohibit or restrict in our suppliers   manufacturing process in 2019. 
Introduced the Samsung Culture Index (SCI) 
We conduct a global survey of our employees annually to promote a bet- ter understanding of diverse cultures and build a creative organizational  culture. The survey assesses job satisfaction, creativity, and team trust. In  2018, around 280,000 employees participated in the survey, and the SCI hit  a record high.  
Conducted a human rights  impact assessment in 2018 
We have engaged in numerous activ- ities to enhance our compliance  management using means such  as inspections, consultations, and  third-party audits of our overseas  subsidiaries  work environments. In  particular, we carried out a human  rights impact assessment (HRIA) of  our Vietnamese operation (Samsung  Electronics Vietnam, SEV) in 2018.  
Employee satisfaction increasing   every year since the survey s   implementation 
Global SCI   satisfaction level   (score) 
Global SCI  participation rate  (%) 2012 
Vietnamese operation  (SEV) 
2013 2014 2015 2017 2016 2018 
88.4 92.3 92.0 
96.4 95.0 93.1 
           015 014 
6- Sustainable Supply Chain 
Overview Highlight Sustainability Foundation Appendix Sustainability Pillars 
50 years, 50 Sustainability Facts 6 1 6 2 
In 2018, as part of the financial assistance we provide to suppliers, we  expanded the Win-Win funds to KRW 1.4 trillion by including our third-tier  suppliers. Furthermore, we created a KRW 500 billion fund to improve pay- ment conditions between first- and second-tier suppliers in 2017, and an  additional KRW 300 billion fund helping to improve payments between sec- ond- and third-tier suppliers in 2018.  
Announced KRW 1 trillion to support suppliers   in Korea in 2004 
We announced a plan to support and nurture our suppliers and created an  organization dedicated to carrying out this plan. Thereafter, we provided our  suppliers with financial assistance and on-site guidance, as well as support  for technological development and human resources training for five years,  thus enhancing their competitiveness.  
We use an open sourcing program to identify potential partners with a new  technology or an innovative ideas. Through this, we receive around 600   suggestions every year. 
Created Win-Win funds for first- and second-tier   suppliers in Korea in 2010 
Introduced an open sourcing program in 2011 
1st and   2nd tier   suppliers 
3rd tier  suppliers 
Open sourcing 
600suggestions year 
Win-Win funds 
Payment   Support funds 
KRW   Trillion 
KRW   Trillion 
Developed the Samsung Electronics  Supplier Code of Conduct in 2012 
To ensure the responsible management of  our supply chain, we developed the Samsung  Electronics Supplier Code of Conduct and  operate an organization responsible for man- aging our suppliers  work environments via  on-site inspections and third-party audits. 
Established a management system   to ban the use of conflict minerals in  the supply chain in 2012 
We have a management system that pre- vents the use of conflict minerals in our  supply chain and that is designed to min- imize the risk of mining conflict miner- als, including human rights violations and  environmental damage. As of 2018, all of  our suppliers only do business with RMAP  (Responsible Minerals Assurance Process)  -certified smelters for the four major conflict   minerals-i.e., tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold.   
Ta  Tantalum 
RMAP  Certification 
W  Tungsten 
Sustainable  Supply Chain 
50 years, 50 Sustainability Facts 6 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 
Opened and transferred patents in 2015 
Since 2015, we have opened 27,000 patents to strengthen tech- nological competitiveness of SMEs. Furthermore, we held a Biz  technology fair, offering consulting on the transfer of around  12,000 patents related to semiconductors, mobile devices, and  home appliances.  
Created a Partner Collaboration  Academy in 2013 
The  Partner  Collaboration  Acad- emy aims to support supplier human  resource training. As of the end of  2018, we have offered training ses- sions to 540 suppliers, with 80,677  trainees completing the sessions.  
80,677people  
Supplier   training program 
Initiated a smart factory support   project in 2015 
We carried out a first-round of a smart factory  support project for 1,086 small and medium-sized  enterprises(SMEs) over 2015 2017 to prepare  for the Fourth Industrial Revolution. In 2018, we  kicked off a second-round of the project to sup- port 2,500 companies over the next five years. 
Participated in a responsible mineral mining  project in DR Congo in 2019 
We have participated in a social contribution project to  address cobalt mining issues in DR Congo by providing  personal protective equipment and training programs  to miners. 
SMEs support 
As of 2017   (cumulative) 
1,086  companies 
           017 016 
7- Sustainability Foundation 
Overview Highlight Sustainability Foundation Appendix Sustainability Pillars 
50 years, 50 Sustainability Facts 7 
Released  Declaration of Customer Rights   in 1994 
The  Declaration of Customer Rights  served as a  turning point in the protection of consumer rights.  Our consumer policies have focused on guarantee- ing product quality, service, and safety.  
Set up the CSR (Corporate Social   Responsibility) Committee under the   Board of Directors  (BOD) in 2013 
We created the CSR Committee under the BOD  to fulfill our social responsibilities. In 2017, we  expanded the role of the CSR Committee to include  shareholder value enhancement, thus creating the  Governance Committee.  
Declaration  of Customer  Rights 
CSR   Committee 
Enhance  shareholder s  value 
Quality Service Safety 
Governance  Committee 
Enacted Samsung Electronics Global Code of Conduct in 2005 
We have enacted Samsung Electronics Global Code of Conduct for all our  employees to observe, as global corporate citizens. This  Global Code of  Conduct  is the guiding standard for everyone in Samsung Electronics,  outlining standards of conduct in all business activities.  
Established Corporate Compliance Team  in 2010 
Since the establishment of the Compliance team,  the Company enhanced employees  understand- ing of compliance by offering regular compliance  training sessions. In addition, we are manag- ing our compliance system effectively by offer- ing preventive measures, close monitoring, and  post-management.  
Established principles for  disclosure on financial   donations in 2017 
To enhance transparency regard- ing financial donations, the Com- pany decided to get BoD reso- lution for all financial donations    contributions KRW 1 billion or   higher. Related information is also  disclosed. 
Separated the roles   of CEO and Chairman of   the BOD in 2018 
We separated the roles of CEO  and Chairman of the BOD to bol- ster management transparency  and the independence of the  BOD. 
Sustainability  Foundation 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 
We will proactively address social and environmental issues to flourish  
alongside our communities over the next 50 years.  In partnership with  
society, we have made progress in our journey over the past 50 years and  
we will continue this journey into the next 50 years and beyond. 
Commitment to   the Environment   in Our Operation 
Enabling People 
Product Stewardship 
50   SUSTAINABILITY FACTS 
Technology for Good 
Sustainability Foundation 
Investing in Our Employees 
Sustainable Supply Chain 
Sustainability  Pillars 
         Technology for Good 
    Investing in Our Employees 
         Sustainable Supply Chain 
                           Product Stewardship 
  Commitment to the Environment in Our Operation 
                 Enabling People 
220,000 tons 
Environmentally conscious  Products1) as a Percentage of Total  Cumulative Greenhouse   Gases Emissions Reduction   in the Product Use Phase2) 
Environmentally  conscious  Products 
Cumulative Use of Recycled Plastics3) 
2018 HIGHLIGHTS 
Footnote: 1) Based on development projects 2), 3) Accumulated from 2009  
243.1  million tons 
We strive to enhance product stewardship to minimize our environmental impact throughout the product life cycle from raw  
materials sourcing, product design, manufacturing to use and disposal. In the product development phase, we make efforts to reduce  
environmentally hazardous factors as well as to improve product energy efficiency and durability. We are fulfilling our environmental  
responsibilities by seeking to minimize water consumption, and to reuse waste materials in the manufacturing processes. In the  
product disposal phase, we operate e-waste take-back programs. 
ALIGNMENT WITH SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 
[Goal 12] Ensure sustainable  consumption and production  patterns 
12.2  By 2030, achieve the sus- tainable management and effi- cient use of natural resources 
12.5  By 2030, substantially  reduce waste generation  through prevention, reduction,  recycling and reuse 
13.3  Improve education, aware- ness-raising and human and  institutional capacity on climate  change mitigation, adapta- tion, impact reduction and early  warning 
[Goal 13] Take urgent action to  combat climate change and its  impacts 
[Goal 15] Protect, restore and  promote sustainable use  of terrestrial ecosystems,  sustainably manage forests,  combat desertification,  and halt and reverse land  degradation and halt  biodiversity loss 
15.2  By 2020, promote the  implementation of sustainable  management of all types of for- ests, halt deforestation, restore  degraded forests and substan- tially increase afforestation and  reforestation globally 
15.4  By 2030, ensure the conser- vation of mountain ecosystems,  including their biodiversity, in  order to enhance their capacity   to provide benefits that are  essential for sustainable devel- opment 
Innovative  Environmentally  conscious   Product :   Galaxy S10 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
024 Sustainability Pillars 
Product Stewardship 
In particular, the use of bio-based plastic  in the Galaxy S10 represents our active  commitment to incorporate bio-based  materials in our production. Bio-based  plastics, which are derived from renew- able biomass sources, such as vegetable  oils and corn starch, are one of the main  factors that enhance the environmental  consciousness of our products.  
We have made comprehensive efforts to  offer customers with a variety of environ- mentally conscious products. In particular,  we consider the use of environmentally  conscious materials in the product design  stage, and strive to enhance energy   efficiency. 
Newly launched in 2019, the Galaxy S10  entails several key eco-conscious fea- tures, including the use of bio-based  recycled plastics and high charging   efficiency. 
The Galaxy S10 s earjack housing and   Galaxy S10e s front deco part contain bio- based plastics (29% for the S10 and 37%  for the S10e).  
We also make our best effort to utilize  recycled plastics and paper. The Galaxy  S10 charger is made of 20% recycled plas- tic, while its unit box is made of 70% recy- cled paper. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 025 
Beyond Our  Products:  Environmentally  Conscious   Packaging 
Major Changes in Environmentally Conscious Packaging 
Target by Year 
Footnote: 1) PolyStyrene 2) PolyEthylene Terephthalate 3) Low Density PolyEthylene 
Footnote: 1)   For the other products, environmentally conscious packaging will be applied only to products launched in Korea 
2019     2020 2020   
Shift to paper or environmentally  conscious packaging for mobile phone,  tablet and wearables1) 
Mobile Phone, Tablet,  Wearable 
Refrigerator,  Washing Machine,  Air Conditioner 
Vacuum, Oven 
All products  
Holder tray 
Accessory packaging  
Bags (to protect product) 
Bags (to protect product)    
Bags (to protect product) 
Papers in packaging  
We strive to focus on environmentally  conscious packaging in addition to our  efforts to expand environmentally con- scious products.  
We have been developing recycled paper  for our packaging materials, printing  with soybeans ink, and plastic bags with  natural stone powder. We started to use  pulp molds packing materials for lap- tops in 2018, and we have been gradually  replacing vinyl packaging with recycled  and bio-based materials for all house- hold appliances since 2019. We are also  replacing plastic containers that used to  hold our mobile products with pulp mold  and paper, while vinyl that was wrapped  around earphones and cables will also be  changed to paper or other environmen- tally conscious materials.  
Use 100% paper packaging  materials sustainably sourced  paper 
Paper box with sleeve  
In the future, we will expand the use   of environmentally conscious materials,  while minimizing the packaging of all our  mobile products, including the Galaxy  Fold and Smartwatches, in addition to  the Galaxy S10.  
Regarding paper, we will only use sus- tainably sourced paper for all packaging  and product manuals by 2020 in order to  reduce the environmental footprint. 
We have established progressive goals to  apply environmentally conscious mate- rials to our product packing and aim to  achieve the 100% use of sustainably  sourced paper for packaging by 2020.  
Shift to paper or environmentally  conscious packaging for products and  accessories globally 
Recycled or bio-based plastic    
Pulp mold, Paper 
Paper, Bio-based plastic  
Optimized structure by removing- sleeve (surface of packing box) 
Bio-based plastic 
Bio-based plastic 
100% sustainably sourced paper 
Samsung Electronics officially announced the Environmen- tal Declaration in 1992. In addition, we set Green Management  Value System in 2008 and additional goals in the form of our  global Eco-Management 2020 plan in 2014 and are endeavor- ing to create environmental value through numerous initiatives. 
Green Management 
Green Management Value System Product Stewardship KPIs 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
  Provide Green Experience, Creating Sustainable Future    Provide customers with new eco-friendly experiences and  lead the way to a sustainable future for the global   community through innovative and eco-conscious products  and technologies 
We contribute to the prosperity of human life and   the conservation of the environment by conducting business  activities that respect humanity and nature 
Samsung Electronics PlanetFirst Logo:   The circular logo logo shape represents  planet earth, while the colors blue and  green symbolize permanent fertile soil  and water, respectively. 
PHILOSOPHY 
026 Sustainability Pillars 
Product Stewardship 
We strive to minimize the negative impact on the environment  by producing products with less resources and reducing green- house gas emissions during use. 
Footnotes: 1)  Certified sustainable sourced paper and recycled paper (packaging,  manuals, etc.) 
Accumulated GHG emissions   reduction in the product use phase  between 2009 and 2020 
Use renewable materials including   recycled plastic between 2009 and 2030 
Reach 250 million tons 
Reach 500 thousand tons 
Reach 90%   
Eco-conscious Products out of all  developed products by 2020 
Accumulate collected e-waste   between 2009 and 2030 
Reach 7.5 million tons 
Reach 100%   
sustainable sourced paper   packaging by 2020   
Enviromental Focus in Our Products 
Product Stewardship Strategy 
From the product design stage, we apply our internal eco-de- sign process, which incorporates environmental attributes of  products into product development. Since 2014, we have incor- porated global eco-labeling requirements in the eco-design  
Eco-design Process 
Enviromentally Conscious Products 
We have set up a comprehensive development process to cre- ate products with high resource efficiency. In addition, our  chemical substance management system identifies materials in  our components during our purchasing stage.  
Eco-Design 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 027 
 Development    Develope products that consume less energy and resources    Design the product with repair, disassembly and recycling  in mind    Source environmentally conscious raw materials that are  easy to recycle and have low toxicity     Transact with suppliers certified as  Eco Partners     Expand the use of recycled materials    Design for product life expansion 
 Manufacturing    Monitor and reduce energy consumption in the worksites     Minimize water consumption and maximize water reuse    Recycle worksite waste as resources    Find alternatives for chemicals in the worksite 
 Distribution    Use environmentally conscious packaging materials    Reduce the use of packaging materials    Reduce the amount of fuel used for transport and the  amount of GHG emissions by optimizing logistics 
Eco-Design  Steps 01. Goal Setting 03. Final Verification 02. Evaluation and Improvement 
Evaluation  Criteria 
Resource Efficiency Environmental  Hazardousness Energy Efficiency 
Samsung   Electronics 
Recycling   Company 
Our programs also include waste recycling in the production  phase, firmware upgrade services to extend product life, and  recycling programs across the globe. 
process, securing the objectivity of the process. The eco-design  process begins with the environmental goal settings for each  development project, which is followed by evaluation improve- ment, and ends with final verification. 
 Use    Use energy efficient products to reduce indirect GHG  emissions    Upgrade product performance and firmware as well as  provide product warranty 
 Take-back   Recycling    Operate national e-waste recycling program    Separate and reuse waste by waste material type     Establish Closed-Loop recycling system for waste   resource 
 Repair   Reuse    Expand service centers worldwide    Extend product lifespan by providing remote diagnosis  and expert diagnosis services 
Footnote: 1)  Global warming, acidification, eutrophication, ozone layer depletion,  formation of photochemical oxidants, human toxicity, freshwater  toxicity, seawater toxicity, soil toxicity, primary energy consumption,  water use, and waste generation 
Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) We have been looking for ways to efficiently use our resources  and reuse waste in product development and production. We  perform Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to identify the poten- tial environmental impact of our prod ucts throughout their life  cycle in order to detect their potential environmental footprints.  For example, in 2018, we conducted LCAs on the Galaxy A6 and  a large-sized flat panel product looking at each phase of the  product life cycle. We have been using the outcomes to develop  products that have a lesser impact on the environment. By way  of example to show how we conduct LCAs, the following is the  global warming impact based on 12 categories of our model  QMF55N (a large-size flat panel display) in the pre-manufac- turing, manufacturing, distribution, use and disposal phases.  We are committed to utilizing these data to select raw materi- als with low environmental impact and  improve the energy effi- ciency of the products. 
Product Energy Efficiency We hold Eco-Council and working-level comittees where envi- ronmental experts and managers meet to share ideas about  technological and regulatory trends to help develop highly  energy efficient products. As a result, in 2018, we successfully  adopted energy-saving technologies including highly-efficient  refrigerator compressors and washing machines motors. Our  focus on energy efficiency resulted in about 39% reduction in  annual energy consumption compared to the 2008 levels.   We  define GHG emissions produced by energy consumption during  product use as  Emissions in the Product Use Phase  and man- age it as one of our major KPIs of the Eco-Management 2020. 
Footnote: 1)  Scope of data collection: 7 major product categories including  refrigerators, air conditioners, washers, televisions, monitors, laptops,  and mobile phones.  
Result of LCA (Global Warming Impact) of   Large-sized Flat Panel QM55N 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
Pre-  manufacturing 29% 
Disposal 1.2% 
Manufacturing 0.3% 
028 Sustainability Pillars 
Product Stewardship 
Distribution 0.5% 
Chemical Management We are committed to strictly managing chemicals through rigor- ous inspections and due diligence on all parts and raw materials  used in our products. We recognize that international environ- mental regulations, such as Restriction of Hazardous Substances  in Electrical and  Electronic Equipment (EU RoHS) and Regis- tration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals  (EU REACH), are being tightened. Under the circumstances, we  believe that hazardous substance management is important for  not only our operation, but also the environment of our commu- nities. Accordingly, we have operated an environmental analy- sis laboratory for analyzing 6 RoHS hazardous substances and 4  types of phthalates (DEHP, BBP, DBP, DIBP ) and established our  self-monitoring process for regulated substances. In addition,  we have established the Environment Chemical Integrated Man- agement System (e-CIMS) to strictly monitor and assess hazard- ous substances in the supply chain. Furthermore, we evaluate  suppliers' environmental quality control systems and do busi- nesses only with those that meet our requirements. 
Timeline for Hazardous Substance Management 
2005          
Footnote: 1)  BFRs: Brominated Flame Retardants 2) PVC: Polyvinyl Chloride 3) PFOS: Perfluoroctanesulfonate 4) HBCD: Hexabromocyclododecane 5)  DEHP: Bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate 6) BBP: Butyl benzyl phthalate 7) DBP: Dibutyl phthalate 8) DIBP: Diisobutyl phthalate 9) DINP: Diisononyl phthalate 
   Developed a Technical-Tree to reduce the use of BFRs      (supply chain improvement)    Banned the use of BFRs for packaging materials 
   Set plans to reduce the use of BFRs  and PVC   
   Released mobile phones free of BFRs PVC  (some models)    Banned the use of PFOS   and antimonides 
   Released new mobile phone camera MP3 models free of   BFRs PVC    Banned the use of cobalt chloride 
   Released mobile phone  free of belillum compounds 
   Banned the use of chlorinated flame retardants in mobile  phones and MP3s    Released laptops, TVs, monitors, and home theater products  (some components)  free of PVC 
   Released laptops, TVs, monitors, and home theater products  (some components) free of phthalates or antimonides 
   Banned the use of HBCD   and nonylphenol 
   Banned the use of 4 types of phthalates for new component  (DEHP  , BBP  , DBP  , DIBP  ) 
   Banned the use of 4 types of phthalates (DEHP, BBP, DBP, DIBP)  for all parts    Plan to ban additional 8 types of phthalates (DINP  , DIDP   ,  DnOP   , DnHP   , DMEP   , DIPP   , nPIPP   , DnPP   ) for all   product components by July 2019 
10) DIDP: Di-isodecyl phthalate 11) DnOP: Di-n-octyl phthalate 12) DnHP: Di-n-hexyl phthalate  13)  DMEP: Bis (2-methoxyethyl)  phthalate 14) DIPP: Di-iso-pentyl phthalate 15)  nPIPP: n-Pentyl-isopentyl  phthalate 16) DnPP: Di-n-pentyl phthalate 
Global Environmental Certification We have been developing environmentally conscious products  and obtaining environmental certifications around the globe.  Many of our products are certified by a total of 9 governments  including South Korea, the US, and Europe as well as such stan- dards organizations as UL (Underwriters Labora tory) of the US  and the Canadian Standards Association (CSA). By the end of  2018, a total of 1,253 models obtained these eco-label certifica- tions on an accumulated basis. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 029 
Environmental Certifications and Awards 
 Green Technology  Certification in Korea The number of our technologies that are certified as  Green  Technology  by Korean Ministry of Environment has been  increasing. As of the end of 2018, we have secured a total of 12  green technologies such as monitor and network equipment.  
Acquisition of Green Technology Certification in 2018 
Environmental Awards Granted in 2018 Our commitment to the product stewardship continues to be  recognized around the world as demonstrated by the following  awards. 
Environmental Awards Received in 2018 
Green Technology 
Monitor standby power reducing  technique, etc.  
User and schedule based wireless   LAN power saving automation   technologies, etc.  
Name of Award 
All-Russian eco-day    Green Spring  
SMM Electronics   Challenge Champion Award 
Energy Winner Awards   of the Year 
Green Product Awards   of the Year 
ENERGY STAR Partner   of the Year Award 
Environmental Leader Award  
No. of Certifications 
Kommersant (Russia Daily  Newspaper) 
US Environmental   Protection Agency 
Consumers Korea  
Korea Green Purchasing  Network 
US Environmental   Protection Agency 
US Environmental   Protection Agency 
Eco Achievements 
North America 
Central Latin   America 
   Achieved  Gold Tier  on e-waste collection and  recycling 
   Wind-free air conditioner 4 way cassette air  conditioning  heating 
   Galaxy Upcycling (Project section)  
Description 
   Awarded  Silver Crane  for installation operation  of eco-boxes collecting e-waste  appliances 
   Awarded Partner of the Year   (Sustained Excellence) 
   Grande dryer  
Korea China 
Cabon-Label 
Northern Europe 
Carbon Trust 
Environmental Highlights from Products in 2018 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
LED TV  (UE75NU7100) 
   EU Energy Label A  
   Energy Saving mode  
    Screwless design   (productivity , recycle availability ) 
   Accessary bag made of 20% of sugar cane 
   Preheat the air quickly by electric heater 
   Remove 99% of germs and bacteria, 100%  of dust mites 
Refrigerator   (RF22R7351SG)   
   Eco-friendly R600a refrigerant 
   ENERGY STAR Certified 
   FlexZone  Drawer 
   Twin Cooling Plus  
   Food Showcase Door with Metal Cooling  plate minimizing the loss of air 
Dryer   (DV16R8540KV)   
   Maintain optimal drying   temperature 60  to protect fabric.   
   A huge 16kg capacity for king-sized   bedding. 
Notebook 9 Always  (NT900X3N)  
    Slim   ultra-light metal (13.9mm, 799g) 
    Eco-conscious packaging material  (pulp mold package) 
   Won government innovation awards   KOREA STAR AWARDS 2018  for future  packaging  
030 Sustainability Pillars 
Product Stewardship 
Monitor  (S24E650PL) 
   Standby power below 0.005W 
   Eco Saving mode 
   30% of recycled plastic use 
   Certification of ENERGY STAR in all   capitals and EPEAT 
   Sterilize bacteria collected in filter   
   Filter Saver(double the filter life) 
 QuickDrive  Washing   Machine (WW80M645OPW)   
   Innovative QuickDrive  technology   unique fabric care drum equipped with a  pulsator 
   Washing time can be reduced by up to  50%, without compromising the cleaning  performance 
   Highest Energy-efficiency class in Europe  with   A   (-40%) 
Server DRAM  (256GB 3DS DDR4   RDIMM) 
   World s fastest DDR4 DRAM the most   energy-efficient enterprise server Module 
   30% improvement of system power   consumption efficiency (alternate  high-density 4 modules of 64GB) 
   World s first 3.2Gb s 256GB DRAM   development (1.2 times faster than 64GB)  
   System load storage 6TB solution  (256GB   24, cost effective equipment)   
   Combines 144 of world's first 10nm-class  16Gb DDR4 DRAM 
 Wind-Free Cube Air Purifier  (AX47N9980SSD)   
   Remove up to 99.999% of   0.3  sized dust   
 360 Cassette   (AC145KN4PBH5)   
   Cool from every angle 
   Innovative circular design 
   Maximize energy saving   (If absence, automatic OFF mode) 
   PM1.0 air purifying 
   Auto elevation grill 
Smartphone  (Galaxy Note9) 
   High-efficientcharger   (Charging efficiency  86%   Standby power 0.02W) 
   Ultra Power Saving mode 
   20% of recycled plastic use 
   Application of bio-based material   (use packaging materials from by-product  of sugarcane and bamboo) 
 AirDresser   (DF60N8700MG)   
   Clothing care system   with Jetsteam and Jet Air   
   Remove dust with fine dust filter   
   Remove odor causing particles with  deodorizing filter   
   Eliminate 99.9% of viruses and bacteria 
Supercomputer SSD   (3.84TB NVMe Z-SSD,  SZ1733) 
   World s first fastest response speed SSD  for super computers with extremely high  speed and minimum delay 
   5 times increase of system response speed  (for AI, big data applications) 
   Industry s largest system capacity with sole  supplying of Dual-port 3.84TB NVMe Z-SSD  (more practical with high capacity storage  than single-port 800GB Z-SSD 
   Combines 500 of the industry s fastest  48-layer 64Gb SLC Z-NAND 
Under the principles, we engage in a variety of resource   re-circulation activities, and strive to achieve the mid to long- term goals that we have set for the circular economy. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 031 
Circular Economy 
Our Circular Economy Principles 
We endeavor to move towards a circular economy in which we  create a virtuous cycle of longevity, repair, reuse and recycling.   To ensure the reuse of resources, we abide by circular economy  principles, including extension of product life span and recy- cling of products at end-of life. 
Our Circular Economy Principles 
Expanding use and purchase of recycled materials  at product design stage while minimizing use of  raw materials 
Working towards maximizing product lifespan by  designing products based on end customer needs  and rigorous quality testing  
Reducing the use of virgin natural resources and  raw materials by maximizing re-use of scrap mate- rials from manufacturing stage  
Minimizing use of raw materials and maximizing  transportation efficiency by creating compact   product designs and packaging  
Extending the product life span and increasing  customer satisfaction through a professional repair  service network 
Closed-loop Programs 
Expanding recycled  plastic use    
Mid to long-term Goals for Circular Economy 
Closed-loop System We strive toward a closed-loop system as part of our circular  economy. Through various activities seen below, we have tried  to minimize our environmental impacts across the product life- cycle and manage resources efficiently. 
Recycling key metal  resources  
Operating recycling  centers  
Extending product  lifespan 
Cumulative Use of   Recycled Plastic (from 2009) 
Cumulative take-back of  global e-waste (from 2009) 
Paper packaging only use   sustainably sourced paper 
  Definition and Related activities 
   To use recycled plastic and PCM   (Post Consumer Materials) in manufacturing  our products including mobile phone  chargers and home appliances.  
   To identify and recycle the metals crucial  in terms of supply chain stability, societal   environmental impacts 
   To operate recycling centers and collect  copper, aluminum, and plastic from used  home appliances 
   To recycle collected plastics 
   To expand our service networks globally 
   To conduct product testing  
0.5 mil. tons  
7.5 mil. tons  
Introducing a Refrigerator with Modular Design Samsung introduced BESPOKE in 2019, a refrigerator with mod- ular design, as part of our efforts towards a circular economy.  With BESPOKE, consumers can make choice of materials and  colors of the refrigerator door depending on their lifestyle and  taste. Consumers can enjoy experiencing new design by simply  replacing the door without having to dispose the existing prod- ucts, and avoid producing unnecessary waste of resources. 
Pursuing a Circular Economy Through   Reuse of Resources 
Efforts to Expand the Use of Environmentally   Conscious Materials We apply environmentally conscious materials, such as bio- based or recycled plastics to our products.  
Make Packaging More Environmentally Conscious 
As part of our circular economy, we are taking measures to  address product packaging. To cut back on the use of disposable  plastics, we will gradually shift to environmentally conscious  packaging materials, including paper, and we will only use fiber  materials certified by Sustainable Forestry Initiative, which  ensures sustainable sourcing. We are also optimizing overall  packaging structures to reduce paper usage. 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
Expanding Recycled Plastic Use 
We are focusing on expanding use of recycled plastic in a wide  range of products including refrigerators, washing machines, air  conditioners, televisions, monitors, and mobile phone chargers.  
In 2018, we used around 40 thousand tons of PCM (Post Consumer  Materials), which is recycled material from wastewater bottles and  consumer plastics. By 2030, we plan to expand the accumulated  amount of recycled plastics use to 500 thousand tons. 
Using Bio-plastics in Our Products 
We are aiming to use bio-plastics in our products. For exam- ple, on the Galaxy S10e, the front deco part is composed of 37%  bio-plastic, which is derived from castor oil. 
032 Sustainability Pillars 
Product Stewardship 
Extending Product Life Through Accessible,   Safe and Secure Repair 
We strive to improve the resource efficiency of our products by  extending their lifespan and keeping their performance in tact  through optimal technical services when the need for repair  arises. To increase product durability, we make efforts to pro- vide more accessible, safer, and specialized repair services. We  strive to expand our repair network, while making sure that our  service personnel can identify problems accurately and take  necessary actions, thus extending the lifespan of our prod- ucts. In the US, we expanded our efforts to provide high-qual- ity repair services through our partnership with  uBreakiFix  in  2018. Through more than 300  uBreakiFix  service locations, our  customers can receive Samsung Care-authorized repair service  within less than two hours. In addition, we newly opened the  Samsung Service Center in Naples, Italy, and Antwerp, Belgium,  respectively in December 2018 and January 2019.  
Expanding Take-back Recycle of Product's E-waste Samsung Re  is an initiative to collect end-of-life products from  our customers all around the world. We have installed collection  bins in our local sales points and service sites so that customers  can discard their end-of-life products without any cost.  
As of 2018, this e-waste take-back program is in place in 54  countries. In Korea, we cooperate with new product distribu- tors and logistics companies to manage the system of collecting  e-waste from customers. The collected e-waste are reused into  new products through the recycling of material. 
For mobile phone battery waste, we have developed an envi- ronmentally conscious, safe treatment to prevent fires causes  by short circuit. In addition, we have established a 4-step pro- cess (perforation, salting, drying and fragmentation) to extract  rare metals from battery wastes, thus increasing the rate of  resource recycling. In addition, we operate the Asan Recyling  Centre to collect our end-of-life products such as refrigerators,  air conditioners and other IT devices to recover materials such  as copper, aluminum, and plastics. In 2018, we collected 25,207  tons of resources, leading to the production of 2,743 tons of  recycled plastic. 
This represents our leading  resource efficiency initiative  undertaken under the slogan   Samsung recycling program,  Re  makes  PLUS  to the  environment  
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 033 
Global Take-back and Recycling Programs Status 
End-of-life Products Collection and Resources   Recovered at Asan Recycling Centre (2018) 
Waste Collection 
Collected End-of-life Products  (eg. Home Appliances and IT devices) 
Amount of Collected Resources 
Amount of Recycled Plastic Used to Samsung Electronics Products 
Recycled Plastic 2,743 tons 
-  Voluntary take-back   bins at service centers 
REPUBLIC OF   SOUTH AFRICA 
-  Take-back and recycling system   in 37 countries 
- Take-back program - Free pick-up service 
-  Take-back network   (through retail logistics centers) - Operating Asan Recycling Center - Free pick-up service 
-  Participating in take-back and   recycling consortiums 
369,000 units  
25,207 tons 
14,838 tons 
1,840 tons 
1,028 tons 
7,501 tons 
-  Participating in national   recycling system 
-  Voluntary take-back   bins at service centers 
-  Take-back and   recycling system 
Environmental Protection Award for Recycling and  Responsible Waste Disposal 
We operated a program called 'School of recycling: electronics'  in Russia, in order to advocate for waste disposal and environ- mental protection. 
Schools and local municipalities have actively engaged in the  project and over 500 tons of e-waste instead of wastes have  been collected to date through the program. 
Our efforts for environmental leadership were recognized with  the  Silver Crane  (Ecology) award by the Kommersant, a Rus- sian journal. 
-  Take-back and recycling   for TVs, PCs and printers -  Voluntary take-back   program for mobile phones 
-  Take-back programs in   all 50 states 
-  Take-back programs in   all 10 provinces 
-  Voluntary take-back   programs 
COLOMBIA  PERU  COSTA RICA  BRAZIL 
1,356GWh 3.6 tCO e KRW 100 million 
Renewable Energy  GHG emissions 
Energy Saving 
Water Use Recycling of Waste 96% 64  ton KRW 100 million 
2018 HIGHLIGHTS 
Certification of EHS  Management Systems 100% 
We have long engaged in various activities to reduce the environmental impact of our operation, including reductions in GHG and air  
pollutant emissions as well as the expansion of our renewable energy use. Furthermore, we have also been committed to undertaking  
social contribution projects related to climate change, managing the environmental impact of our suppliers, and cooperating with  
local communities to protect ecosystem near our operation. We have set the targets for key performance indicators (KPIs) in four  
areas EHS (Environment, Health, and Safety) management system, GHG emissions, water resource, and waste management. We will  
make the best efforts to achieve the targets by 2020.  
ALIGNMENT WITH SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 
6.3  By 2030, improve water  quality by reducing pollution,  eliminating dumping and  minimizing release of hazard- ous chemicals and materi- als, halving the proportion  of untreated wastewater and  substantially increasing recy- cling and safe reuse globally 
[Goal 6] Ensure availability  and sustainable  management of water and  sanitation for all 
7.2  By 2030, increase substan- tially the share of renewable  energy in the global energy mix 
7.3  By 2030, double the  global rate of improvement in  energy efficiency 
7.a  By 2030, enhance inter- national cooperation to  facilitate access to clean  energy research and tech- nology, including renewable  energy, energy efficiency and  advanced and cleaner fos- sil-fuel technology, and pro- mote investment in energy  infrastructure and clean  energy technology 
[Goal 7] Ensure access  to affordable, reliable,  sustainable and modern  energy for all 
13.1  Strengthen resilience  and adaptive capacity to  climate-related hazards  and natural disasters in all  countries 
[Goal 13] Take urgent action  to combat climate change  and its impacts 
In June 2018, we announced our plans  to source renewable energy for specific  regions. Since that announcement, we  have launched initiatives to increase our  sourcing of renewable energy, including  the installation of solar panels and geo- thermal units, the purchase of Renew- able Energy Certificates, a Power Pur- chasing Agreement, and the pursuit of  Green Pricing. 
Expansion of  Renewable  Energy Use 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
036 Sustainability Pillars 
Commitment to the Environment in Our Operation 
In October 2018, we converted to 100%  renewable energy at our US headquar- ters and all of our US Device Solution  manufacturing plants. In addition, our  Slovakia worksites in Europe followed  in the footsteps of the US headquarters  and DS worksites. Furthermore, our Chi- nese TV and Device Solution worksites  installed solar panels with a 5.5MW  capacity on their rooftops. We will grad- ually convert other worksites in the US,   Europe and China to source renewable  energy, reflecting regional differences. 
At our Suwon worksite in Korea, we  installed solar panels with a combined  capacity of 1.9MW on the rooftops of its  five R D facilities in December 2018.  The energy generated by the panels  is used in our R D and parking areas.   
Goals for Expansion of Renewable Energy Use 
Install solar panels and geothermal units at parking areas and on the rooftops  of domestic worksites in Suwon, Hwaseong, and Pyeongtaek by 2020 
Aim to source 100% renewable energy for energy used in our factories, office  buildings, and operational facilities in the US, Europe and China by 2020 
Encourage our 100 major suppliers to establish their own renewable energy  targets, in line with our participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)  supply chain in 2019 
By 2020, we will gradually introduce  additional solar panels and geothermal  units to other worksites, Hwasung and  Pyeongtaek worksites.  
In addition to our worksites in the US,  Europe, and China, we are also convert- ing to renewable energy in other regions,  where ample renewable energy is avail- able. For instance, we installed 1.1 MW of  solar panel capacity as a pilot in India in  2018, and are considering further instal- lations in the country. Our worksites in  Brazil and Mexico source a certain por- tion of their power consumption from  renewable energy sources, and we will  continue to increase the percentage of  renewable energy use at our worksites. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 037 
Energy Savings   at Overseas  Worksites 
Energy Cost Saving by Type Unit : Bil. KRW 
In order to minimize our environmen- tal impact, we are committed to saving  energy at our worksites. For overseas  worksites, We have a list of 100 energy  saving tasks. These tasks are carried out  according to the area-specific character- istics of each subsidiary. 
Our major energy saving initiatives  include: 1) the optimization of air-condi- tioning, refrigeration, air-compressing  and pumping rates 2) blockage of leak- age in clean rooms as well as reduction  in outdoor air volume for pressurization   3) installation of an automatic cleaning   
system for condensers to enhance refrig- erating efficiency 4) optimization of the  expandable polystyrene (EPS) molding  machine s steam working pressure. As a  result, we achieved a cost saving of 34.35  billion KRW in 2018, 127% higher than  our target. 
We plan to continue to pursue the pre- vious year s major initiatives by includ- ing them in the list of the 100 tasks for  energy saving in 2019, and we will high- light the best initiatives at our annual  Environment   Safety Innovation Day. 
Compressed air 
 Refrigeration 
2.2 1.1 1.0 0.1 4.6 
Committees and Councils 
Environment   Safety  Committee 
Eco Council  
IM   CE Division Synergy  Committee 
DS Division EHS Committee 
EHS Manager Council  
GHG Management Council  
Construction Safety Council  
Construction Safety Innovation  Research Committee 
According to our mid- to long-term roadmap of green manage- ment, we have established four EHS key performance indicators  that we expect to achieve by 2020 in the four areas: EHS man- 
EHS Management System 
Samsung Electronics' investment in environmental impact  reduction has been a long-standing commitment. Our Global  Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Center and Global Cus- tomer Service (CS) Center, under the direct leadership of the  CEO, actively manage EHS issues and the environmental  impacts of products, respectively. Moreover, we operate our  Global Environment, Health and Safety (G-EHS) system to man- age the EHS status and performances of all worksites.  
Committees and Councils 
We operate committees and councils dedicated to EHS management in which relevant departments engage in regular meetings and   management carefully supervises the operation of the activities.  
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
ISO 14001  environmental  management  standards 
Description 
Discuss company-wide environmental strategy  and discuss worksite-related pending issues 
Set development goals and implementation strategies  for highly energy-efficient and environmentally conscious products 
Discuss workplace EHS issues, best practices, and  healthcare 
Discuss key EHS issues 
Discuss a safety culture, regulatory compliance,  and chemicals management 
Select implementation tasks to respond to climate  change and manage their progress 
Establish a strategy for site construction safety management  and discuss major issues 
Perform strategic tasks (design, construction method, and IoT  technology) for accident prevention at construction sites 
038 Sustainability Pillars 
Commitment to the Environment in Our Operation 
ISO 45001 occupational health and  safety management  standards 
agement systems, GHG emissions, water resource, and waste  management. In addition to these goals, we have added a 2020  renewable energy pledge and thoroughly monitored them. 
Our global manufacturing sites are certified by management   systems based on global EHS standards. In order to retain these  management systems certifications, we conduct an after-the- fact self-evaluation and a third-party renewal evaluation every  three years. As a result of conducting internal EHS audits, we  identified 862 improvement tasks and achieved 97% of them in  2018. 
Head of the Global  CS Center 
Head of the Global  EHS Center 
Head of the Global  EHS Center 
Head of the Global  EHS Center 
Head of the Global   EHS Center 
Head of the Global   EHS Center 
ISO 50001 energy management  standards 
Meeting Schedule 
3 times a year  
2 times a year  
2 times a year  
6 times a year 
6 times a year  
2 times a year  
10 times a year  
12 times a year  
Footnote: 1) Clean Development Mechanism 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 039 
Energy and Climate Change 
In order to effectively tackle climate change, we identify and  analyze major issues and risks, and then establish and imple- ment relevant strategies. The results are periodically reviewed  by the relevant committees and councils.  We manage GHG  emissions at our all workplace (Scope 1 and 2) through the  
Issue Identification and Risk Opportunity Analysis  
Implement and Monitor Pursuing Tasks 4 
3 Establish Response Strategies for the Entire Corporation   and Relevant Departments 
Analyze Results and Manage Goals 5 
Analyze Impact, Risk and Opportunity for Our Corporation 2 
Identify Global Climate Change Status and Issues 1 
Regulatory 
Others Survey consumers and expand the  development of environmentally  conscious products 
Risks Our approach Opportunities 
Product energy efficiency  regulations 
Changing consumer  behavior 
Typhoon   Flood 
GHG emissions  trading scheme 
Green power  availability 
Yellow dust 
Develop refrigerants with low  global warming potential Carbon Tax 
Corporate  reputation 
Build a system to reduce emissions  and respond to carbon trading 
Set damage prevention and  recovery scenarios and invest in  heating   air conditioning facilities 
Sign PPAs, pursue a Green Pricing  Scheme, and purchase RECs 
Increase facility investment to  prevent and repair from natural  disasters 
Strengthen in-house activities  and external communication 
Develop   energy-efficient products 
Global EHS System on a monthly basis. In 2018, our GHG emis- sions were 10.1% less than expected. For indirect GHG emissions  (in Scope 3), we cooperate with suppliers, R D institutes, and  relevant departments to meet our reduction targets. 
Risk and Opportunity Analysis 
We established a strategy to mitigate and adapt to the impacts  of climate change. We prioritize major climate change issues  based on importance of business and impacts on stakeholders  and reflect the results in the strategic decisions. 
Increase the number of products with  environmental certifications and labels  to advance product stewardship 
Respond preemptively to   consumer needs for environmentally  conscious products 
Create new business opportunities   for home appliances, such as air   purifies and dryers 
Undertake CDM   projects at  worksites, secure  emission credits 
Undertake corporate citizenship  projects for climate change  adaptation 
Expand renewable energy use   and reduce GHG emissions 
Improve our corporate  reputation 
In order to beter cope with climate change, we established  strategies and related action plans to reduce our Scope 1, 2 and  3 emissions. For Scope 3 emissions, we have been monitoring  emissions from our suppliers. In particular, we have encouraged  our 100 major suppliers to set their own renewable energy tar- gets, since we joined the CDP Supply Chain in April 2019. Addi- tionally, we have been exploring ways to reduce indirect GHG  emissions from the use of our products, employee business  trips, logistics, and suppliers. 
Establishing and Implementing Our Strategy 
Strategy and Action Plans 
Footnote: 1) Fluorinated Gas 
GHG Reduction Results and Plans 
Expansion of Renewable Energy Use at Worksites In June 2018, we announced plans to source renewable energy  for 100% of the energy used for all of its factories, office build- ings, and operational facilities in the US, Europe and China by  2020. In Korea, we have been installing solar PV   geothermal  power generation systems on the 63,000m2 rooftops and park- ing lots of our worksites, including Suwon, Pyeongtaek, and  Hwaseong. In accordance with our June 2018 commitment, we  consumed 1,356GWh renewable energy in 2018.  
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
Reduction in  GHG emissions  at worksites 
Expansion  of energy  management at  worksites  
Reduction in  GHG emissions  in the product  use phase 
Management  of Scope 3  emissions 
Supplier  support 
   Operate F-Gas   emission reduction facilities for  the semiconductor manufacturing process    Manage energy saving projects and improve  energy efficiency 
   Develop energy management systems across all  worksites and maintain the relevant certification  (from 2013 onwards)    Manage worksite specific energy costs and indicators 
   Develop and launch products with high energy  efficiency 
   Manage GHG emissions from logistics, business  trips and others (from 2009 onwards) 
   Monitor suppliers' GHG emissions (from 2012  onwards)    Join CDP Supply Chain 
040 Sustainability Pillars 
Commitment to the Environment in Our Operation 
Introduce  energy efficient  technologies in  facilities 3.3% 
Increase  manufacturing  process  efficiency 1.4% 
GHG Emissions Reduction Plan for 2019 
Introduce  energy efficient  technologies in  facilities 0.8% 
Increase  manufacturing  process  efficiency 0.1% 
GHG Emissions Reduced in 2018 
GHG Emission Reductions at Workplaces  Our GHG emissions are increasing every year due to produc- tion volume growth. In 2018, we invested in emission reduc- tion equipment and optimized facility operation, reducing 2,931  metric tons of GHG emissions. In particular, at our semicon- ductor plants, which use more power than other manufactur- ing worksites, we took 17 actions to cut GHG emissions, includ- ing F-Gas treatment, optimal manufacturing facility operation,  and the introduction of  a heat recovery system, thus reducing a  total of 2.25 million tons of GHG emissions. 
Switch to LED lighting 0.4% 
Switch to LED lighting 0.1% 
Expand renewable energy use  22.6% 
Expand renewable energy use  51% 
Increase facility efficiency 7.2% 
Increase facility efficiency 1.7% 
Reduce F-gas used  for manufacturing 64.7% 
Others 0.4% 
Reduce F-gas used  for manufacturing 42.1% 
Others 4.2% 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 041 
Energy Saving To adequately manage the energy consumption at our  worksites, we formulate annual energy reduction programs and  action plans for each worksite and we monitor their progress on  monthly basis. In 2018, we saved 5,038GWh(16.2%) from our  expected consumption of 31,066GWh. 
Energy Consumption Unit : GWh 
Scope 3 Emissions Reduction  In 2018, we reduced 1,459 tons of CO   from Scope 3 logistics  emissions through 25 reduction measures, including transport  route changes, loading efficiency improvements, and efficient  transport management. In addition, we estimated our suppli- ers  GHG emissions from their energy consumption including  the use of fossil fuels and electricity. Furthermore, our employ- ees are increasingly replacing business trips with video confer- ences to minimize unnecessary emissions. A total of 195,279  video conferences were held in 2018, which resulted in a 7.6%  reduction in GHG emissions from domestic business compared  to 2017. 
2018 2018 (Expected) 
Climate Change Adaptation 
Through our R D and business operation, we are making a vari- ety of efforts for both climate change mitigation and climate  change adaptation. Climate change adaptation is a strategy  that minimizes existing or expected risks such as changes to  ecosystems, industrial changes, and disasters caused by climate  change. The strategy also aims to maximize opportunities for  sustainable development. 
LED Lighting Installation   Project - External GHG Emissions Reduction 
In 2017, we installed 2,700 LED street lightings to ensure  the safety of residents in the province. In December 2018, we  signed a social contribution agreement to transfer Emission  Reduction Credits (ERCs) with Gangwon province. The GHG  emission reductions that will arise from this project have been  approved as an external reduction activity under the Korean  Offset Program. We will transfer the ERCs that will be created  for the next ten years to the provincial government. Going for- ward, we will expand our external reduction activities in coop- eration with local communities.  
Household Energy Efficiency Improvement Project 
Since 2016, we have promoted a  Household Energy Efficiency  Improvement Project , providing an energy-efficient home  design with energy diagnosis and reconstruction through  improvements in insulation, boilers, windows, and home struc- ture. In 2018, we supported 58 households in 13 cities in Gyeo- nggi Province through the project. With this project, we aim to  save 29 tons of GHG emissions, per annum. 
Project Result from 2016 to 2018 
8.6 tCO e 2016 
43 tCO e 2017 
2018 29 tCO e 
10 0 20 30 40 50 
No. of  households GHG reduction 
Water Resource Policy 
Our Belief 
Water Resource Management 
Water management at our worksites is an integral part of pro- tecting the environment. Through our Water Resource 3R activ- ities, which include reduce, reuse and recycle, as well as mon- itoring of water discharge, we strive to achieve our target of  reaching 50 tons KRW 100 million intensity-based water con- sumption. Specifically, each worksite has adopted water con- sumption as a core KPI and set an annual goal for effective water  management.  
Water Risk Management 
We monitor water resource risks at our global manufacturing  sites, based on the water resource management methodology  suggested by the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), the  World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD),  and the World Resource Institute (WRI). In addition, we have  devised a strategy according to the CDP Water Guidelines. Out  of the regions where we operate, our risk analysis identifies 5  countries (in which 12 of our subsidiaries are based) as water- stressed. 
Action  Guidelines 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
We work hard to minimize water resource risk in  business management. 
We evaluate the impacts  of our business activities,  including production, on water resources to  minimize risks and to  continuously pursue  the introduction of new  technology. 
We recognize the importance of water resources in maintaining a sustainable society and conducting business, and  fulfill our social responsibility to protect these valuable resources as a global company. 
042 Sustainability Pillars 
Commitment to the Environment in Our Operation 
We recognize the impor- tance of water resources  as part of our corporate culture. 
We establish the  preservation and  sustainability of water  resources as our corporate  culture to help our  employees recognize their  responsibility for water  resource management,  and consider the impacts  of our operation, on local communities and the  environment with the  highest priority. 
Water Withdrawal by Region Unit: thousand tons 
Subsidiaries  in water- stressed  region    
Footnote: 1)  It is calculated based on the water resource management methodology  suggested by FAO, WBCSD, and WRI. 
Based on domestic and  overseas guidelines on  water resources, we actively  cooperate with local and  central governments of the  regions where we operate,  as well as international  organizations, in  establishing and executing  policies on water resources.   
We actively cooper- ate with external water  resource policies. 
Subsidiaries  
Withdrawal  Amount 
92,003        
We transparently disclose  corporate policies and  activities regarding the  use of water resources to  stakeholders, including  local communities. 
We disclose our water  resource policies and  activities. 
Discharge  
76,354        
Korea (7)   India (2)   Poland (1)   Egypt (1)   South Africa (1) 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 043 
Water Risk Analysis and Strategy by Region 
South Africa    
Water Risk Reduction 
We minimize water resource risks by securing dual water supply  pathways and installing water storage tanks.  
In order to increase our water reuse, we classify water into 4 cat- egories sewage, wastewater, industrial water, and ultra-pure  water and manage them separately at each site. We manage  the reuse rate of each category through our internal  G-EHS sys- 
Flow of Water Resources 
Footnote:  1)  water resource risks are minimized by securing dual water  supply pathways and installing water storage tanks 
Sources of Water  supply   
Physical risk (floods)  
Physical risk  (water quality degradation) 
Physical risk  (floods) 
Physical risk  (droughts) 
Regulatory risk  (discharge)  
Physical risk (water quality degradation) 
Physical risk  (water outages) 
Regulatory risk  (regulatory change in water use and discharge) 
Regulatory risk  (enactment of efficiency standards) 
Regulatory risk (uncertainty over new regulations) 
Reputational risk  
(lawsuits raised due to wastewater) 
Industrial water 78,837 
Municipal water 54,434 Stream 
Underground water 959 
Manufaturing process 
Create wetlands and dikes in response to floods affecting streams in the vicinity  of our worksites 
Purchase disaster insurance policies and regularly check flood control equipment 
Increase the frequency of conducting in-house water quality analysis and the  efficiency of water treatment facilities 
Build an emergency response system and conduct regular drills in preparation for  wastewater leaks due to river flooding around the worksites 
Install water tanks to store water sufficient for one day operation of production  facilities on average 
Sewage and wastewater from worksites are moved to the terminal treatment  facility within the industrial complex for processing (no in-house sewage   wastewater treatment facility under operation) 
Secure water quality through the pre-intake water treatment process 
Install dual water intake facilities and water collecting facilities to prevent  production delays 
Abide by the in-house criteria stricter than country-specific legal discharge  criteria 
Conduct water efficiency reviews when building new facilities and make facility  investment to improve the water efficiency of existing facilities 
Continuously monitor global environmental regulations 
Continuously monitor effluent discharge 
Build an environmental management system early on for new manufacturing sites 
External treatment facility 44,540 
tem.  We calculate the reuse volume by subtracting the amount  of water discharged, evaporated, and lost from the total amount  of water used at treatment facilities. 
We safely discharge water through our internal and external  treatment facilities. When discharged through the in-house  treatment facility, we ensure safe discharge by applying stricter  standards than legal requirements. 
Reuse 62,371 
Samsung  Electoronics 
In-house treatment facility 
Unit: thousand tons 
Water Resource Management Activities 
Our efforts to optimize water use at our facilities range from  daily commitments, such as replacing old valves with new ones  and improving the control of tower drain valves, to structural  improvements, including manufacturing process improvements  and the establishment of a recycling system. In 2018, we were  able to reuse 62,371 thousand tons of water, which is an increase  of 11%, when compared to 2017. 
Major Improvements in Water Management in 2018 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
Minimize water usage by introducing highly efficient  technology in our facilities 1 
Optimize water use through process improvement 
   Replace major systems in major utility facilities, such as  piping and ducts 
   Replace the source of water use process to recycled water 
   Introduce an automatic control system by utilizing  sensing technology 
Reduce water usage by effective use of key facilities 
   Replace consumable components with improved ones 
   Adjust the extra load capacity of facility operation 
044 Sustainability Pillars 
Commitment to the Environment in Our Operation 
Optimization of manufacturing facilities 
For the Pyeongtaek worksite, the average daily water con- sumption has been reduced by 1,124 tonnes through the opti- mization of water-using facilities and the streamlining of man- ufacturing processes. 
Reduction of Ultra-Pure Water Use in Facilities 
Giheung and Hwasung plants streamlined ultra-pure water  process facility systems, applied high-efficiency sensing tech- nology, and revised an integrated monitoring system. After  these efforts, we have been able to reduce daily use of ultra- pure water by 599 tonnes. 
Maximum Use of Underground Water 
Our site located in Suwon has maximized the use of under- ground water in landscaping, fire extinguishing facilities,  and toilet flushing for each large building. These efforts have  reduced daily water usage by 579 tons.  
World Water Day in 2018 
Demonstrating our commitment to protecting our planet, we  celebrate World Water Day and conduct activities to preserve  streams and marine ecosystems each year in our worksites  around the globe. In 2018, a total of 3,200 employees from 27  overseas worksites (including Brazil, Mexico and Vietnam),  as well as Korean ones, participated in the event. At each  worksite, local governments, NGOs and students engaged  in activities to clean-up streams near the site, preserve eco- systems (such as releasing native fish and planting aquatic  plants).  Participants also conducted water conservation cam- paigns and educational activities. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 045 
Waste Management 
In order to minimize waste generated from production, we have  developed a product design and manufacturing process that  considers resource efficiency. In addition, we have a waste con- trol system in place in the manufacturing process to minimize  waste generation.   
We classify waste according to the standards in each nation. We  generally separate waste into general and designated waste,  and dispose of or recycle it in accordance with prescribed laws  and best practices. When we are unable to dispose of the gen- erated waste in-house, we select qualified third party contrac- tors to measure its weight and treat it. We monitor the amount  of waste generated and recycled at each worksite every month  to achieve a waste recycling rate of 95%. For those worksites  failing to meet their targets, we develop separate management  plans, in order to ensure that the waste is properly treated and  to improve the recycling rate. 
Waste Management Plan 
   Operate Eco-design evaluation  process 
   Evaluate eco-friendliness during  the development phase (e.g.  resource efficiency, environmental  risks, energy efficiency) 
Pollutant Management  
To reduce air pollutant emissions, we have introduced a Nitro- gen Oxide (NOx) reduction system, a catalyst oxidation process,  and a dust collector and cyclone system. We have also elimi- nated 93% of water pollutants at our worksites in Korea by opti- mizing wastewater treatment facilities.  
In accordance with the Montreal Protocol, worksites in Korea  use hydro chloro-fluorocarbon (HCFC)-based substances as  refrigerants for freezers and chillers. These substances have a  relatively low ozone depletion potential. We plan to replace all  refrigerant materials used at our worksites with those that mini- mize the impacts on the ozone layer. 
Waste and Hazardous Waste 
Product Development Waste Discharge Waste  Transport Waste  Treatment 
   Set targets in waste recycling ratio 
   Reduce environmental risks  (develop and switch to low toxic  substances, neutralize toxic  substances, etc.) 
   Comply with conventions on the  border control of hazardous waste 
   Monitor the movements routes of  waste-carrying vehicles 
We developed a new technology for reducing NOx, the main  cause of fine dust, and applied high-efficient facility with the aim  of reducing environmental impact. With our boiler-reducing tech- nology (Low NOx burner, DeNOx Facility), we were able to reduce  NOx emissions by approximately 90%, in terms of concentration  through the introduction of such technology. In addition, in semi- conductor manufacturing sites, we have reduced NOx emissions  through the optimization of primary control equipment at the rear  of the facility. By further applying the technology to rooftop preven- tion, we expect to reduce 75% of NOx concentrations in the future.  In addition to improvement activities to reduce NOx at work- places, we are also making an effort to comprehensively study fine  dust problems and find technical solutions through our Fine Dust  Research Institute, which was established in January 2019. 
Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) Reduction Activity 
We encourage the use of personal cups at work to reduce the use  of disposable products. Also, we have enhanced the separate col- lection of waste at our worksites in Korea. 
In our employee restaurants and canteens, plastic containers  are being replaced with paper to improve resource efficiency. In  stores at the worksites, paper cups and straws are used instead  of plastics. These stores also provide drinks in mugs and offer  discounts when customers use their own tumblers. Through  the implementation of such a campaign in 2018, we reduced  office-generated disposable product usage by 80 ton in 3 months.  
Since 2018, we have helped our community by reusing waste milk  packs generated from our worksites.  Waste milk packs are recy- cled into toilet paper, which we donate to the disadvantaged in  our local communities.  
Reducing Disposable Products  (Office, Restaurant, Stores at the worksites) 
   Check the waste processing  service providers' compliance  level through regular visits 
   Perform annual environmental  assessments on processing  service providers (operational  competency, environmental  management, etc.) 
Biodiversity Conservation Policy  
We have established a strategy and a course of action to pro- tect  biodiversity  by informing our employees of the importance  of preserving biodiversity and reflecting it in our business plans. 
Biodiversity Improvement Activities  
At our worksites in Korea, we regularly measure water quality   in our  surrounding streams. In particular, we monitor  chemical  oxygen demand (COD), biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), and  pH (PH) to manage ecological effects.  
In addition, we identify endangered species and take actions to  conserve their habitats. These conservation activities are con- ducted in partnership with local NGOs, family members of our  employees, and students.  
Biodiversity 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
3.  Activities  We prioritise areas of high biodiversity value across all our  worksites. We undertake biodiversity preservation activities  that cater to local needs and challenges. 
2.  Impact Assessment and Minimization  We assess and analyze our influence on ecosystems and  biodiversity along the life cycle of our products and strive to  minimize any negative impacts. 
Conservation of Biodiversity 
Our Belief  
We recognize the importance of biodiversity. We aim to mini- mize any negative impact on biodiversity, and fully undertake  ecosystem preservation initiatives. 
Action Plans 
1.  Value Recognition  All our employees recognize that the preservation of biodi- versity is an important part of our green management. 
4.  Communication  We constantly communicate with employees, local commu- nities, NGOs, and other stakeholders to contribute to the  preservation of biodiversity in local communities. 
046 Sustainability Pillars 
Commitment to the Environment in Our Operation 
Ecological Impact Analysis on Nearby Streams 
Endangered Species by Region across   Worksites in Korea Unit: Individual 
   Measured by: Pyeongtaek University 
   Fish: 238 individuals from 8 species (Dominant species: Crucian  carp, subdominant species: carp) 
   Benthic invertebrates: 722 individuals from 22 species (domi- nant species: Red midge, subdominant species: Tubifex) 
   Measured by: Korea Ecology   Environment Institute 
   Fish: 169 individuals from 12 species were confirmed (crucian  carp 31%, carp 16%) 
   Ecosystem: Benthic invertebrates were confirmed (insects 65%    non-insects 35%)  Dominant species: Caddisfly (Cheumato- psyche brevilineata Iwata, 12%) 
   Measured by: Kyunghee University, Korea 
   Fish: 658 individuals from 15 species were confirmed (carp  88%, mudskipper 7%) 
   Ecosystem: Benthic invertebrates were confirmed (insects 69%    non-insects 31%) Dominant species: Diptera (31%) 
   Ecotoxicity: No impact on the stream was observed as a result  of measuring effluent 
   Ecotoxicity: No impact on the stream was observed as a result  of measuring effluent 
   Attached algae: Confirmed 16 genera of 40 taxa (Dominant  species, subdominant species: diatom) 
Seojeongri Stream,  Pyeongtaek 
Wonchenri Stream, Hwaseong 
Osan Stream, Giheung 
Hwa-  seong 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 047 
Communicating with  Stakeholders Environmental   Compliance  
We disclose our environmental management strategies and  goals and report to our stakeholders about our activities. Nota- bly, we are involved in the Carbon Disclosure Project to disclose  our performance and information on climate change.  
In addition, we operate channels to continuously enhance  stakeholders' environmental awareness. For our semiconduc- tor sites in Korea, we hold monthly meetings  with local citizens  of Yongin, Hwaseong, and Pyeongtaek to communicate and  receive their feedback. In 2018, we received from internal and  external stakeholders a total of 3,689 inquiries and requests on  environmental improvements in our operation, and took care of  99% of them. Moreover, we have established a Supplier Envi- ronmental Safety Council to support on-site inspections and  improvement activities for our suppliers. 
Our Communication Channels 
Green Shop 
Elementary school education  programs: Planet First (Korea),  Climate Superstar (US) 
Promotion of energy efficient  products 
E-waste collection campaign  
In-house communication channel  (Samsung Electronics LiVE) 
We manage environmental compliance with standards and cri- teria that are more stringent than what is required by local reg- ulations across the world. Our internal environmental targets  are set at approximately 30% of legal requirement levels in  each country. 
From 2014 to 2018, there were no violation of environmental  regulations at any of our global manufacturing sites.  
'World Water Day' celebration event 
Education about countermeasures  against climate change 
COOPERATIVE COMPANY 
Support for establishing GHG  inventory  
Green  procurement guide 
Semiconductor plant  communication council  
Total Time of Employee  Volunteering 1,131,915 hours 
Total Corporate Citizenship  Expenditure 
KRW409,636 million 
2018 HIGHLIGHTS 
-  Cumulative Number of Beneficiaries   of Samsung Smart School 2,712,024 people 
-  Cumulative Number of Beneficiaries   of Samsung Tech Institute 113,395 people 
Cumulative Number of Beneficiaries  of Major Corporate Citizenship  Activities 
We are committed to fulfilling our social responsibilities to ensure a better quality of life for humanity. In particular, we are running  
solution contests to tackle societal problems. We also offer technology education in addition to programs that help youth realize their  
potential and develop useful skills for their future. In 2019, as we mark our 50th anniversary, we announced a new vision and theme for  
our global corporate citizenship :  Enabling People - Education for the Future Generations.  Under this new vision, we will work to help  
build a world that provides greater access to educational opportunities for youth. 
ALIGNMENT WITH SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 
[Goal 4] Ensure inclusive  and equitable quality  education and promote  lifelong learning  opportunities for all 
4.4  By 2030, substantially  increase the number of youth  and adults who have relevant  skills, including technical and  vocational skills, for employ- ment, decent jobs and entre- preneurship 
4.B  By 2020, substantially  expand globally the number  of scholarships available  to developing countries, in  particular least developed  countries, small island  developing States and African  countries, for enrolment in higher  education, including vocational  training and information and  communications technology,  technical, engineering and  scientific programmes, in  developed countries and other  developing countries 
Goal 8] Promote sustained,  inclusive and sustainable  economic growth, full and  productive employment  and decent work for all 
8.5  By 2030, achieve full and  productive employment and  decent work for all women  and men, including for young  people and persons with  disabilities, and equal pay for  work of equal value 
8.6  By 2020, substantially  reduce the proportion of  youth not in employment,  education or training 
9.C  Significantly increase  access to information and  communications technology  and strive to provide  universal and affordable  access to the Internet in least  developed countries by 2020 
9.2  Promote inclusive and  sustainable industrialization  and, by 2030, significantly  raise industry s share of  employment and gross  domestic product, in line  with national circumstances,  and double its share in least  developed countries 
[Goal 9] Build resilient  infrastructure, promote  inclusive and sustainable  industrialization, and foster  innovation 
[Goal 17] Strengthen the  means of implementation  and revitalize the global  partnership for sustainable  development 
17.7  Promote the  development, transfer,  dissemination and diffusion  of environmentally sound  technologies to developing  countries on favourable  terms, including on  concessional and preferential  terms, as mutually agreed 
17.8  Fully operationalize the  technology bank and science,  technology and innovation  capacity-building mechanism  for least developed countries  by 2017 and enhance the use  of enabling technology, in  particular information and  communications technology 
To become a trusted and valued member  of global society, for many years, Sam- sung Electronics has committed itself to   corporate social responsibility (CSR)  and  has launched robust CSR initiatives. 
Throughout 2018, we have revisited our  citizenship direction and achievements.  We had in-depth discussions and inter- views with many stakeholders to obtain  advice and ideas necessary to refine our  future direction. 
New Corporate Citizenship   Vision and Theme 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
050 Sustainability Pillars 
Enabling People 
Enabling People Education for  Future Generations 
In order to mark our 50th anniversary this  year, we have refined our corporate citi- zenship vision and themes based on our  core values  People First  and  Co-pros- perity , laying the foundation to carry out  corporate citizenship programs in a more  systematic, and consistent manner.  
The new vision is  Enabling People . 
This vision points to our commitment  to help people fulfill their true potential  to develop a better future. In this new  vision, we will focus on  the Education of  Future Generations  as the main theme  of our corporate citizenship efforts.  
Vision Theme 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 051 
We are living in an age of ultra-connec- tivity characterized by extraordinary  social and generational changes such as  those emerging from the Fourth Indus- trial Revolution. To respond to these  changes, it is critical to educate and nur- ture youth with ample potential. 
Leveraging our human resources devel- opment experiences, we will strive to  develop the capabilities of young gener- ation. In addition, we will provide a new  
educational model based on our tech- nology and innovation expertise, help- ing youth play major roles in our society  in the future. 
Furthermore, we plan to strengthen our  partnership with various stakeholders  and closely communicate with society as  we carry out our citizenship activities. 
We will continue to create a culture  where all our employees, including top  management, contribute to society by  taking part in volunteering activities.  We  will also expand employee volunteering  opportunities. 
We will continue to do our best to be a  responsible contributor to our society and  to our communities, recognizing that  success is tied to sharing with those  around us. 
At Samsung Electronics, we believe in the promise of Science,  Technology Engineering and Math (STEM) to solve societal  problems. Thus, we run programs called  Samsung Solve for  Tomorrow  in 14 countries around the world and a similar pro- gram in Korea called  Samsung Tomorrow Solutions.  These  programs allow participants to develop solutions for problems  facing our communities by applying creative problem-solving  capabilities and knowledge on STEM. We plan to expand these  solution contests to more countries, explore ways for collabo- ration with our in-house venture program C-Lab(Creative Lab),  and with external social ventures. 
Samsung Solve for Tomorrow Samsung Solve for Tomorrow aims to solve societal challenges  through creative ideas from youth using STEM. 
Through this program, students work on ideas to address  salient societal issues.  As schools progress in the competition,  we provide students with support for implementation. 
Samsung Solve for Tomorrow Process in the US 
Competitions Inspiring People to Tackle   Social Problems 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
  Application 
- Ideas Submitted 
  1st Round 
- Select 250 projects 
-  Submit activity  plans 
052 Sustainability Pillars 
Enabling People 
  2nd Round 
- Select 50 projects 
-  Create project  videos 
Public school teachers and students participating in this con- test collaborate as a team to propose an idea for local commu- nity improvement based on their STEM knowledge. 
Samsung Electronics employees also participate in this pro- gram as a skill-based mentors and project advisors. Mento- ring and guidance from our employees is igniting a passion to  address societal issues among youth and developing a pioneer- ing spirit in the participating youth. 
Since 2010, Samsung Solve for Tomorrow has been provid- ing thousands of students with opportunities to address social  issues while developing their leadership skills.  
  3rd Round 
-  10 national finalists  selected via online  voting 
  Final Round 
- Presentation 
-  Select three national  winners   
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 053 
Smart School Bus Stop Sign 
Cars illegally passing stopped school buses often cause student  injuries and fatalities. After a classmate was almost hit by a car,  students at Holly Grove Middle School in North Carolina, US were  inspired to take action to solve this problem. They created  Smart  School Bus Stop Sign . 
In this solution, the bus sensor is designed to alert drivers of an  approaching bus before it even arrives. The students believed that  this would prevent pedestrian accidents. 
Accordingly, Holly Grove Middle School was named a 2019  national winner in the US. They also won an additional  10,000 for  their school. The team is now working with city officials to install  Smart School Bus Stop Signs at locations where frequent viola- tions occur. 
English Conversation App for Migrant Workers 
The Alpha Lupi team from Nanyang Girls  High School in Singa- pore developed a mobile application for migrant workers to help  them learn English for workplace conversation.   
To help migrant workers understand conversational English, the   team proposed a mobile app that teaches users common work- place expressions through features such as games, vocabulary  cards and video lessons. 
Samsung Electronics selected the Alpha Lupi team as the winner  of 2018 in the middle school category, and gave SGD 20,000 worth  of Samsung Electronics products to their school, as well as SGD  1,600 for the team. 
Students of Holly Grove Middle School 
Alpha Lupi Team Customized 3D Splints 
Samsung STEM Girls Program in China 
To nurture the next generation of women scientists, Samsung  China and China Women s Development Foundation operate a pro- gram to support future talent, especially in the field of STEM. The  program provides online learning, offline workshops and training  camps for girls aged from 12 to 16.  
In 2018, a total 1,573 students from 155 schools participated in this  program. 12 of these students who came up with multiple ideas to  improve living conditions in Inner Mongolia, were given the oppor- tunity to visit the University of Cambridge in the U.K. 
Customized 3D Splints 
The  3D Splints  team from Technical School No.1 in Argentina has  been reflecting on ways to make peoples lives better by using their  skills they were learning.  
The team found a way to make splints customized for each patient,  replacing conventional splints that were costly and uncomfort- able. In order to do so, the team utilized a body scanner to tailor  splints to a patient s body shape. They then applied 3D printing  technology to create splints with recyclable plastic materials that  are light (250g), comfortable, and affordable.  
As a result, the team won a prize in the 2018 Samsung Solve for  Tomorrow and received USD 12,000 worth of Samsung Electronics  products. 
Awards Certificates for Young Female Scientists 
Samsung Tomorrow Solutions Samsung Tomorrow Solutions is an annual contest held in Korea  since 2013. This program is open to anyone to propose their  own creative ideas to address social issues. Samsung Electron- ics employees and expert mentors provide support for contest  participants. As part of the program, outstanding solutions are  implemented to address social issues. Participants can suggest  ideas on any topic such as education, health   medical care,  local communities, environment   safety. 
MAYDAY and Developer Young Shin Park Mobile Eye Disorder Diagnosis Device 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
 MAYDAY    Signal to Save More Lives 
Firefighter Young Shin Park wanted to create an enhanced  communication device that can be used in fires. So, together  with telecommunication experts and his colleagues, he  entered Samsung Tomorrow Solutions contest. Firefighters  may miss important signs in a fire due to high levels of noise.  To solve this problem, his team developed a communication  device called  MAYDAY , which integrates earphones and a  neck microphone into a fire helmet.  
The team gathered opinions from 641 field officers, and advice  from Samsung mentors. This feedback allowed the team to  enhance the  functions of their product including earphone fea- tures.  
MAYDAY, a device created by collective ideas, won a grand  prize in Samsung Tomorrow Solutions with high scores in the   social impact  and  empathy  criteria in the  idea  category.  The team plans to further enhance the performance of MAYDAY,  and to distribute the device to as many firefighters as possible. 
054 Sustainability Pillars 
Enabling People 
We select a contestant s idea based on a set of criteria that exam- ines creativity, durability, empathy, feasibility, and social impact.  There are two types of award categories:  idea  and  impact  cat- egories. During the contest, the participants get a chance to  make their solutions more sophisticated. Moreover, employees  and experts mentoring help the finalists to build prototypes of  their solutions. In addition, we help the contestants in commer- cializing and distributing their products by collaborating with  our in-house venture program C-Lab. 
Solution to Prevent Vision Loss 
There are approximately 280 million people with low vision  worldwide with 90 percent of them in emerging and develop- ing economies. Eye disorders can be treated if diagnosed in the  early stages, but people who have difficulty in affording treat- ments using expensive diagnostic devices often miss a chance  for a timely treatment, raising the likelihood of vision loss.  
To address this problem, a team of medical workers named   Project BOM  developed a smartphone-based diagnostic cam- era. Using this camera, a medical officer visits a patient to take  pictures of their eyes, and a doctor then remotely diagnoses the  patient s eye conditions.  
 Project BOM  received a grand prize in the  impact  category  of Samsung Tomorrow Solutions. This portable eye diagnostic  device is in pilot use at 20 community health centers in Viet- nam, and we plan to distribute the device to additional 20 cen- ters in the country by the end of 2019. 
At Samsung Electronics, we cooperate with local governments  and academic institutions to provide IT skills training for stu- dents and youth and prepare them for their future. As of 2018,  we have executed a total of 150 programs around the world in  places where we operate. Such endeavors have allowed Sam- sung Electronics to transfer knowledge and enhance the skills  of aspiring youth. 
Technology Education 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 055 
Samsung Digital Academy in India 
We have operated Samsung Digital Academy to foster IT talents  in cooperation with the Indian Institute of Technology in India  since 2015. The academy offers training sessions on emerging  technology, such as IoT and AI. Over the past four years, approx- imately 566 students participated in research projects using  our products and solutions. In addition, approximately 40 of our  employees have been providing technology mentoring to stu- dents, and they continuously exchange ideas on the subject.  
Samsung Lets App in Italy 
Since 2013, Samsung Electronics in Italy has been fostering the  creativity of young students by actively providing educational  opportunities. In 2017, in partnership with the Italian Ministry  of Education, we developed a new educational program for tech  education (coding and IoT), and softskills (leadership and prob- lem solving capabilities).  
Since 2018  LetsApp  provides high school students with a dig- ital learning platform for software skills such as coding and  IoT education. The program helps the students transform their  ideas into concrete entre-preneurial projects. We have already  provided education for approximately 50,000 students from  4,000 high schools, while 3,000 teachers have participated in  this program. Recognizing the successful outcome, the Minis- try of Education in Italy chose this program as the  Project for  High School Students with the Highest Impacts  and recog- nized it as an essential internship program (Alternanza Scuola  Lavoro) for youth skill development. 
Samsung IoT Academy in Russia 
 Samsung Software Academy for Youth (SSAFY)  in particular  is an academy established in Korea to strengthen the software  skills of youth who are looking for jobs. Moving forward, we will  continue offering technology education programs for youth to  assist them in developing skills needed for the Fourth Industrial  Revolution. 
Samsung IoT Academy in Russia  
The Samsung IoT Academy in Russia is a program designed to  foster IoT experts through practical training. The academy aims  to strengthen the IoT and AI data analysis capabilities of stu- dents from leading technical universities.  
In 2017, we launched an IoT lab, as well as an one-year course,  as a pilot project at the Moscow Institute of Radio Engineering,  Electronics and Automation (MIREA) and the Moscow Institute  of Physics and Technology (MIPT). In 2018, we expanded the IoT  academy to eight universities and plan to launch additional AI  courses in 2019.  
For the Samsung IoT Academy, we received awards 4 times in  2018, including  Best Social Project  awarded by the Ministry of  Education and Science of Russia. 
Samsung Semiconductor Science Class in Korea Since 2013, our DS (Device Solutions) division employees have  been voluntarily teaching elementary and middle school stu- dents from local communities in a  Samsung Semiconduc- tor Science Class.  The course provides basic knowledge about  semiconductors. Last year, more than 2,800 students partici- pated in this program. 
Due to the successful operation of the program and excellent  reviews from teachers and students, our DS business signed  MOUs with local offices of education to expand the program.  In 2019, we plan to expand the program to double the number  of beneficiaries to 6,100 students from 50 schools with 1,900  employees participating as volunteer teachers. School teachers  and our DS employees have organized a task force for develop- ing and teaching aid kits. The curriculum is composed of actual  exercises to help students understand how semiconductors  work in an interactive way. At some middle schools in Korea, the  program has now become a regular curriculum for students in  their first year of school. 
Youth Education 
As part of our endeavor to provide technology education and  capacity building for future generations, we are also providing  students with software skills training programs. This includes  our Samsung Junior Software Academy   Cup and Samsung Semi- conductor Science Class and Samsung Dreamclass. 
Samsung Junior Software Academy   Cup We have run the Samsung Junior Software Academy since July  2013. The Samsung Junior Software Academy, open to middle  to high school students, is a software training program that is  oriented to foster problem-solving skills. In addition, we hold  the Junior Software Cup annually. This program allows youth  to develop their own software to help solve societal problems.  In 2018, we hosted the fourth Junior Software Cup under the  theme of  happiness . A total of 2,403 teams participated in the  event, and 23 teams received awards. 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
056 Sustainability Pillars 
Enabling People 
Winner of Junior Software Cup: Happy Traveler 
Happy Traveler, an award-winning app in the 2018 Junior Soft- ware Cup, was developed by an 8th grade student, Jeon Dong- yun. He was inspired to make this app after his uncomfortable  experience from  touring in groups.  
Happy Traveler consists mainly of three functions:    Travel  Information  to provide sufficient information on tour sites  without a tour guide's assistance,    Notice  for the guide to  send notices to tourists, and    People Checking  for the guide  to verify that all tourists have arrived on time. Jeong Dong-yun  was able to develop the app with support and mentoring from  his teacher and our employee mentors. 
 Happy Traveler  Application 
Samsung Dreamclass As part of our goal to foster education for the future genera- tions, we have been running Samsung Dreamclass program in  Korea since 2012.  
Samsung Dreamclass is a program that offers Math and English  tutoring for middle school students who come from disadvan- taged backgrounds and have a high motivation for learning. The  program also grants scholarships to university students who  volunteer as a teacher. 
The Dreamclass started as a three-month pilot program in  December 2011, by taking into account the opinions from com- munity members, including students, parents, teachers and  governmental organizations. Samsung benchmarked two repu- table education programs (Teach for America and Building Edu- cated Leaders for Life) in the US before launching Dreamclass.  The participating students have improved their English scores  by 7 points and math scores by 15 points on average. Dreamc- lass now has become one of Samsung's regular programs since  2012. Currently, Samsung Dreamclass operates under three dif- ferent formats: (1) Weekday Classes, (2) Weekend Classes and  (3) Dreamclass Camp. 
(1) Weekday Classes : Weekday classes offers eight hours of  math and English tutoring per week. We hold weekday classes  in 31 cities, including Seoul, Korea's six largest cities, and Jeju  Island. There are 174 middle schools participating in weekday  classes.  
(2) Weekend Classes : Weekend classes focus on small and mid- sized cities. Weekend classes provides 8 hours of math and  English tutoring per week, and a total of 11 middle schools in  seven cities are currently participating. On top of the weekday  and weekend classes, we have partnered with the  Hope Culture  Club  at the Korea National Council on Social Welfare and sup- port students with cultural experiences such as musicals, classi- cal music performances, art exhibitions, and ballets.  
(3) Dreamclass Camp : Dreamclass Camp offers a sleepover  camp for 3 weeks during middle school students' winter or sum- mer vacations. The camp takes places at major universities, and  12 universities hosted this camp in 2018. The camp focuses on  middle school students living in rural cities and island villages  lacking infrastructure as well as those from specific groups such  as children of military personnel, fire fighters, coast guard offi- cers, police officers and other people who served the country.  At this camp, we offer not only 150 hours of tutoring classes, but  also counseling on students' post-secondary educational plans as  
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 057 
well as cultural activities, such as ballet and concerts. As of 2018,  Samsung Dreamclass successfully provided opportunities for  73,000 students with the support of more than 20,000 univer- sity students.  
In our seven years of operation, we have observed that this  investment in our youth has led to the virtuous cycle of giving  back.  Students who once participated in our program are revis- iting Samsung Dreamclass as university mentors.  Our goal of  Samsung Dreamclass is to inspire students and provide greater  educational opportunities to youth from disadvanted back- grounds. 
Back to Samsung Dreamclass as a mentor  
Noh Hye Ji participated in Samsung Dreamclass in 2012. As a  third-year middle school student, she was in search of greater  educational opportunities and mentors who could provide her  with guidance on post-secondary education. 
Samsung Dreamclass offered her a chance to connect with uni- versity student mentors and to attend various courses as well. 
When Hye Ji entered university, she was happy to return as an  mentor at the 2017 Winter Camp. She hopes that her own stu- dents will one day revisit Dreamclass as mentors, just as she  has done. 
My Dreamclass 
In October 2018, we released a short film called  My Dream  Class  based on the story of our Samsung Dreamclass program.  
The film's story revolves around the small fictional island,  Byeolliseom, where two university student volunteers are  Dreamclass mentors. Through mentoring and teaching their  passionate students, these instructors also learn about them- selves and find the true meaning of contributing to society  through education.  
We invited 400 Samsung Dreamclass alumni to the preview  event of the film. One of the alumni, Eom Seon Yeop, com- mented,  Samsung Dreamclass was a turning point in my life.  I hope  My Dream Class  can inspire more college students to  become instructors that can help disadvantaged students pur- sue their dreams . 
Number of Ideas Discovered through C-Lab   
Amount of Investment in  Research Funding   for Future Technology Program    
Unit: No. of Ideas 
  Basic Science          (180 projects) 266.2 
666.7    Material Technology          (160 projects) 218.5 
  ICT (177 projects) 182 
2018 HIGHLIGHTS 
Footnotes: 1) As of December 2018 2) As of April 2019 
Unit: billion KRW 
ical to the human rights of consumers. We want our technology and innovation to be accessible. Thus, we provide various features in  
our products that make it more accessible to all users. 
We are committed not only to offering innovative products and services, but also to creating a social environment where entrepre- 
neurship is encouraged and diverse start-ups can flourish. Furthermore, we are providing full support for the development of basic  
sciences. Whilst innovative product development is important, safeguarding security and personal data is paramount, as they are crit- 
ALIGNMENT WITH SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 
9.c  Significantly increase  access to information and  communications technology  and strive to provide  universal and affordable  access to the Internet in least  developed countries by 2020 
[Goal 9] Build resilient  infrastructure, promote  inclusive and sustainable  industrialization and foster  innovation 
9.b  Support domestic  technology development,  research and innovation  in developing countries,  including by ensuring a  conducive policy environment  for, inter alia, industrial  diversification and value  addition to commodities  
[Goal 17] Strengthen the  means of implementation  and revitalize the global  partnership for sustainable  development 
17.17  Enhance the global  partnership for sustainable  development, complemented  by multi-stakeholder  partnerships that mobilize  and share knowledge,  expertise, technology and  financial resources, to support  the achievement of the  sustainable development goals  in all countries, in particular  developing countries 
Linkflow s FITT 360 Security  Camera  
Linkflow:   a Story of   C-Lab Spin-off  
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
060 Sustainability Pillars 
Technology for Good 
At the end of 2012, we launched an in-  house idea incubation program called   C-Lab (Creative Lab)  to allow for the real- ization of creative ideas by employees of  Samsung Electronics. Furthermore, in  2015, we started the C-Lab Spin-off pro- gram to accelerate start-ups originating  in C-Lab. The program has contributed to  revitalizing entrepreneurial ecosystem in  Korea. 
Linkflow, one of our representative start  -up cases, started as part of the C-Lab  project in July 2015, and it was founded  in November 2016 as a spin-off. The sig- nature product of Linkflow is the world s  first 360-degree neckband wearable  camera,  FITT 360 . With three mounted  mini-cameras, users can record with just  one click while wearing FITT360 around  their neck. The neckband shape frees  users  hands while makes the first per- son viewpoint recording possible, which  provides more realistic pictures. With its  
innovative technology and design, the  FITT360 won the Innovation Award from  CES (Consumer Electronics Show) for the  two consecutive years in 2018 and 2019.  
Securing new opportunities in the mar- ket, the company recently widened their  horizons to the B2B market and devel- oped  FITT 360 SECURITY , a bodycam  for officers and security guards, to tar- get security market. While existing body- cams for police officers and security  guards only allow limited views from the  front and rear directions,  FITT 360 SECU- RITY  provides a 360 degree view with- out any blind spots. Linkflow is continu- ously improving the device by listening  to users  feedback. 
In 2018, Linkflow was recognized for its  competitiveness in the global market, and  it raised about 400 million KRW of crowd  funding via Kickstarter and indiegogo. 
Linkflow employees  
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 061 
Our Efforts  to Enhance  Accessibility 
Samsung Electronics continues to  develop and research accessibility fea- tures in our products and services with   the goal of serving the needs of all users.  
In cooperation with Korea Blind Union,  Korea Association of the Deaf and Korea  Association of Persons with Physical  Disabilities, we have improved or newly  developed the accessibility of home  appliances by operating an accessibility  advisory group consisting of seven users  who have low vision, are hard of hearing  or have physical motor limitations from  2017 to 2018.  
For example, we have launched the  FlexWash washing machine to help low  vision consumers understand the pro- cess of washing. One of our employ- ees with low vision voluntarily partici- pated in the development process and  installed the product in his house for  three months to try it for himself. As a  result, we improved accessibility fea- tures and developed new voice scenar- ios to apply to the FlexWash. 
With respect to mobile products, our   Samsung Supporters  is another acces- sibility research initiative. Supporters  gather on a regular basis and share their  needs when they use a smartphone  in their daily lives. These opinions are  reflected to enhance the accessibility of  our Galaxy smartphones.  
For instance, people with low vision  often encounter discomfort when using  the Voice Assistant function. Users cited  their discomfort when using the func- tion in public, even after they removed  the ear-phones, the voice guide would  still be activated and audible to people  around them. 
Considering such feedbacks, we improved  the function so that the sound can be  muted in situations where it should not  be audible.  
For instance, we develop a multi-out- put audio feature to allow individual  users to enjoy different volume setting  simultaneously. People who are deaf or  hard of hearing expressed the inconve- nience of the sign language screen size.  Accordingly, we gathered their opinions  and developed a zoom-in feature for the  sign language screen allowing 200%  enlargement of the screen. In recogni- tion of this effort, we received the CES  Accessibility Innovation Award for four  consecutive years and Inclusive Society  Award from the Royal National Institute  of Blind People. 
Since 2013, we have been cooperating  with international associations for peo- ple  needs to increase the accessibility  features in our TVs. 
Samsung Supporters Discussing   Galaxy Functions 
Inspiring Creativity and Innovation 
C-Lab (Creative Lab) 
Since the end of 2012, we have been operating an incubation  program called C-Lab, not only to develop a new future growth  engine by fostering new business areas, but also to foster a cre- ative organizational culture where our employees can easily  explore their ideas.  
C-Lab is operated in two ways: C-Lab Inside and C-Lab Outside 
C-Lab Inside is part of our in-house venture program in which  employees can discuss and propose ideas. The employees with  selected ideas will have a full year, taking a leave from their reg- ular task,  to explore ways to realize their ideas.  
With C-Lab, we develop products and solutions that can resolve  social issues and help vulnerable groups. An example is the VR  application  Relumino , which was developed through C-Lab to  aid people with low vision.  
C-Lab Outside, a new part of the program created in 2018, was  developed to contribute to stimulate Korean economy and   create jobs. The C-Lab Outside was designed to share our exper- tise externally and activate Korean start-up ecosystems.  
Accumulated Number of C-Lab Inside Ideas   Unit : No of Ideas 
Footnotes: 1) As of December 2018 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
062 Sustainability Pillars 
Technology for Good 
C-Lab Inside Selection Processe 
C-Lab Inside Through C-Lab Inside, Samsung Electronics encourages and  fosters our employees  outstanding ideas in an innovative envi- ronment. We have been supporting the result of C-Lab ideas  through in-house product development. We also support  selected ideas to be transformed into fully fledged start-ups  through spin-off program.  
For the past 6 years, a total number of 918 employees partici- pated in C-Lab processes and 229 C-Lab ideas were discovered.  While 45 ideas are undergoing incubation process, 78 ideas  were transferred to relevant business units for further develop- ment. In addition, through the spin-off program of C-lab Inside,  a total of 135 people are founding members of 36 newly estab- lished companies as of December 2018, while recruiting about  170 employees, contributing to job creation. 
Idea  Proposal 
Mangoslab developed an innovative printer  Nemonic  that  prints people s ideas written in PCs and mobile devices into  sticky notes. For this innovation, the company received the  Best Innovation Award in 2017 CES. Established by 4 founding  members, the company expanded to have 24 employees from  the age of 20s to 50s to embrace diversity. The company suc- cessfully started product as a one-year old start-up and has  launched the products in Korea and Japan.   Moreover, Mango- slab collaborated with Samsung Electronics for the promotion  of Galaxy Note8 pre-order.  
Lululab s Lumini is an artificial intelligence-based beauty solu- tion app that analyzes skin through a single photo shot and  recommends cosmetics accordingly. This AI beauty solution  was recognized for its usability of big data in CES (Consumer  Electronics Show) 2019 by winning the Innovation Award in  Biotechnology sector, while receiving two design awards from  the world s top 3 renowned design awards such as iF Design  Award and Reddot Design Award. 
Presentation    Selection Paper  Review 
Online Voting     Offline  Interview 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 063 
C-Lab Outside C-Lab Outside encourages prospective entrepreneurs outside  Samsung Electronics to pitch their ideas and garner support for  their start-ups through financial aid, mentoring, consultancy  advice, business cooperation, and infrastructure. 
C-Lab Outside is an initiative to share our successful experi- ences and know-how with the outside world. This will not only  stimulate Korean economy, but also create opportunities for  entrepreneurs to implement their innovative ideas. 
We plan to support 300 start-ups over the next five years. We  hope to help create an ecosystem for start-ups in Korea by shar- ing our know-how from C-Lab, and to promote a culture where  people can venture into start-ups without fear. Moreover, we  welcome partnership opportunities with these start-ups so that  we grow together as a community. 
Aids for C-Lab Outside  
Financial Aid Mentoring  Consulting 
Infrastructure Cooperation 
Solving Social Problems through C-Lab C-Lab ideas have tackled societal problems and helped vulnera- ble groups in our society.  
For instance, Relumino, a visual aid application to help people  with low vision, started from the idea that users with different  visual needs should also be able to feel the joy of daily activities  that most people usually take for granted. While existing visual  aid equipment in the market is often very expensive, Relu- mino is accessible and more affordable to anyone with a Gal- axy smartphone and Gear VR. After Relumino was offered free  of charge to the public in 2017, approximately 1,400 low vision  users have benefited from this application. At the request of our  customers, we are currently developing a version of Relumino  that will be suitable for outdoor use. 
Moreover,  Ignis , a lightweight, wearable thermal imag- ing device and gas mask visor for firefighters, was developed  through C-Lab  based on the idea of a firefighter.  
Samsung Electronics has distributed 1,000 Ignis to fire stations  in Korea, and 300 devices to fire stations in Vietnam. 
Relumino Ignis 
Samsung Electronics  Research Funding for Future Technology  Program was launched in 2013 in Korea, with the belief that  investing in basic science contributes to laying long-term foun- dation for humanity and industry development. By 2022, we  plan to support 1.5 trillion KRW to leading research projects in  basic science, material technology and ICT sectors. The program  is run under the principle of  high risk, high impact , mean- ing that participants are not bound by agreement or obligated  to produce tangible results from their research. The program s  purpose is to encourage new or daring scientists to become  pioneers in technology foundations. Professors and experts  from 46 renowned institutions and universities, such as KAIST  (Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology), POS- TECH (Pohang University of Science and technology), KIST (Korea  
Research Funding for Future Technology Program  
Process of Research Funding for Future Technology Program 
Major Projects for Research Funding for Future  
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
01   Basic Science 
   Study on recovering damaged DNAs  (from radiation or viruses) for cancer  treatment and prevention    Study on salt diet to control sodium  intake for hypertension treatment and  prevention 
Research  Proposal 
90 panels select  presentation candidates  Presentations and discussions  for 150 panels   R D exchange conference, mentoring  for patent registration, expert consulting  for business launch 
064 Sustainability Pillars 
Technology for Good 
02   Material Science 
   Study on multi-functional filter that  purifies multiple pollutants (e.g. Heavy  metal, organic substances) at once    Study on an electrochemical reaction  based desalination equipment without  brine discharge  
Presentation  and Q A 
Institute of Science and Technology), and KIAS (Korea Institute  for Advanced Study), have participated in this program, with the  total number of 8,657 people participating. As of April 2019, we  funded total of 666.7 billion KRW to support 517 projects, and  this includes 180 projects for basic science, 160 projects for  material technology, and 177 projects for ICT. There are also 601  accumulated patents applications as a result of our program. In  addition to providing mentorship for patent registration, and  for starting business, we provide opportunities for knowledge  exchange between scientists and industry experts. In the first  half of 2019, we selected 44 projects for 61.7 billion KRW of fund- ing, including 16 projects in basic science, 11 projects in material  technology, and 17 projects in ICT. 
   Study on skin-adhesive sensor aiding  people who are deaf or hard of hearing    Study on microscopic LED system for  brain tumor treatment where surgery is  difficult 
Research  Support 
Since 2013, we have been applying Knox to our devices such as  mobile phones and tablets. In 2017, we found a solution to incor- porate Knox into Smart TVs and household appliances.  
In May 2019, the Gartner report on security controls rated Knox  as  Strong  for 27 features across 30 key security features. Also,  the solution has successfully achieved certifications and secu- rity requirements by governments and security organizations  around the world. We have been certified by FIPS 140-2, US  Department of Defense (DOD), NCSC (U.K. National Cyber Secu- rity Center), ANSSI (Agence nationale de la s curit  des sys- t mes d'information of France), and ISCCC (the International  Safe Community Certifying Centre). 
Cybersecurity 
To protect consumers from cybersecurity threats, we not only  comply with international laws and regulations, but also make  substantial investments to maintain the highest level of secu- rity for our products and services. 
Samsung Knox  Samsung Knox is our defense-grade security platform. Knox  consists of a highly secure multi-layered platform built into  Samsung Electronics devices across hardware and software,  and it ensures data protection from malware and malicious  threats. In addition, public and private sectors, such as govern- ments, financial institutions, and healthcare companies have  been leveraging our Knox platform as part of their security busi- ness solutions.  
Digital Responsibility 
Composition of Knox Platform 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 065 
Knox IT solutions leverage the Knox platform,  for end-to-end solutions, from configuration  and deployment, to management 
IT Solutions Developer Tool Personal App 
Build B2B apps on secure Samsung  Electronics devices with Knox developer  tools 
Samsung Knox to safeguard election integrity 
The election oversight agency of a Latin American coun- try needed a mobile solution to help employees transmit  vote counts from the country s voting districts. The solution  included the Knox Manage mobile device management (MDM)  solution, which enables the institution to lock down devices  and Knox Mobile Enrollment. The agency s major concern was  the security of sensitive data transmission. First, the agency  helped raise security standards for carriers to help ensure  transparency and minimize election fraud. To protect against  data leakage and hacking, the agency knew it also needed to  retain maximum control over all devices distributed. Based  on these requirements, Samsung solutions allowed IT admins  to be able to  restrict device usage, monitor and track devices  remotely, and simplify life cycle management. With our solu- tion, the agency received one-stop support when an issue was  raised in managing election data. In addition, they were able  to safeguard election integrity through the efficient and safe  management of data and devices. 
Knox Manage for faster delivery and cost saving 
Kazpost, which is national postal service in Kazakhstan selected  a comprehensive Samsung solution consisting of Samsung Knox  Manage EMM (Enterprise Mobility Management) solutions and  Samsung Galaxy smartphones for  saving delivery time and  cost. In particular, Knox Manage successfully digitalized the  postal service work process allowing remote management from  a central console. After applying Knox solutions, Kazpost was  able to improve their management in security perspective by  constantly monitoring for hacking, and preventing corporate  information leakage from their devices. 
Knox to verify system security and safeguard  data of Samsung Electronics apps 
To protect consumer privacy and personal data, we estab- lished  Samsung Electronics Global Privacy Policy  and operate  local policies that reflect relevant laws and regulations of each  country. We also provide our employees with a  Data Protection  Handbook  and the  Privacy Guideline for Third-party Agencies   to raise their awareness in privacy and personal data protec- tion. Moreover, we consistently provide education so as to man- age these policies to be practically and continuously reflected in  employees  daily tasks. Each year all of our employees including  top management mandatorily receive privacy and personal data  protection education, and new employees receive additional  course on compliance. In particular, we provide offline courses  for employees who are to treat personal data at their daily tasks.  
Privacy and Personal Data Protection 
Personal Data Management Process 
Organizations and Committees for Privacy and Personal Data Protection 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
   Establish strategies and polices  to protect privacy, develop rele- vant processes    Provide legal advice and sup- port on privacy issues     Examine and take anticipa- tory measures to monitor and  prevent the security issues of  products and services     Provide employee training to  raise awareness 
The Global Privacy Office and  other relevant departments  have established a privacy  policy, personal data processing  outsourcing guidelines, and a  data breach response process. 
Global Privacy   Office 
Establish   Policy and   Guide 
066 Sustainability Pillars 
Technology for Good 
   Conduct audits and training on  the privacy programs of busi- ness divisions 
   Report and follow up in a  prompt manner when an issue  arises 
We monitor trends in domestic  and international privacy and  personal data protection at all  times and prepare response  plans to comply with newly  enacted or modified laws  regulations. Also, to increase  employee awareness of data  protection, we provide general  training for all employees and  specialized training relevant for  specific job characteristics. 
Privacy Offices   in Business Divisions Privacy Officer   in Regional Offices Privacy Steering   Committee 
Trend   Monitoring and  Training 
   Conduct audits and training  on privacy programs of the  concerned regional offices and  subsidiaries 
   Report and follow up in a  prompt manner when an issue  arises 
We run diverse privacy and  personal data protection  programs to fulfill the  responsibility as a data controller  and processor.  
Footnote: 1) Scope: Employees in Korea 
Number of Employees who have completed personal data  management training1) 
We are continuously seeking for the best ways to reduce risks  associated with privacy and personal data protection.  
2018 83,175 
2016 72,557 
2017 80,030 
Operate  Management  Process 
   Make decisions on policies and  protection measures associated  with privacy and personal data  protection 
   Discuss measures and share  issues on privacy and personal  data protection by products and  business div 
We annually conduct data  protection compliance audits  on our products and services.  We subsequently correct system  flaws in accordance with the  audit results. 
Conduct Audit  and Improve  System Flaws 
Unit: No. of persons 
Privacy Legal Management System (PLMS) Operation In order to comply with global regulations regarding personal  data and privacy from the development stage of products and  services, Samsung Electronics operates a Privacy Legal Man- agement System (PLMS) in conjunction with the Product Lifecy- cle and R D management system (PLM). We assess the poten- tial risks throughout the lifecycle of products and services  from  planning, development, operation and to discontinuation- by  utilizing personal data and privacy risk checklists. The check- lists are then reviewed by dedicated personnel from our legal   department. 
Global Regulatory Status and Our Efforts for Compliance 
Footnotes: 1) Lei Geral e  nica de Prote  o de Dados (General Data Protection Law) 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 067 
GDPR ('18.5 Implemented)  
   Enhancing corporate  responsibility and governance 
   Expanding the rights of  personal data subject and  imposing strong sanctions 
Cybersecurity Law ('17.6 Implemented)    
  Details to be announced   
Personal Information Security  Specification ('18.5 Implemented)  
   Secure the rights for data subject and to  establish responsible departments   
   Corporates to distribute checklists and  post personal privacy and personal   data collection history 
LGPD   (Brazil GDPR)   ('20.8 Expected)  
  Similar to EU GDPR   
  Approved by the president in '18.8 
Efforts for Global Regulatory Compliance To ensure that our products and services do not violate any laws  or regulations of each country, we monitor laws and regulations  on personal data protection around the world. To comply with  EU GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) implemented  in May 2018, our worksites in the EU region have been estab- lishing relevant organizations, policies, protection procedures  while enhancing IT system that can reinforce personal data  subject s rights as stated in regulations. In China, Brazil, and  the US, we have established dedicated departments in accor- dance with the relevant laws, and have established a system  that can safely process and transfer data. We also established a  system to ensure that the personal data subject can exercise his  or her rights properly, and are reviewing relevant policies and   processes. 
California consumer privacy Act  ('20.1 Expected)  
   Protecting consumers  rights in  relation to personal data and privacy 
Accessibility 
We are continuously striving to improve accessibility of our  products and services to serve the needs of our consumers.  We apply  4C Accessibility Design Principles  to all our prod- ucts, content and services in order to carefully consider the wide  range of users  experience. 
To develop products and services reflecting these principles,  we have devel oped and distributed an Accessibility UX Design  Guideline and an Accessibility UX Design Checklist across the  company. 
Samsung Electronics  4C Accessibility Experience Design Principles 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
Design carefully and consider of  user s point of view Design for all equally Design that provides the same  accessibility to all products Design created jointly with  users 
Audio Acordes 
In 2018, Samsung Electronics Brazil launched Samsung Audio  Acordes (Chords), a free application that helps people with low  vision learn to play the guitar in a practical and intuitive way. 
The application provides the function of an audio dictionary  that teaches people how to play a chord if they have low vision  and helps allow for learning of music for such users. We hope  that all people can enjoy music regardless of any physical dis- abilities. 
Considerate Comprehensive Coherent Co-create 
068 Sustainability Pillars 
Technology for Good 
SeeColors Application 
We apply a SeeColors application to our TV models, which  checks color blindness and adjusts the screen so that those  users who have difficulty detecting colors are able to see the  colors expressed on TV properly. 
When this set of users perform a SeeColors application, the  app chekcs color blindness of 10 different types. Based on the  result, the SeeColors application adjusts the color expression of  the TV to suit the user. 
Accessibility Sound Improvements 
We conducted user studies with 12 people with poor vision  to enhance product accessibility of our home appliances. We  learned from the study that for such users, auditory informa- tion should be complemented with sound signals different in  tone. Based on this feedback, we established the Accessibility  Sound UX principle and developed and reflected the sounds in  the home appliances to enhance accessibility. 
In conventional washing machines, distinguishing different  options of the buttons was difficult because the sound signals  were the same. So we developed different sounds to enable  the people with low vision to clearly recognize options of the  washing machine only by the sounds. As a result we received  positive feedbacks from people with low vision that now it was  possible to distinguish different options of when setting the  temperature or the washing mode. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 069 
Samsung Electronics Product s Accessibility 
Home  Appliance 
Family   Hub 
    Screen Reader   Provide spoken feedback to help users with  low vision or blindness 
   Provide high contrast theme font  keyboard, show button shapes, negative  colors, color lens, magnifier window,  magnifier widget features 
    Direct Access    Provide quick turn on and off of accessibility features     Notification Reminders   Alert notifications that has not been checked with pre-set intervals 
    Screen Reader   Provide spoken feedback to help users with  low vision or blindness 
   Provide greyscale, negative colors, dark  screen and screen magnification   reduction 
    Voice Guide   TV menu and operation voice guidance 
    Audio Description  Provide by many television programs,  whereby an additional audio track  is broadcast which provides a verbal  description of the scene to aid  understanding 
    Learn Remote Control   Remote control learning support through  voice guidance 
    Learn Menu Screen   Guide on how to use TV through voice  guidance 
   SeeColors  For color blind people to see wide spectrum  of colors 
   High Contrast, Enlarge, Grayscale, Color  Inversion 
    Accessibility Shortcuts   One-touch route to an on-screen menu which allows you to view or adjust the status of the TV s Accessibility features. 
   Home Appliances Common Feature  Accessibility Sound     Washing Machines   Using  Add Window  when adding more  laundry is possible to use it with less effort 
    Screen Reader   Provide spoken feedback to  help users with poor vision or  blindness 
   Descriptive Video Service   Function to receive contextual  information on the screen  through subtitles 
   Grayscale, Negative Color,  Font Size  
Visibility Assistant Hearing Assistant Assistant for Physical Motor Limitations 
    Closed Caption Position   Move the subtitles to prevent overlap with  the screen text 
    Multi-Output Audio   Flexibility to configure the TV audio  directed to multiple users allowing  independent volume control 
    Sign Language Zoom   Enlarging the sign language window 
    Sound Detectors   Sound detectors allow the device to detect  the sound of a baby crying or a doorbell  ringing. Notification will be given through  visual cues and vibration 
    Hearing Aid Support    Enhance the sound quality to work better  with hearing aids 
    Left   Right Sound Balance     Adjust the left right sound balance to suit  your hearing preferences 
    Notification Reminders   Set the device to alert you to notifications  that you have not checked at your pre-set  intervals 
   Mute All Sounds, Speech-to-text 
   Provide time notifications with vibration,  turn off all sounds, and provide alert  reminder 
    Closed Caption (Subtitle)   Provide for almost all TV programs.  Dialogue is visually displayed as text on   the TV screen. 
    Closed Caption (Subtitle)   Function to output subtitle information  by receiving them from a broadcasting  company 
    Universal Switch   Control the touchscreen by connecting  an external switch, by tapping the screen,  or by using head movements and face  gestures 
    Assistant Menu     Show the assistive shortcut icon for  accessing apps, features, and settings.   You can easily control your phone by  tapping the assistive menus in the icon 
    Interaction Control    Turn on interaction control mode to  restrict your phone s sensitivity to touch  interaction whilst using apps 
   Tap Duration, Ignore Repeated Touches,  Easy Screen Turn On, Single Tap to Swipe 
    Remote Button Repeat Settings   Prevent malfunctions by delaying remote  control input time 
    Refrigerator     Easy Handle  on the door allows the users  to open the door with less effort 
    Accessible Screen    Function that allows the screen to be  scrolled down at a rate of 10 to 50% of the  total screen, which is effective for children  and wheelchair users 
   Side Navigation  The screen can be adjusted up and down so  that it is easier to operate the screen 
   Bixby  All the contents provided from the  refrigerator are able to be voice-controlled  through voice commands 
   Data Analysis      On-Device AI      Visual Understanding 
We understand that as AI technologies evolve, ethical consider- ations, including potential impacts on human rights, need to be  inherent in the design and deployment of AI products and ser- vices. In this respect, we have announced the core principles of  Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency for AI ethics in 2019.  We will make every effort to place these ethical principles at  the heart of what we do and how we do our work in AI, dictating  every decision throughout the entire process from development  to rollout of our products and services.  
Furthermore, we will increase the importance of AI ethics  through various means including internal guidelines and educa- tional programs for employees aimed at raising awareness and  to hold ourselves to a higher standard with regards to AI ethics. 
Responsible Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Samsung Electronics sells over half a billion devices globally  every year, giving us the ability to connect AI services across our  extensive and unrivaled portfolio. We are uniquely positioned  to bring a truly connected AI experience because of its diverse  product portfolio, from semiconductors to home appliances and  network equipment. 
We believe AI should provide meaningful value, for the good of  humanity. So, we are striving to build user-based AI products  and services based on our AI principles of  User Centric ,  Always  Learning ,  Always There ,  Always Helpful , and  Always Safe .   
Efforts towards AI Ethics We recognize that discussions on a global scale with industry  peers are essential to determine the appropriate and ethical  use of AI. With the aim to better understand the impact of AI and  
Global Samsung Electronics AI Centers   Key Resarch Domains 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
   Machine Learning      Visual Understanding 
070 Sustainability Pillars 
Technology for Good 
    Head Center 
SEOUL   SAMSUNG   RESEARCH AI CENTER 
   AI Interaction NEW YORK  
SILICON VALLEY  
to build and utilize AI technology in a collaborative manner as a  group, we have joined the Partnership on Artificial Intelligence  (PAI), a consortium on AI technology, in 2018. We are also par- ticipating in working groups of the PAI to research safer AI tech- nology with peers, and to formulate best practices. 
Capacity Building for AI R D We expect that technical robustness will play a key role in facil- itating our development of best practices in AI. As part of our  dedication to expanding the capabilities for AI research, we  have opened a series of global AI research centers. Starting with  establishment of AI center in Korea (Seoul), Samsung Electron- ics has established a total of 7 global AI centers in 5 countries,  including the UK (Cambridge), Canada (Toronto, Montreal), Rus- sia (Moscow), and the US (Silicon Valley, New York) in 2018.  
Since AI covers a very extensive range of research fields, open  cooperation on research with experts from various fields is  important. For this reason, we will continue to build open R D  to advance AI technology by establishing AI centers in cities  that have the best AI talent and technology in the world. 
We invest about 8 percent of its annual sales in R D and are one  of the largest R D spenders globally. A considerable portion of  this investment goes into the development of new technologies  like AI. 
   Robotics 
   Language Understanding,      Machine Learning 
   Visual Understanding      Multimodal 
Parental Control Function Samsung Kids Home on  Quick Panel 
Child Digital Safety   Samsung Kids Home 
Samsung Electronics is concerned about the increased risk of  children being exposed to harmful online content, especially  as the use of IT devices increases. So we are making an effort to  prevent such risks. We developed Samsung Kids Mode in 2014,  an application for safe digital contents on the internet for chil- dren. We expanded upon Kids Mode with Samsung Kids Home,  which offers better accessibility and ease of use in 2019.  
Samsung Kids Home is a service that protects children from  harmful information and helps them develop the right and  smart device use habits. Users can run Samsung Kids Home  with a single touch of the Quick Panel on their devices with- out downloading application. You can easily convert a parent s  phone into a child s phone, providing a secure digital play- ground. It also enables child protection by setting daily play  time, listing contacts and allowing kids access apps permit- ted by parents. It also provides various content such as cre- ative games, drawing, and block coding that will help children  develop their imaginations. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 071 
Safer Internet Day We supported  Safer Internet Day (SID)  in 2019. SID is an inter- national event that started as an initiative of the European  Union  SafeBorders  project. This event is now celebrated in  more than 100 countries worldwide, and across six continents. 
In 2019, our Samsung Electronics Baltic, Nordic, Poland and UK  offices actively supported SID, organizing workshops and rais- ing awareness about online safety through social media and  press releases. 
Partnership with Internet Matters To improve children s digital safety and parental access to infor- mation, Samsung Electronics in UK partnered with Internet Mat- ters. Internet Matters is a not-for-profit organization empower- ing millions of families to keep children safe online. Through the  partnership, we are ensuring that the most up-to-date and rele- vant information is provided to parents and care givers , aiming  to help children use Samsung Electronics products safely.  
Our joint micro-site with Internet Matters features step-by- step advice on setting up the parental controls across Samsung  products, including Samsung Kids Home. 
Prevention of Cyberbullying 
As the IT technologies rapidly evolve, we are fulfilling our  responsibility to help ensure that technology is used to further  society and its people. In  Samsung Electronics Guidelines on  the Prevention of Harassment , we define cyber-bullying as a  form of harassing behavior that aims to humiliate, intimidate, or  threaten through the use of electronics devices such as tablets,  computers and mobile phones. In addition, we have been run- ning campaigns to raise awareness on the prevention of cyber- bullying throughout our global operation sites. In particular, we  are engaged in various activities to minimize cyberbullying with  a particular focus on youth. 
Family approach to new technologies 
Samsung Electronics in Poland organized  Family approach to  new technologies  workshops, involving children and their par- ents in playful activities aimed at promoting the safe use of  new technologies. 
As part of the workshop, two handbooks have been created  to teach children the basics of programming and to develop  healthy digital habits within the family for the safe use of new  technologies. 
Don t be a Cyberbully! 
Samsung Electronics in Turkey is running a digital campaign to  eradicate cyberbullying among teenagers. 
We posted anti-cyberbullying materials on digital screens at  our service centers and retail-shops. In addition, we conducted  a program where our employees mentored Turkish students  and worked to prevent of cyberbullying. While closely coop- erating with governments, universities and schools, we have  contributed to enhancing the awareness on cyberbullying by  implementing various online campaigns through offline edu- cation and digital media. 
As a result, we received the MIXX Award Gold Award in Febru- ary 2018, the Social Media Gold Awards in April 2018 and won  the Turkey Best Social Responsibility Campaign Award in Octo- ber 2018. 
Employee Health Management   Programs - Ergonomic Line Certification Results 
Number of Employees on   Training Programs for Capacity  Building 
2018 HIGHLIGHTS 
2018 Green Line 
Unit : Score 
Samsung Culture   Index Score 
We put forward our best efforts and apply strict management standards to protect the labor and human rights of our employees and  
our suppliers' employees. Moreover, we have rigorous human resources management standards in place to strengthen employee  
competencies.  
To create a safety culture that meets global standards, we have embedded our environment, health, and safety (EHS) management  
system in our business strategy, with safety management being part of our management's performance targets. We also assess  
workplace safety and offer safety training programs to our employees. In addition, we undertake various safety initiatives by  
identifying safety issues and performing assessments at all our manufacturing sites. 
ALIGNMENT WITH SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 
[Goal 3] Ensure healthy  lives and promote well- being for all at all ages 
3.9  By 2030, substantially  reduce the number of deaths  and illnesses from hazardous  chemicals and air, water and  soil pollution and contami- nation 
[Goal 5] Achieve gender  equality and empower all  women and girls 
5.1  End all forms of discrimi- nation against all women and  girls everywhere 
5.5  Ensure women s full and  effective participation and  equal opportunities for lead- ership at all levels of decision  making in political, economic  and public life 
[Goal 8] Promote sustained,  inclusive and sustainable  economic growth, full and  productive employment and  decent work for all 
8.5  By 2030, achieve full and  productive employment and  decent work for all women and  men, including for young people  and persons with disabilities,  and equal pay for work of equal  value 
8.7  Take immediate and effec- tive measures to eradicate forced  labour, end modern slavery and  human trafficking and secure the  prohibition and elimination of  the worst forms of child labour,  including recruitment and use of  child soldiers, and by 2025 end  child labour in all its forms 
8.8  Protect labour rights and  promote safe and secure work- ing environments for all workers,  including migrant workers, in  particular women migrants, and  those in precarious employment 
[Goal 10] Reduce inequality  within and among countries 
10.2  By 2030, empower and  promote the social, economic  and political inclusion of all,  irrespective of age, sex, dis- ability, race, ethnicity, origin,  religion or economic or other  status 
At Samsung Electronics, throughout 2018  and 2019, we conducted a Human Rights  Impact Assessment (HRIA) for Samsung  Electronics Vietnam (SEV) in collabora- tion with Business for Social Responsibil- ity (BSR), a global non-profit organization  specializing in  human rights.  
Assessing human rights impacts is a step  in the due diligence process proposed  by the United Nations Guiding Principles  on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs)  to minimize human rights violations and  resolve their adverse impacts. In this  sense, we set the following goals of the  HRIA for assessing SEV s human rights  policy and management system:  
1) identifying factors that affect human  rights  2) making recommendations to  mitigate risks and maximize opportu- nities  and 3) improving human rights  management by empowering employ- ees and other stakeholders based on  constructive dialogue.  
Our Efforts to   Respect Human   Rights 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
074 Sustainability Pillars 
Investing in Our Employees 
To achieve these objectives, the BSR con- ducted the HRIA in line with the three  main parts of the UNGPs framework - Pro- tect, Respect, and Remedy. The assess- ment identified and prioritized actual and  potential adverse impacts, and proposed  measures for remedy. In addition, BSR s  assessment included external stakehold- ers interviews on-site at SEV, in Vietnam,  and globally, as well as an extensive doc- ument review and interview with employ- ees and management. 
To actively communicate and engage  with our stakeholders, we held a stake- holder engagement forum in Vietnam  with approximately 300 stakeholders.  Under the topic of  Gender Equality and  Integration in the Digital Era , we invited  the Vietnam General Confederation of  Labour, the International Labour Organi- zation (ILO), UN Women, the World Bank,  and other non-profit organizations, to  present and held panel discussions. The  forum enabled us to gather meaningful  perspectives from all relevant stake- holders on how to enhance human rights  as a member of the global community  and an industry leader. 
Moreover, we are implementing various  systems to improve our employees  wel- fare. To allow our employees to work in  safer conditions, we operates in-house  hospitals with a total of 93 hospital beds.  We are also operating 22 Mommy Room s  for expectant mother employees and  in-house hopital with gynaecologists. 
Going forward, we will continue our vari- ous activities to identify the characteris- tics that negatively affect human rights  and to develop appropriate mitigation  plans in order to ensure improvements  in our worksites  environment and the  protection of our employees  labor and  human rights. 
Footnote: 1) Strictly prohibited for use 2)  Should meet following conditions   Must receive permission before use   Prohibited in cleansing stages     Must be used observant of workplace regulations (e.g. Rules on Ventilation system, protective outwear, etc.) 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 075 
Transparency  in Chemicals  Management 
We work to safeguard our employees   health by minimizing the environmen- tal impacts of the materials and chemi- cals used at our manufacturing sites. We  firmly believe our employees involved in  any manufacturing process have the right  to work in an environment without any  safety concerns. 
All of our worksites are obliged to fol- low the European Union s (EU) Restric- 
Restricted Substances List (RSL)  
Prohibited  
Prohibited  
Restricted  
Restricted 
Restricted  
Restricted 
Restricted  
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Footnote: 1) Occupational Safety and Health Act in Korea 2) International Agency for Research on Cancer 
Dimethyl formamide  
Nitromethane 
Chloroform  
Cyclohexanone 
Dichloromethane 
Ethylene Oxide 
2-Methoxyethanol 
2-Methoxyethylacetate 
2-Ethoxyethanol 
2-Ethoxyethylacetate 
Formaldehyde 
Bis(2-Methoxyethyl)ether 
1,2-Dichloropropane 
1,3-Butadiene 
N,N-Dimethyl acetamide 
1-Bromopropane 
2-Bromopropane 
Acrylonitrile 
Vinyl Chloride 
All purposes  
All purposes  
Cleansing Degreasing  
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing  
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing  
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing Cooling 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Range of Restriction 
tion of Hazardous Substances Directive  (RoHS) and the EU s Registration, Eval- uation, Authorization and Restriction of  Chemicals (REACH) standards. We also  manage restricted substances strictly in  accordance with the applicable laws of  each relevant country and our internal   regulations.  
In 2018, we achieved a major milestone  in health and safety management trans- parency by publishing a Restricted Sub- stances List (RSL) of 11 hazardous sub- stances. We updated that list by adding 14  more substances in 2019, thereby disclos- ing a total of 25 hazardous substances. We  classify those substances into two types,  strictly banning the use of  prohibited     
Occupational Safety and Health Act   (Special C, M), IARC  ,   Company Standard 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Management R), EU Reproductive  Toxic Chemicals, Company Standard 
IARC(2A), EU Reproductive Toxic Chemicals(1B), Occupational Safety and  Health Act (Management R) 
IARC(2B), Occupational Safety and Health Act (Management C) 
IARC(2B), EU Reproductive Toxic Chemicals(1B), Occupational Safety and  Health Act (Management C,R) 
IARC, Occupational Safety and Health Act (Special C, M) 
EU Reproductive Toxic Chemicals, Occupational Safety and Health Act  (Management R) 
IARC(2A), Occupational Safety and Health Act (Special C) 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Management C) 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Management C) 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Management C), IARC(2A) 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Special Management C,M), IARC(1) 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Special Management R) 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Special Management R) 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Special Management R) 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Special Management R) 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Special Management C,M), IARC(1) 
EU Reproductive Toxic Chemicals(1B) 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Management C), IARC(1) 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Special Management C,R), IRAC(1) 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Special Management R) 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Special Management C,R), IRAC(2B) 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Special Management R) 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Special Management C), IRAC(2B) 
Occupational Safety and Health Act (Management C), IARC(1) 
Regulatory Standard  
substances at all times and allowing the  use of  restricted    materials only under  very strictly controlled conditions.  
We conduct a due diligence audit to  examine supplier practices regarding a  safe work environment. Through on-site  audits we provide solutions for the suppli- ers for improving their chemical manage- ment procedures and control systems. In  addition, we have supported suppliers'  chemical management improvement by  providing alternative chemical storage  facilities, providing spill palettes for leak  prevention and improving exhaust sys- tems. In 2019, we disclose the list of chem- ical substances that we prohibit or restrict  in our suppliers  manufacturing process. 
Samsung Electronics   Suppliers  
Samsung Electronics   Suppliers  
Samsung Electronics   Suppliers  
Samsung Electronics   Suppliers 
Samsung Electronics   Suppliers  
Samsung Electronics   Suppliers 
Samsung Electronics   Suppliers  
Samsung Electronics   Suppliers 
Samsung Electronics   Suppliers 
Samsung Electronics   Suppliers 
Samsung Electronics   Suppliers 
Samsung Electronics 
Samsung Electronics 
Samsung Electronics 
Samsung Electronics 
Samsung Electronics 
Samsung Electronics 
Samsung Electronics 
Samsung Electronics 
Samsung Electronics 
Samsung Electronics 
Samsung Electronics 
Samsung Electronics 
Samsung Electronics 
Samsung Electronics 
Samsung Electronics  labor   human rights policies embrace the  idea and value of international human rights principles and stan- dards set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the  UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs),  the guidelines from Organization for Economic Co-operation and  Development for multinational corporations, the UN Convention  on the Rights of the Child, the International Labour Organisation's  Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and  the laws of the countries where we conduct our business. Addi- tionally, we abide by the Code of Conduct of the RBA. All Sam- sung Electronics' employees must comply with diverse internal  policies regarding human rights, including bans on discrimina- tion, forced labor, and child labor. To manage such compliance,  
We are carrying out various activities to protect labor and human  rights throughout our operation and business activities. We  ensure equal opportunities for all employees and applicants with   Guidelines on the Prevention of Harassment . We endorse global  efforts to prevent child labor and forced labor. Respecting and  protecting human rights - the fundamental and inalienable rights  and freedoms to which all people are entitled - is at the core of  our labor practices.  
Samsung Electronics  Approach to the UNGPs  Human Rights Due Diligence 
Policy    Approach    
Human Capital Policies and Management System 
Actions            
Labor   Human Rights 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
Policy Commitment   Management  System 
The Samsung Electronics' Code of Conduct  and the Business Conduct Guidelines refer- ence our commitment to respect human rights  an ethical labor practices. 
We observe the Code of Conduct of RBA as a  member of the Responsible Business Alliance  (RBA).    
We support and strive to work in accordance  with the United Nations Guiding Principles on  Business and Human Rights. 
We have various internal policies and pro- cedures on human rights, human resources,  labor rights, and health and safety. These  policies and procedures are supplemented  by management systems and processes to  ensure their effective implementation. Their  effectiveness is frequently evaluated and  revised according to need. 
We provide training to raise awareness of  labor and human rights so that our policies  and procedures are thoroughly followed at  each business site. 
076 Sustainability Pillars 
Investing in Our Employees 
Impact Risk Analysis   Management  
We constantly identify, evaluate, and manage  the actual and potential impacts that our busi- ness activities have directly and indirectly on  human rights.  
We recognize that the internal capabilities  and management processes of enterprises are  critical to minimizing negative human rights  impacts.  
We continue to make sure that adverse  impacts on human rights are dealt with prop- erly and make further improvements.  
We have established a system for human  rights impact risk assessment and manage- ment in place, where compliance with human  rights policy and internal management is peri- odically assessed.  We also take into account  external factors and conduct separate assess- ments for high-risk situations.  
We identify vulnerable groups (such appren- tices and migrant workers) with whom human  rights issues may arise and pay close attention  to these groups.  
To actively remain in investing in human capital in response  global environmental changes, we have developed policies and a  management system associated with not only labor and human  rights but also human capital development. As part of our human  capital investments, in addition to policies and a management  system, we operate a human rights analysis system, educational  programs for raising employee awareness regarding human  rights, diversity and inclusion initiatives, and employee compe- tency reinforcement programs.  
we perform evaluations on a regular basis to identify the status  of compliance and design improvement activities of each work- place. 
Grievance Resolution Procedure In accordance with the 'Effectiveness criteria of non-judicial  grievance mechanisms' as implied in Clause 31 of the UN Guid- ing Principles on Business and Human Rights, we continuously  address ways to protect the substantive and procedural rights  of our employees. This includes providing accurate information  on the process and results of grievance management, prohib- iting disadvantaging those who submit grievances, and ban- ning discrimination when dealing with grievances. Based on the  Grievance Resolution Guideline, the company operates four types  of grievance-handling channels to suit characteristics of each  
We systematically communicate with internal  and external stakeholders, including employ- ees, through a variety of channels. 
As a member of various industry associations,  we periodically engages with various compa- nies to discuss the key industry-wide human  rights issues posed by external stakeholders.        
We operate various types of Grievance Resolu- tion Channels for our employees and external  stakeholders.  
Grievance Mechanisms   Stakeholder  Engagement 
Our employees are very important to us and  we strive to have an open dialogue with them  to understand their needs and concerns.  
The grievance resolution channel for our  employees and external stakeholders is a key  element of Samsung Electronics  human rights  activities and offers important information to  identify potential human rights impacts. 
Description    
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 077 
Data on Grievance Submissions (2018) 
Grievance Channels 
Employee Committee 14% 
Hot Line 17% 
Online 30% 
Offline 39% 
Type of Grievance No. of Grievances 
Labor conditions 
Work environment 
Personal relationships 
Health   Safety 
Change in business practice 
Organizational Change 
Harassment 
Discrimination 
Labor and Human Rights Capacity-Building Training To raise our employees  awareness regarding the labor and  human rights, we have developed regionally specialized train- ing programs that consider regional cultural characteristics for  overseas production worksites. We provide these training pro- grams for  employees as compulsory education courses. 
Labor and Human Rights Capacity-Building   Education Programs 
site. (As of April 2019, there were 30 business sites and 308 chan- nels) In addition, in 2018, we established an additional grievance  handling channel (civilsociety samsung.com) to listen to vari- ous voices of stakeholders. Since 2016, through the workplace  monitoring system, we have monitored and reported griev- ances by channel, grievance handling progress and processing  results  and we manage compliance rates by channel and ana- lyze employee satisfaction and awareness as performance indi- cators. In particular, our workplaces employing migrant work- ers provide information on grievance resolution channels in  their native languages to enhance their accessibility. In 2018, we  received a total of 12,814 grievance reports, out of which 12,779  reports (99.7%) were completely resolved within our grievance  handling deadline. 
All employees at our overseas production subsidiaries 
18 courses in a total of 6 domains, including ban on  discrimination, workplace harassment, personal data  protection and privacy, health and safety, diversity. 
Unit: No. of reports 
Total 12,814 
Footnote: 1) 87.8% of all employees (309,630) 
Work Council  To channel the voice of our employees, we operate work coun- cils in 48 global workplaces in accordance with the country's  laws and regulations as well as based on each business site's  characteristics. Our employees elect their representatives on  their own under the principle of direct, secret votes, and the rep- resentatives hold discussions or meetings with on-site work- ers more than once a week. In 2018, 1,180 discussions were  held and joined by a total of 17,256 employees. Our Work Coun- cils at respective worksites host regular meetings to consult on  such wide-ranging agendas issues as wages, labor conditions,  welfare, and other diverse issues related to the promotion of  employee rights. The results of the consultation are disclosed  to our employees via bulletin boards. In 2018, a total 3,027 of   items were raised through these forums globally, out of which  2,740 items (90.5%) were resolved. 
Work Councils by Region (2018) 
Southeast Southwest  Asia and Others 
Europe, North America,  Central Latin America 
Work Council Agenda in Worksites (2018) 
Wages   benefits  
Institution   system  
Organizational culture  
Work hours  
Infrastructure   
Environment   Safety  
Footnote: 1) Including redundancies 
Capacity building training to   
331 in-house trainers 
Reach 95% or higher in the percentage of employees who com- plete such training, including our policy to respect human rights  and in-house grievance-handling channels as part of the com- pulsory introductory training for new recruits 
No. of Work   Councils 
3 hours training per employee  for 155,505 employees 
No. of Employee   Representatives 
Unit: No. of Items, %  
No. of   Members 
271,874    
Risk Identification We operate a worksite monitoring system, where we regularly  evaluate compliance management levels and improvement  activities at each worksite, and a risk analysis system, where we  assess various internal and external indicators to identify fac- tors that could adversely affect human rights. 
Vulnerable Groups  Rights Protection We have established various policies for a number of vulnerable  groups such as children, apprentices and migrant workers, whose  human rights are vulnerable and repeatedly in need of protection.  
Samsung Electronics  Policies for Vulnerable Groups Protection 
Child Labor   Prohibition Policy 
Migrant Worker  Guidelines  
Guidelines for  Apprenticeships 
Juvenile Worker   Policy  
Student Worker Policy 
Labor and Human Rights Risk Management 
Human rights risks need a comprehensive, systematic approach.  As such, the working-level experts and executives of our five  business divisions (Human Resources Team, Legal Team, Partner  Collaboration Center, Global Public Affairs Team and Global EHS  Center) have operated the Global Labor Issue (GLI) Committee  biweekly to discuss the relevant issues. Furthermore, material  issues will be elevated to the Sustainability Council, which key  executives are participating in, for discussion and will be reported  to the top management.  
Risk Identification 
Risk Identification  System Worksite  Monitoring System  
Worksite Risk  Analysis System         
Employee Communication  
Networking  with External  Stakeholders 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
Descriptions  
Conduct a monthly assessment of compliance  management and improvement activities  55 assessment items in 7 areas in 12 languages,  including English, Chinese, Vietnamese, and Spanish Monthly external internal risk assessments A total of 53 indicators analysis     - 32 internal management indicators, such        as working environment, working conditions,         workforce operation and systems     -  21 external environmental indicators of the country  where our worksite is located   Operate internal grievance resolution channels Regular meetings and interviews with the executives,  managers, and employee representative bodies   Identify various risk factors and problems that may  arise in global worksites through networks such as  governments, NGOs, and academia 
Description 
Prohibition of child labor and implement remedies  for victims  
Prohibition of forced labor (imposing recruitment  fees, collecting identity card)   and human trafficking 
Provide job training that is suitable for  apprenticeship purposes  
Protect juvenile workers based on their physical  and emotional status (Restrict  from dangerous or hazardous jobs) 
Provide jobs relevant to their learning purposes 
078 Sustainability Pillars 
Investing in Our Employees 
Risk Assessment 
Every year, we identify our priorities for risk assessment  and  capacity building in the areas of labor and human rights, as well  as environment, health and safety based on registered data  from our worksites monitoring system and risk analysis system.  For the selected worksites, we provide annual labor and human  rights expert consultations.  
In 2018, seven worksites conducted such consultations includ- ing two in China, two in Vietnam, and one in Europe. A total  of 154 improvement tasks were identified, of which 115 tasks  (74.7%) were completed.  
To improve the management capacity of overseas worksites,  each business division conducts a special diagnosis, including  management of working hours and protection of employees  of vulnerable classes. Reviews are conducted by external third  party specialized organizations upon request from customers.  
Samsung Electronics Expert Consulting Process (Assessment) 
Diagnosis Steps 
1)  RBA Auditors who have completed 'RBA Labor   Ethics Lead Auditor  Training' and other global labor and human rights experts 
2)  51 items in the fields of labor human rights, health and safety,  environment, business ethics. 
3)  27 items in human rights, legal compliance, and etc., 41 items in  communication, human resource policy, and employee representative  body, and etc., 10 items in infrastructure, and 10 items classified as  'others' 
   Select 6 experts   on global labor and  human rights for each business division  Organize an  audit team 
Select audit  targets 
Follow-up  manage- ment 
Self-diag- nosis 
On-site  audits 
Descriptions 
   The inspection criteria consist of a total of 139  items, including RBA-based items   and self-in- spection items   
   Share the inspection results with the worksite man- agement    Establish future improvement plans and measures  to prevent recurrence within one week of inspection    Implementing improvement tasks by organizing an  expert Task Force such as personnel and environ- mental safety    Management of monthly progress of improvement  tasks through the worksite monitoring system 
   Conduct a self-diagnosis of compliance manage- ment on the worksite based on the inspection  checklist 
   2 to 3 worksites are selected every quarter that  showed increased risk of human rights impact in  the worksite monitoring system and risk analy- sis system 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 079 
Through these assessments, we put forward our best efforts to  enhance the working conditions of overseas worksites.  We do  this by organizing and maintaining a variety of policies for our  operation as well as enhancing grievance mechanism and busi- ness partner management standards. Moreover, we provide edu- cations to our employees on human rights, RBA Code of Conduct,  internal guidelines, and grievance handling procedures. 
Diversity   Inclusion (D I) 
Our D I vision is to create a future by developing a diverse and  inclusive culture that attracts and grows the world s top talent.  We seek to achieve the vision by implementing policies and pro- grams to support our business and employees, focusing on such  universal elements of diversity as gender, age, and culture. To  
Global D I Initiatives 
North  America 
RBA On-site Audits 
As a member of RBA, a global coalition devoted to corporate  social responsibility, Samsung Electronics is applying RBA  Code of Conduct to manage the work environment of global  worksites and suppliers. RBA on-site audit is an audit process  designed  to identify work environment-related risks and drive  improvement measurements in the areas of labor, health    safety, environment, business ethics, and business systems. 
In 2018, we collaborated with an RBA-certified agency to assess  compliance with local labor laws and RBA assessment stan- dards at eleven production sites in eight countries in Europe,  Latin America and Asia according to RBA standards. Two  worksites in Brazil, one in China and one in Korea have achieved  Platinum, the highest level of recognition in a VAP audit. 
US, Canada  
South Africa 
Female Leadership  Development 
D I Education 
Recruitment  
D I Training Curriculum  Development 
Cultural Intelligence  
Recruitment 
D I Fundamentals  
Cultural Intelligence 
Highlighted Initiative 
Held 'Seoul Sisters Conference' annually to encourage female employees and  provide them with opportunities 
Provided diversity and inclusion (D I) education to more than 4,000 employees 
Improved the recruitment process to be more inclusive towards applicants with  cognitive or physical motor limitations 
Hosted a global team of content creators and D I advisors from 13 countries to  continue development of global D I training courses 
Created a community to provide employees and leaders  with the opportunities to learn from each other across functional areas 
Improved the recruitment process regarding D I  
Incorporated D I coaches into the business and organization to support cultural,  generational, and gender issues 
Celebrated events to highlight women and minorities 
that end, Samsung Electronics offices around the world have  designed region-specific initiatives based on their diversity  interest and cultural priorities in alignment with our global D I  vision. 
Training Curriculum for Fostering Diversity   Inclusion Culture 
Learning   Development Structure to Foster Diversity    Inclusion We have established and provided learning and development  programs to successfully cultivate and maintain diversity and  inclusion within our corporate culture as employees are per- forming daily tasks. In order to do so, we assess our worksites   needs for diversity and inclusion, while encouraging our  employees all around the globe to participate in learning and  development programs for diversity and inclusion. 
Recognize the idea  and importance  of D I 
Introduction   to D I 
Build   Awareness 
Discover and uti- lize diversity at  personal organiza- tional level 
Fundamentalsl   of D I 
Inclusive   Leadership 
D I Team   Dynamics 
Reframe   Mindset 
Improve key skills and  strategically implement  them 
Cultural Intelligence 
Generational Cohesion 
Women   Leadership 
Equitable Leadership 
Millennials in   Leadership 
Life Design Training      
Job Posting      
Career Consulting Center 
STaR Session1)   HR Fair      
Investing in Our Human Capital 
Employee Competency Development Programs in Korea 
Footnote: 1) Samsung Talent Review Session 
Samsung Culture Index (SCI) The SCI survey is a survey conducted every year with the aim of  identifying company strengths and areas for improvement of  our corporate culture among all of our employees. More than  280,000 employees from 130 subsidiaries participated in the  annual survey in 2018. 
At Samsung Electronics, we conduct the survey focusing on five  categories-Work Smart, Think Hard, Build Trust, Leadership  and Policy- which are the core elements of our 2020 vision of  'Inspire the World, Create the Future'. 
Since the introduction of this index in 2012, comprehensive  employee satisfaction has risen every year, with the over- 
SCI Result Participation Rate Unit : % 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
5 Points Increased 
Description 
STaR Session is a comprehensive talent development process designed to support our employees in charting their career paths  with their leaders. Based on each employee's job competency modeling results, STaR Session offers a variety of development  opportunities encompassing job training and academic training programs including MBA degrees that can be customized to  each participant s career stage and development needs. 
Our employees are provided with opportunities to move to different positions within the company through our Job Posting  program, which is available upon needs. This program follows a systematic in-house process including posting jobs, receiving  applications, screening papers, and interviewing the applicants. Over the past three years, a total of 2,120 employees were able  to move to their desired positions through the Job Posting program. 
Since 2001, we have provided retirees, as well as current employees, with opportunities to start anew in order to prepare for  future career. We have supported programs such as career consulting for current employees, life designing consulting for retir- ees, career change training and external job matching. 
Among approximately 7,100 employees received the assistance  a total of 6,187 employees have been able to successfully begin  new careers since the establishment of the Center. 
This course allows our employees to plan their future in preparation for an extended retirement age and aging society. Each year,  eligible employees are offered an opportunity to self-reflect and ponder over what they would like their life after retirement to  look like. The course aims to help employees remain productive at work while effectively dealing with the anxiety associated  with their respective life career stages. It also represents another way that we fulfill our corporate social responsibility.  
080 Sustainability Pillars 
Investing in Our Employees 
all score for the 2018 global SCI result at 87 points, which is 5  points higher than in 2017. The score means that 87 percent of  global Samsung Electronics employees are satisfied with our  corporate culture. 
Number of worksites and  participants for SCI (2018) 
Numbs of   worksites 
Participants 
Average 90% 
Productions 
Unit: No. of worksites     No. of participants 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 081 
Health and Safety in Our Operation 
Occupational Health and Safety 
Samsung Safety Culture Assessment (SSCA) We assess the level of safety culture at our domestic and global  worksites to identify the safety awareness of our employees  and to establish an advanced safety culture in our operation.  In 2018, we evaluated the safety culture of all production sites  in Korea (including suppliers in our worksites) and 24 overseas  production subsidiaries, covering a total of 148,000 employees  in the assessment.   
The assessment focused on top management s commitment  roles responsibilities, risk management, communication par- ticipation, environmental safety capabilities, compliance with  regulations, cause analysis corrective actions, monitoring, and  performance management. 
Building a Safe Environment 
Accident Prevention Processes We regularly conduct safety training in order to identify poten- tial safety issues arising from aging equipment and to elimi- nate risk factors caused by failure to adhere to safety require- ments. Once we discover potential risk factors, we formulate  improvement measures and eliminate environment safety risks  through continuous monitoring. 
As a result of our proactive efforts to establish a safety culture,  our safety awareness level improved more than 9% in 2018,  when compared with 2017. Based on these assessment results,  we plan to strengthen safety culture communication with our  
employees. 
Accident Prevention Process 
 Major Improvement Activities in 2018 
As part of major activities in the accident prevention process,  we have improved our fire safety practices. We are replacing  our carbon dioxide extinguishing system with a clean gaseous  agent system. The new system has reduced the risk of suffoca- tion during a gas leakage. We also received consulting for fur- ther improvement in our extinguishing systems. By renovating  aging facilities, we expect to prevent any fire protection-re- lated accidents effectively in the future. 
Identification of Risk Factors    Old facilities    Non-compliance with safety regulations    Lack of proper on-site management 
Setting Countermeasures    Estimate the life span of facilities    Set measures to comply with safety regulations    Re-examine on-site management system 
Improvement Improvement    Monitor facilities    Offer safety training    Perform on-site audits 
Monitoring    Evaluate perfomance    Rules and processes 
EHS staffs    
Accident Response Procedure 
EHS Drill and Education We regularly conduct emergency drills in preparation of emer- gency situations. The drills include preparation for fire escape,  earthquake response, chemical leakage response and hands-on  fire drill. In 2018, emergency drills were undertaken on 1,169  occasions, and each of our employees attended an average of 2  drills. Regular drills under diverse emergency scenarios by acci- dent type enable us to continually monitor and verify the effec- tiveness of our emergency response system. In addition, in 2018,  we provided fire safety education to employees of our suppliers.  Our average per-capita training hours last year amounted to 19.3  hours. 
Accident Response Procedures We strive to minimize damage from an accident by establishing accident response procedures. In addition to a recovery plan, we ana- 
lyze the cause of the accident and establish plans to prevent any recurrence of the accident. 
Strengthening EHS Capacity  
EHS Education for Employees 
Employees  
Employees at overseas  production sites 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
   Brief on situation  
   Identify the type  and risk level of the  accident 
Accidents  occurence 
Descriptions 
Introductory courses, legally mandated standard courses,  safety leadership courses for executives 
In-house examiner courses, professional licensing courses  (such as master craftsmen and engineer.), refresher  and  extension courses 
Global EHS Conference, key leader courses, sewage waste- water treatment specialist in regional training courses 
   Organize an emer- gency management  committee 
   Take emergency  evacuation first aid  action 
082 Sustainability Pillars 
Investing in Our Employees 
Emergency  Response 
   Analyze the cause of  the accident through  an investigation 
Accident  Investigation 
Experiential Emergency Drill 
We provide various experiential training programs on emer- gency evacuation in order to improve employees  ability to  quickly respond to emergency situations. In particular, in con- sideration of the situations that could occur in real life, we pro- vided comprehensive education on cardiopulmonary resuscita- tion, fire extinguisher, fire hydrant, descending life line, and air  mattress, as well as the experiential training related to earth- quake, which have recently occurred more frequently in Korea. 
Achievement in 2018 
Total 5,311,635 hours of training were conducted, com- pleted by 524,790 employees 
Total 62,360 hours of training were offered, completed  by 11,537 employees  
Total 3,163,648 hours of training were offered, com- pleted by 197,769 employees 
   Set and implement  recovery plans 
   Execute business  continuity plans 
Recovery  Action 
   Set plans to prevent  reoccurrence 
   Review the effective- ness of the accident  response system 
Reoccurrence  Prevention 
Excellent Worksite  Benchmarking    
Innovation Practice  Exhibition    
EHS Innovation Day Programs 
Classification 
Special Lectures on  Safety Culture    
Presentation of Best  Practices    
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 083 
EHS Innovation Day To improve our EHS capabilities, we have held an EHS Innova- tion Day in Korea since 2013, and in Vietnam and China since  2017. Starting in 2018, we expanded the event globally to  include Southeast Asia and Latin America. This global event has  boosted the safety awareness of our top management as well  as our employees, spreading a safety culture at our worksites.  At the event, we also hold an EHS Supplier Day where we share  our best practices with our suppliers. The suppliers also share  their successful improvement activities. In order to enhance the  health and safety capability of each business, we are expanding  the event In line with the characteristics of the each business. 
Expansion of EHS Innovation Day 
In March 2019, along with our affiliates including Samsung Dis- play, Samsung SDI, Samsung Electro-Mechanics, and Samsung  BioLogics, Samsung Electronics held  2019 EHS Innovation  Day  at the Hwasung worksite to strengthen our EHS capabil- ities. 
At the event, the Environmental Safety Ten Rules were adopted  as a new guideline. About 100 top managements and execu- tives of our affiliates gathered to reinforce their commitment to  strengthen safety at their operation. In addition, we shared our  know-how by presenting expert lectures on how to build inno- vative and safe worksites and introduced examples of excellent  innovation in each affiliate s environmental safety field. 
Key Features 
Exhibiting best practices selected from  on-site improvement activities conducted at  Samsung Electronics  global manufacturing  sites and at suppliers last year 
Providing various best practices in safety  where attendees at the event can find  benchmarks and apply best practices to their  facilities  
Inviting lecturers from companies with  advanced EHS management to introduce  risk practices to overcome risks and share  the importance of safety culture 
Having a best worksite practice contest to  provide a learning opportunity for employ- ees through the presentation of final  selected practices 
Safety Inspection with Drones In order to prevent dangerous situations during a safety inspec- tion of worksites, drones are used to inspect high-risk locations  and facilities, such as airways, electrical facilities, building roofs.  We have verified their effectiveness after introducing them to  worksites in Korea in 2018, and we are planning to apply drone  inspection in overseas worksites as well. 
Employee Health Management System Our employee health management system consists of three fac- tors: work environment, health care, and disease prevention.  In addition, the system includes providing health check-ups to  employees and studying harmful musculoskeletal factors in the  work environment. 
Health Management System 
Disease Prevention    Monitor infectious diseases and explain   prevention rules    Operate in-house health clinics : Vaccination  against influenza, hepatitis, and others    Health care for employees on business trips :   Manage the list of countries where travel is  restricted or prohibited, and offer household  medicines 
Health Care   Provide health check-ups    Operate in-house fitness facilities :   Fitness gyms, musculoskeletal fitness centers    Health care programs : Anti-smoking   moderate  drinking campaigns, taking the stairs campaign,  healthy meals 
Work Environment    Measure risk factors in the work environment    Study harmful musculoskeletal factors    Undertake No odor   Dust   Noise initiatives 
Health Campaigns For all employees, we have conducted several health campaigns, such  as Walking Campaign using the Samsung Health App and No Smok- ing Drinking.  
Health Management Council In July 2017, through our  Health Culture  initiative, led by the  Health Management Office with top executives from the Human  Resources, General Affairs and EHS teams, we promoted a  revamped focus on health of employees. As a result of this  effort, the number of employees with a health risk in 2018 was  50% lower than in 2017. 
Major activities of Health Management Council 
3-Care Comprehensive Management We conduct tri-fold  3-Care  comprehensive management system. The  EHS team strengthens our face-to-face medical consultation policy and  provide a health care program. The HR team improves the working envi- ronment (working hours, late-night work) and provide customized work  out opportunities and healthy menus. The head of each department  conducts personal health-related interviews and adjusts workloads. 
BOOST Solution Health Management Council introduced  BOOST solution , which stands  for Burn out, Obesity, Overdrink, Smoking, and Take-care group. Under the  solution, employees with one of the 4 high-risk health issues are selected  as a  Take-care group  to receive a special attention. 
Employees with High-risk of Cardiovascular Diseases We identify and support employees with high-risk of cardiovascular dis- ease based on blood pressure and obesity levels found in employees'  health examination results. 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
Mediation and Compensation on Occupational Disease 
In November 2018, Samsung Electronics accepted a settlement  plan recommended by the Mediation Committee, a third party  committee formed to oversee the mediation process to resolve  claims regarding health issues of employees of Samsung s semi- conductor production lines. 
The Mediation Committee was launched in December 2014, and  with the proposal of the Family Committee, former Supreme Court  Justice and lawyer Ji-Hyung Kim (who specializes in labor law)  became the head of the Mediation Committee. Since then, the  Mediation Committee has led the mediation among stakeholders. 
In accordance with the Mediation Committee s compensation  guidelines and details to be set forth and operated by a third- 
084 Sustainability Pillars 
Investing in Our Employees 
party compensation committee, Samsung committed to starting  the compensation process in 2018 and continuing it until 2028. In  addition, Samsung expressed its regret to the aggrieved employ- ees and families for not having responded in a timelier manner  and has pledged KRW 50 billion to the Korea Occupational Safety  and Health Agency for research in improving the health of workers  in the electronics industry.  
Although it is very difficult to establish the causal relationship  between the workplace environment and the contracted illnesses,  Samsung has unconditionally accepted the resolution from the  Mediation Committee because it was willing to do what was best  for alleviating the pain of the grieving families.  
Samsung will continue its efforts to provide a safe and healthy  workplace. 
Ergonomic Management 
Ergonomic Line Certification 
To manage our employees  health, we have introduced an  Ergo- nomic line certification  that evaluates overseas worksites'  operational level by calculating a percentage after the ergonomic  assessment of manufacturing processes. For this system, we con- duct REBA (Rapid Entire Body Assessment) to evaluate and man- age the line certification for each process with G-EHS system. In  total, 1,589 certifications were completed in 2018 with 81 percent  meeting Green Line standards, which is the recognition for the  highest level of ergonomic excellence. 
Initiation of Robotic Automation 
We are implementing robotic automation to guarantee  employee safety and enable  Smart Safety Management   in connection with Smart Factory and IoT. We reviewed and  selected the processes that can cause worker s musculoskeletal  pain in the production process and replaced them with robots.  In 2018, we reviewed our production processes, and found a  total of 48 tasks that need to be improved. We have designed  and applied robots for each task. A total of 17 tasks were auto- mated in 2018. 
Footnote: 1)Preliminary review: Performed based on Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS), chemical warranty letters, and letters of confirmation (LOC) 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 085 
Workplace Chemical Management  
Chemical Management To ensure the safety of the chemical substances we use, we have  developed chemical handling safety measures following EHS  expert diagnosis and implementing such measures. We also pro- vide regular training for employees who handle chemicals as well  as routinely inspect chemical storage and handling facilities.  We  adopt a three-phase management approach: developing substi- tute materials, reducing the concentration of chemicals used and  discontinuing their use.  
Chemicals Management Process We manage chemicals through a system which covers data  from all stages of our chemical management process start- ing from the substance purchase stage up to the final disposal  stage. At every worksite, our employees are required to per- form a preliminary evaluation of the chemical prior to purchase.  In addition, chemicals must meet our stringent assessment  standards in order to be registered and eligible for use at our  worksites. In 2018, we carried out a total of 4,837 evaluations.  After use, chemical waste goes through our chemical waste  treatment procedures, designed prevent accidents. 
Integrated Chemicals Monitoring System We have developed an integrated monitoring system that helps  us to govern our environmental facilities, chemical-handling  facilities and disaster control facilities. Through this system, we  can check the status of chemical supply and treatment facilities,  and take emergency response in connection with damage pre- vention facilities upon the occurrence of emergency. 
Chemical Management Process 
Not for Use Review the optimum management process by assessing   hazardousness and danger to the environment, health and safety (EHS) 
Request from the relevant department 
Preliminary Chemical Evaluation System Inventory System 
Preliminary Chemical Evaluation 
Preliminary review1) by experts 
Warehouse registration (place of usage) 
Deliberation on review outcomes Approval Use 
Integrated Chemicals Monitoring System 
Footnote: 1) Regenerated Thermal Oxidation 2) Central Chemical Supply System 
Explosion-  proof  Dust Collector 
Fire   Extinguishing Facility 
Installation of Screen Door for Chemicals Storage in  Pyeongtaek worksite 
We have installed a shatter-resistant screen door system to a  warehouse handling chemicals in order to protect employ- ees from chemical leakage accidents and to prevent any sec- ondary damages. We selected automatic screen doors as they  have several advantages, such as easier monitoring, immediate  management, and inter-operation with firefighting facilities  interlock management systems. 
Disposal Use (inventory management) 
Integrated Disaster Control Monitoring Center 
Automatic   Effluent Analysis System 
Surface   Treatment Process 
Funding Support 
Investment in Smart Factory Support Project 
Manufacturing Experts   Invested Funds 
150people    100Billion KRW 
Amount of Win-Win Funds Invested in Suppliers 
833.9 Billion KRW 
Supply Chain Conflict Minerals Management 
Percentage of RMAP1) Certified Smelter within Supply Chain 
Footnote: 1) Responsible Minerals Assurance Process 
2018 HIGHLIGHTS 
We firmly embrace the philosophy of fairness, openness and co-prosperity with about 2,400 first-tier suppliers worldwide. Moreover,  
to establish a sustainable business ecosystem, we strive to strengthen the competitiveness of our supply chain as well as to require  
them complying with global laws and regulations and fulfilling social responsibilities. 
[Goal 3] Ensure healthy  lives and promote well- being for all at all ages 
3.9  By 2030, substantially  reduce the number of deaths  and illnesses from hazardous  chemicals and air, water and  soil pollution and contami- nation 
ALIGNMENT WITH SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 
[Goal 8] Promote sustained,  inclusive and sustainable  economic growth, full and  productive employment and  decent work for all 
8.3  Promote development-oriented  policies that support productive  activities, decent job creation, entre- preneurship, creativity and innova- tion, and encourage the formaliza- tion and growth of micro-, small- and  medium-sized enterprises, including  through access to financial services 
8.7  Take immediate and effective  measures to eradicate forced labour,  end modern slavery and human traf- ficking and secure the prohibition  and elimination of the worst forms of  child labour, including recruitment  and use of child soldiers, and by 2025  end child labour in all its forms 
8.8  Protect labour rights and pro- mote safe and secure working envi- ronments for all workers, including  migrant workers, in particular women  migrants, and those in precarious  employment  
[Goal 12] Ensure  sustainable consumption  and production patterns 
12.6  Encourage companies,  especially large and transna- tional companies, to adopt  sustainable practices and to  integrate sustainability infor- mation into their reporting  cycle 
In 2015, we started a project called   Smart Factory Construction  to share  our technological knowledge on build- ing a smart factory small and medi- um-sized enterprises(SMEs). 
A smart factory integrates IT technol- ogies in manufacturing industries for  automation of factory operation. It can  improve production efficiency, reduce  costs, minimize environmental impacts  and reduce  workplace risks.  
Smart factory technology includes: build- ing a foundation of site management  starting with site clean-up  improv- ing environmental health and safety by  reducing hazardous materials and fire- watch  enhancing productivity through  process innovation  optimizing logistics    establishing a standard product qual- ity process  automating manufacturing  processes  and conducting process sim- ulations.  
For three consecutive years between  2015 and 2017, we shared our knowledge  with 1,086 SMEs (120 in 2015, 479 in 2016  and 487 in 2017) in Korea. Among the  SMEs that participated in the Smart Fac- tory Construction project, small enter- prises saw a 54% increase in productiv- ity, while medium-sized enterprises saw  a 58% increase.  
Our Knowledge  Sharing  with SMEs -  Building Smart  Factory 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
088 Sustainability Pillars 
Sustainable Supply Chain 
We will expand our support over the  next five years from 2018 until 2022 to  reach out to 2,500 SMEs. We cooperated  with Korea s Ministry of SMEs   Startups   to grant a fund of KRW 100 billion in the  next five years. Compared to the current  project which focused on manufactur- ing capability-building, the expanded  project will focus on SMEs  sustainable  growth in the era of Industry 4.0. The  expanded program will provide support  for training human resources, secur- ing technology, sharing our intellec- tual property, and creating new market  opportunities.  
Moreover, we supported SMEs  entry into  new markets by hosting exhibitions for  outstanding products and by matching  new companies with investors and buy- ers. For example, we hosted the third  annual  Smart Biz Expo  in 2018 as part  of our support for new entrants into the  market, which helped SMEs network  with domestic and international buy- 
Agreement on Smart Factory Construction with Korean Ministry of SMEs and Startups 
ers and investors. In addition to the fund  that we agreed to raise with Korea s Min- istry of SMEs   Startups, we are raising  another fund to support SMEs  market  entry for five years with a total of KRW 10  billion. We are also holding a Partner Col- laboration Academy for training of sup- plier employees as well as a Smart Fac- tory Academy to educate professionals. 
We believe that these efforts will help  SMEs not only by increasing short-term  profits through process innovation but  also by promoting long-term sustain- able business management. Accord- ingly, we will actively work to increase  SMEs  short-term sales, stimulate the  economy, create jobs, and improve cor- porate culture. By doing so, we seek to  promote SME innovation and the fur- ther advancement of such companies in  Korea. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 089 
Vietnamese   Industrial Consultant  Training Program 
In March 2018, we signed a memoran- dum of understanding (MOU) regarding  a consultant training program with Viet- namese Ministry of Industry and Trade.  
This program provided training sessions  for Vietnamese industry experts, includ- ing consultants, public officials, and  professors, selected by the Vietnamese  Ministry of Industry and Trade. The goal  of this program was to help Vietnam  nurture its own human resources in the  technology sector and, subsequently,  increase the rate of local components  production. 
The program consists of two stages   1)  a local consultant training session for  worksite improvement consulting  and 2)  a master consultant training session for  consultant nurturing. Those who com- pleted these two sessions worked as  instructors to help local consultants and  provided substantive consultation on  production and quality improvements  within Vietnamese companies.  
Vietnamese Industrial Consultant Training Program 
Ninety five trainees completed the local  consultant training session in 2018, and  30% of them are on the master consul- tant training session. In collaboration  with the local community, including the  Vietnamese government, the well-or- ganized training program smoothly  transferred the knowledge and experi- ence of Samsung Electronics experts to  Vietnamese trainees, thereby contribut- ing to the development of local human  resources and the creation of a local  component industry ecosystem. 
Until 2020, we will continue to provide  the local consultant and master con- sultant training with the aim of training  a total of 200 local consultants and 60  master consultants. 
Economic : We optimize cost, delivery, technology, quality, and  human resources to maximize synergy effects, speed and effi- ciency as well as to create a sustainable corporate ecosystem. 
Social : We require our suppliers to abide by international stan- dards and regulations with regard to human rights, workplace  safety, ethics, and conflict minerals issues. Our goal is to build  an open and transparent management accountability system  observed by all stakeholders along the supply chain. 
Environmental : We only work with internally certified suppliers  (Eco-Partner) to assess and manage the environmental impacts  of component manufacturing, sourcing of raw materials and  associated production processes. 
Global Supply Chain Operation 
Supply Chain Management Approach 
 We Buy Value, We Pay Trust  Under our vision of  We Buy Value, We Pay Trust , we operate our  supply chain considering economic, social, and environmental  aspects. Also we actively manage our supply chain sustainably  throughout the entire process from supplier selection, opera- tion and evaluation while working towards mutual growth. 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
Customer  Value Supply Chain Competitiveness 
Samsung  Electronics 
090 Sustainability Pillars 
Sustainable Supply Chain 
1st tier Suppliers 
2nd, 3rd, ... n tier Suppliers 
Responsible Supply Chain Management 
Companies without Biz. Transactions 
Sustainable Supply Chain Operation Strategy To establish a sustainable business ecosystem, we relentlessly  strive to strengthen the competitiveness of our supply chain,  while observing global laws and regulations, and fulfilling our  responsibilities. Our top management is committed to continu- ously investing in the competitiveness of not only our first-tier  suppliers but also our second- and third-tier suppliers and, fur- thermore, to small and medium-sized companies that do not  have prior business relationships with us. 
As part of our efforts to bolster competitiveness in our supply  chain, we continuously help our suppliers secure global com- petitiveness and growth, based on our business philosophy that  our competitive advantage comes from the competitiveness of  our suppliers.  
For responsible supply chain management, we help our suppliers  comply with the Samsung Electronics Supplier Code of Conduct by  organizing regular training sessions and operating in accordance  with relevant local regulations as well as international standards.  Furthermore, we support our suppliers in managing sustainabil- ity issues associated with human rights, EHS (Environment, Health  and Safety), finance, and ethics. In addition, we endeavor to ensure  transparency of minerals used in our products. 
Biz. Ecosystem 
Increase Product   Reliability 
Labor and Human Rights : On-site audits are performed on 20  items, including voluntary work, compliance with work hour  regulations, and ban on discrimination. In particular, a ban on  child labor, a minimum wage guarantee, and a ban on inhumane  treatment are mandatory requirements. 
Eco-Partner : The Eco-Partner certification aims to review our  suppliers in terms of their product environment policy, educa- tion   training, and the inclusion of certain chemicals of con- cern in their products. We manage the quality of products from  suppliers and their social and environmental impacts. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 091 
Selection of New Suppliers 
Registration of New Suppliers We evaluate candidate suppliers based on five criteria procure- ment and quality, EHS (Environment, Health and Safety), labor  and human rights, Eco-Partner, and financial status. Only those  that score 80 points or higher out of 100 points in all five cri- teria qualify to register as a Samsung Electronics supplier. For  the EHS, labor and human rights, and Eco-Partner domains, we  use a checklist based on RBA standards to perform intensive  reviews. To identify the actual conditions of candidate suppliers,  our in-house experts conduct on-site visits to suppliers, while  their financial status (credit rating) is reviewed by professional  external agencies. 
Our standard supplier contract signed with first-tier suppliers  stipulates abiding by the Samsung Electronics Environmental  Standard, the Samsung Electronics Supplier Code of Conduct,,  and international human rights standards. 
EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) : Suppliers must satisfy 22  criteria, including occupational safety, fire prevention facilities, occu- pational health, handling of chemicals, and environmental facilities.  In particular, full compliance is required in eight mandatory items,  including fire prevention facilities and the handling of chemicals of  concern and waste substances, sewage and wastewater.  
Open Sourcing We maintain an open sourcing program to keep our supply  chain competitive. Through the International Procurement Cen- ter (IPC) and Global Supplier Relationship Management System  (G-SRM), companies that wish to do business with us can pro- pose use of their components and materials in our products.  Our IPCs, procurement bases located in strategically-import- ant areas across the globe, enable us to monitor technological  trends in relevant regions and identify new suppliers. In 2018,  a total of 610 suggestions were reviewed, of which 72 were cho- sen for our product application. 
Operation of Global Suppliers  
Based on our Procurement and Supplier Codes of Conduct, our  procurement operation is governed by an integrated procure- ment system. We have a dedicated organization responsible for  managing our supply chain from every angle. Our supply chain  management is focused on the strategic importance of sup- pliers with due attention being paid to lower-tier suppliers. In  addition, we are committed to boosting transparency in our sup- ply chain by disclosing our list of suppliers. 
Global Procurement Code of Conduct : All of our purchasing  personnel must adhere to our Procurement Code of Conduct  including the Standards and Principles of Purchasing, Ethical  Standards for Purchasing, and Socially Responsible Purchasing. 
Supplier Code of Conduct : Through the Samsung Electronics  Supplier Code of Conduct, we ensure that our suppliers oper- ate in accordance with local laws and regulations as well as  international standards while helping advance the responsible  management of their work environment. We update our Sup- plier Code of Conduct to reflect the latest version of Responsi- ble Business Alliance Code of Conduct and revised international  standards. In addition, we provide a guide to supplement our  Supplier Code of Conduct to help with compliance. 
Integrated Procurement System : We utilize our integrated pro- curement system (G-SRM) for supply chain management infor- mation sharing with our suppliers, including supplier evalua- tion registration management, risk management, integrated  management of suppliers  compliance and work environments.  We also share our Supplier Code of Conduct and provide self-ini- tiated evaluation checklists through this system. 
Dedicated Organizations : We operate an organization respon- sible for managing suppliers  work environments, as well as  a Partner Collaboration Academy for suppliers  R D activities  and employee training. In 2018, we established a Smart Factory  Support Center to help suppliers prepare for Industry 4.0 in the  areas of nurturing human resources, securing technology, and  acquiring new customers. 
Supply Chain Natural Disaster Risk Management System : We  monitor and manage natural disaster risks to ensure business  continuity and minimize impacts on our business. We obtain  natural disaster data from a related agency and run an auto- mated system to analyze the impact of natural disasters. 
Key Suppliers For our first-tier suppliers, we designate those with high trans- action volume and business importance as key suppliers in  order to identify opportunities and effectively focus on moni- toring and managing the supply chain. We give key suppliers  extensive support, including a priority for contract renewals,  more transaction allocations, a capacity building program and  on-site services to improve their work environment. In 2018, the  key suppliers accounted for nearly 34% of our supply chain, with  purchases from them representing approximately 92% of our  total procurement spend. In particular, we designate suppliers,  who have a large impact on our supply chain from managing  multiple lower-tier companies, as priority suppliers and man- age compliance.  
We also designate our second-tier suppliers who supply to our  key first-tier suppliers and have large transaction volumes for  Samsung Electronics as our key second-tier suppliers. This is  done in order to manage the potential risks on working environ- ment such as the use chemicals of concern in the manufactur- ing process. 
Lower-tier  Supply Chain Management Our supplier management approach extends to second-tier  suppliers based in Korea in order to strengthen our compet- itive advantage along the entire supply chain. To manage sec- ond-tier suppliers, we clearly define first-tier suppliers  respon- sibilities regarding the working conditions within sub-suppliers.  We encourage our suppliers to engage in responsible corporate  activities described in our Supplier Code of Conduct and ensure  compliance among their sub-contractors. 
Contracts Between First- and Second-tier Suppliers : First-tier  suppliers are required to sign a standard contract form with  second-tier suppliers that are engaged in the production of the  items supplied to Samsung Electronics. It includes the same  level of compliance that we ask of our first-tier suppliers. 
Worksite Environment, Health and Safety : We hold our first- tier suppliers accountable for building and supporting a safe  work environment at second- and or lower-tier suppliers and  reflect on outcomes in evaluating their performance. For items  with high environment, health and safety concerns (e.g. chemi- cal substances), we have developed and distributed a safe man- agement guidance to our first-tier suppliers, which assists them  in examining the environmental, health and safety performance  of second-tier and lower tier suppliers. 
Promotion of Fair Trade Policy : We support wide-ranging pro- grams to promote a fair trade between first- and second-tier  suppliers. With the help of Hyeopseonghoe, a council made up  of our first-tier suppliers, and  a Council of Trustees (consisting  of second-tier suppliers), we establish a culture of fair trade and  
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
092 Sustainability Pillars 
Sustainable Supply Chain 
Comprehensive Supplier Evaluation 
We perform a comprehensive annual supplier evaluation to  assess the competitive edge of suppliers and to control sus- tainability issues by using eight evaluation criteria Technol- ogy, Quality, Responsiveness, Delivery, Cost, EHS (Environment,  Health   Safety), Finance, and Law. Among these, three criteria  (Finance, EHS, and Law) are utilized for the analysis of suppli- er-related sustainability issues linked to economic, environ- mental and social compliance. We use various methods to eval- uate suppliers, including transaction data, on-site inspection  results, and data uploaded by suppliers. As the evaluation pro- cess is conducted on an ongoing basis throughout the year, all  suppliers can check and monitor their performance in real-time,  through the integrated procurement system. In 2018, we evalu- ated 91% of our total suppliers, with those registered less than  one year excluded.  
High Performers The results of our comprehensive supplier evaluation are used  in all supplier management processes. As such, raising the pro- portion of high performers (rated as  excellent  or  good  ), is a  key performance indicator in our supply chain management in  terms of securing sustainable competitive edge of suppliers.  The proportion of suppliers rated as high performers in 2018  stood at 64%. In the 2018 evaluation, we strengthened our eval- uation standards related to environment, health and safety,  process failure, and payments between suppliers in order to  boost sustainability by expanding the social responsibilities of  the supply chain. We aim to maintain the percentage of high  performers at above 60%.  
High performers are granted incentives, including the pref- erential transaction allocations for the following year and an  opportunity to join capability building initiatives, while under- performers are required to take corrective measures and are  subject to penalties, including reductions on transaction vol- ume and restrictions on additional transactions. In addition,  as part of incentives for our suppliers, we hold an annual event  Partner Collaboration Day and award prizes for best innovation   practices. 
provide programs for mutual growth. Also, since 2011, we are  encouraging our first-tier suppliers to sign a fair trade agree- ment with second-tier suppliers, which we annually sign with  our first-tier suppliers. Starting from 2018, we are encouraging  a fair trade agreement with second-tier suppliers, between our  second- and third-tier suppliers so that our culture of fair trade  and mutual growth is expanded to lower-tier suppliers.  
Managing Suppliers with High-Risk in Sustainability We concentrate on managing our supply chain by identifying sup- pliers who require additional due diligence based on our compre- hensive supplier evaluation and on-site audit, which include Eco- nomic, Social and EHS topics. To this end, we visit such suppliers  on a regular basis to provide them with consulting services and  improve their work processes. In 2018, the proportion of high-risk  suppliers remained flat year-on-year, at 2.7%.  
Finance : Based on business information and data from a credit  rating agency, we monitor suppliers  financial information on a  quarterly basis. Regarding the suppliers found to have low credit  rating, we take proactive measures to prevent business risk. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 093 
Comprehensive Evaluation Process 
Comprehensive Evaluation Items 
Footnote: 1) Post management for each rating:       Excellent: Give preference in allocating volume for the following year        Underperforming: Request improvement measures       Poor: Reduction in transaction volume and restriction of additional transactions 
Business  Competitiveness 
Sustainability  Issue 
Footnote: 1) Return to Purchasing order 
Self-initiated checking  Estimated score and rating 
Announce evaluation  criteria 
Year Round Evaluation 
Technology 
Responsiveness 
Law (Social) 
Risk monitoring result  compilation Feedback 
Identify implement  improvement areas 
Self- improvement 
   Eight items, including the ownership of technology patents and R D investment 
   Five items, including failure rates and quality management system 
   Six items, including engagement in our policies and the use of conflict minerals 
   Six items, including on time delivery and RTP   response rates 
   Five items, including increases in transaction value and competitive edge in terms of cost 
   Five items, including workplace safety and international certification 
  Three items, including credit rating and debt ratio 
   Five items, including labor human rights in the workplace and anti-corruption 
Law (Social) : We conduct on-site audits of our suppliers to  check their compliance with mandatory RBA items. Based on  the on-site audits, suppliers who need to correct for actions are  required to put in measures for improvement.  
EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) : Suppliers who use  chemicals of concern in manufacturing processes are classified  for further due diligence. We send our EHS experts to support  their activities for improvement. 
Final evaluation results   (end of year) 
Verify results 
Evaluation 
  Supplier       Samsung Electronics 
Management for each  rating  , support suppliers  for improvement 
Follow-up Management 
Follow-up  Management 
Footnote: 1) Payment support funds target first- and second-tier suppliers  
As a global corporate citizen, we seek co-prosperity with com- munities, countries, and humanity as a whole. To this end, we  are committed to bolstering mutual trust with our first-, sec- ond-, and third-tier suppliers via support and cooperation, and  
We provide 540 training programs in 10 areas (including lead- ership, global, R D, procurement, sales, and business inno- vation) for our suppliers to strengthen the capabilities of  their employees so that our growth knowledge can be shared  with our suppliers. Around 70% of the collective training ses- sions are assigned to job skill training in order to ensure prac- tical improvements. In 2018, we expanded ICT conversion and  semiconductor technology academy sessions to help suppliers  lay the foundation for future competitiveness and prepare for  Industry 4.0. In addition, we held industry trend and business  innovation seminars to support the transition into smart man- ufacturing. Furthermore, we jointly hold job fairs with suppli- ers that have difficulties with hiring to help them secure talent.  In the 2018 job fair, a total of 120 suppliers and 10 thousand job  applicants participated.  
Strengthening the Competitiveness of Supply Chain 
Training and Hiring 
Partner Collaboration Support Programs 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
New Technology Development and  Business Opportunities 
Training and Hiring 
Competitiveness   Enhancement 
   Export marketing of best products, Smart Biz Expo Sales Channel 
Funding    Win-Win funds (KRW 1.4 trillion), Payment support funds  (KRW 800 billion scale 1)) 
094 Sustainability Pillars 
Sustainable Supply Chain 
   Customized training courses, a job fair, a next-generation  entrepreneur program, etc. 
   Operate a training center for suppliers in Suwon, Gyeonggi Province 
   High technology forum, Business technology forum,   Patent sharing 
   Management consulting, Advisory support and   Improvements to EHS    Smart factory 
Funding Support 
We manage Win-Win funds and provide funding to suppliers  in Korea in an effort to address suppliers  financing difficulties  and provide liquidity. Win-Win funds offer loans of up to KRW 9  billion at low interest rates to support facility investments and  technology development. A KRW 1 trillion Win-Win fund was  created for first- and second-tier suppliers in 2010, and an addi- tional fund of KRW 400 billion was formed for third-tier suppli- ers in 2018. The payment support funds are designed to provide  zero-interest loans to suppliers to make cash payments to their  sub-suppliers within 30 days. A KRW 500 billion fund was cre- ated in 2017 to improve payment conditions between first- and  second-tier suppliers, and an additional KRW 300 billion fund  was set-up for transactions between second- and third-tier sup- pliers in 2018.  
to enhancing competitiveness in our supply chain. In addition,  we have been expanding our partner collaboration programs  to include SMEs that we have no business relationship with to  strengthen a corporate ecosystem in the community. 
1st-  2nd-  3rd  -tier suppliers 
1st-  2nd-  3rd  -tier suppliers 
1st-  2nd-  3rd-tier  suppliers,SMEs with no  business relationship 
1st-  2nd-  3rd-tier  suppliers,  SMEs with no  business relationship 
1st-  2nd-  3rd-tier  suppliers,  SMEs with no  business relationship 
Improvements to EHS In 2014, we established a dedicated organization to support sup- pliers  environmental safety management. The organization pro- vides various programs including promotion of EHS Modeling  suppliers, environmental safety consultancy, and improvement  activities for suppliers that handle chemicals of concern. In 2018,  we provided environmental safety consulting to 628 suppliers.  For 22 first-tier and 33 second- and third-tier suppliers that use  chemicals of concern in their worksites, we provided 28 environ- mental safety experts. These consulting services improved their  level of environmental safety. In addition, out of  the suppliers  for whom we provided environmental safety consulting in 2017,   we selected 44 first-tier and 120 second- and third-tier suppliers  to improving their current condition of worksites. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 095 
New Technology Development and Business  Opportunities 
We are committed to sharing our technology development  expertise and new technology trends with our suppliers, thus  helping them secure technology. As part of these efforts, we  offer a superior technology exchange program called  High Tech- nology Forum  that highlights our technology trends and supe- rior technologies held by universities and research organiza- tions. In addition, we hold a  Business Technology Forum  that  showcases advanced, commercialized technologies to help our  suppliers identify new business opportunities. In addition, since  2013, we have been participating in a public private joint tech- nology development project, an initiative led by the the Korean  Ministry of SMEs   Startups to promote technology develop- ment by domestic SMEs that have ideas and technology but lack  sufficient financial resources. Furthermore, since 2015, we have  made 27,000 patents available, in order to strengthen techno- logical competitiveness of SMEs. We provide explanatory and  consulting sessions for suppliers, including those with which we  do not have business transactions, on a quarterly basis. 
Support for Competitiveness Enhancement 
We supported a variety of innovation activities (including worksite  consulting, improvements in working conditions and product  quality, and optimization of production) for our first-, second-, and  third-tier suppliers at home and abroad to secure global competi- tiveness. 
Management Consulting For 32 first-tier suppliers facing difficulties with profitability and  product quality, we improved their corporate fundamentals and  product quality through innovation activities, including process  improvements and removal of waste factors. These consulting  services led to a cost reduction of around KRW 40 billion in 2018.  In addition, we offered worksite improvement consulting services  to optimize production at Korean and overseas local companies. 
Advisory Support Our Supplier Consulting Office consisting of our executive-level  consultants shared their worksite experiences and knowledge  with our suppliers, helping them secure their own professional  management capabilities. 
Industry Innovation Movement  From 2013, we have been a part of the Industry Innovation  Movement led by the Korean Ministry of Trade, Industry and  Energy, supporting productivity innovation for our second-and  third-tier suppliers as well as SMEs with whom we have no busi- ness relationships. By 2018 when the movement came to an  end, we had supported a total of 2,376 companies (1,767 sec- ond-and third-tier suppliers and 609 SMEs).  
Smart Factory We carried out a first-round smart factory support project from  2015 to 2017. In 2018, we kicked off a second-round project by  expanding the previous project nationwide to support 2,500  companies (including ones that do not have business relation- ships with Samsung Electronics) over the next five years. To this  end, we have provided consulting services of 150 manufactur- ing experts and provided KRW 100 billion (with government  support of KRW 50 billion). Since 2018, we have been providing  support to around 500 companies. 
Sales Channel Support 
In addition to support for manufacturing and production innova- tion, we help identify sales channels for our suppliers and SMEs  with whom we have no business transactions. Leveraging Sam- sung Electronics  global brand awareness, network and market- ing knowledge, we provide support such as PR activities, market- ing campaigns in international media, and information session for  companies who want to launch their products in online retailers.  In addition, we hold a Smart Biz Expo, offering sales and invest- ment opportunities for approximately 100 companies.  
Irenox, a Tissue Manufacturer Irenox, a tissue manufacturer, operates an automated factory  using huge volumes of raw pulp paper. In 2016, the company  was able to automate many of its manufacturing processes,  due to the introduction of production and resources man- agement systems following its participation in our smart fac- tory support project. This allowed for greater efficiencies than  before when employees would move pulp paper twice as large  as an adult. These changes have driven down the proportion of  defects by 75%, while increasing productivity by 11% and reve- nue by 22%. 
Hephzibah F B, a Dried Fruit Chip Maker The CEO of a dried fruit chip maker Hephizibah participated  in the smart factory support project and received assistance  in preparing for a review by the US Food and Drug Adminis- tration. Our mentors visited the production site every day for  two months, helping them meet the requirements of the FDA  review, including areas such as production equipment man- ufacturing and improvements in warehouses and packaging  rooms. As a result, the FDA review, which had been expected to  take two days, was completed just in two hours. In addition, the  company has increased its productivity by 47%.  
In addition, we require that our first-tier suppliers and their sub- contractors (such as second-tier suppliers including the recruit- ment agency) protect labor human rights for their employ- ees by using a G-SRM system and implementing a three-stage  review process.  
Responsible Supply Chain Management 
Management of Suppliers  Work Environment  
In our management of suppliers  work environments, we require  all participants to take the same levels of responsibility and  actions. We assess our first-tier suppliers  risks related to labor    human rights and, EHS (Environment, Health   Safety) based  on our Supplier Code of Conduct and a guide on the code of con- duct.  
Integrated Working Environment Management Process 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
   Annual self-assessment of all first-tier  suppliers using 85 RBA-based criteria 
Self Assessment On-site Audits Third-party Audits 
096 Sustainability Pillars 
Sustainable Supply Chain 
   Conduct on-site audits on  priority  suppliers  selected according to  location, transaction volume, past  track records on compliance and  self-assessment outcomes to identify  improvement tasks. (Conduct on-site  audits on 407 suppliers in 2018) 
   On-site audits led by RBA-certified  auditors and performed by dedicated  team, an independent auditor separate  from the procurement organization  within Samsung Electronics 
   Interview suppliers  employees for the  square root quantity of total employees  for each supplier when conducting audits 
On-Site Audit  For thorough verification, we interview suppliers  employ- ees and examine their workplace environment. We devise final  improvement tasks and register them with the G-SRM. After  suppliers establish an improvement plan, they implement  improvement measures on their own. For tasks that require  urgent or action, suppliers engage in corrective action plans  immediately. Typically, tasks are completed within 30 days after  registration. For those that would take some time and costs to  implement, such as facility investments and certifications, we  check on the progress that suppliers are making according to  their timeline and monitor the completion of improvement  measures.  
Applying the same criteria as the RBA s, we achieved a compli- ance rate of 91% in 2018. Going forward, we will make further  efforts to achieve  higher compliance rates through the inten- sive management of incomplete tasks. 
   An RBA-certified third-party external  audit firm randomly selects suppliers  and performs initial audits based on  the RBA criteria (306 suppliers on a  cumulative basis since 2013) 
   Conduct unannounced audits since  2015 in which specific schedules are not  provided in advance to prevent any kind  of preliminary preparation prior to the  inspection and to ensure more accurate  verification 
   For the tasks that can be immediately  completed, instant actions are taken on  the site. Typically, tasks are completed  within 30 days of registration. Closure  audits are conducted to verify the results  of improvement tasks (193 suppliers on  a cumulative basis since 2013) 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 097 
Third-Party Audit  In 2018, we greatly expanded the number of suppliers subject  to third-party audits, particularly in the Southeast Asian region  where working environment issues were raised. The compli- ance rate of the 2018 third-party audits were similar to the 2017  results, suggesting that our efforts to improve suppliers  work- ing environment were paying off.  
Unit : % Compliance Rate by Audit Area   
Labor Human Rights 
Health Safety 
Environment 
Management System 
Footnote: 1)  Representing final compliance rates and reflect the results of  improvement measures suggested via the third-party audits. 
While we found that the working hours per week in general was  not above the RBA Code of Conduct, there were a few working  hour violations in some Southeast Asian countries for which  we sharply expanded the number of third-party audit targets  in 2018. These violations were mainly due to a gap between  the countries  legal working hours and the RBA standards. We  will continue to monitor the working hours and take corrective  actions so that they can be managed within the standard. 
Average Compliance of the  Workweek    
Weekly Average Work Hours 
Maximum Weekly Average  Work Hours 
Average Work Hours of Those  Who Work 40 Hours or More  per Week 
Compliance with the Guaran- tee of One-day off per Week 
Footnote: 1) Based on global suppliers   2) A workweek should not be more than 60 hours per week (RBA criteria) 
Although most suppliers had their own working environment  polices in place based on our supplier code of conduct, the 2018  audits found that some of new suppliers had area for improve- ment, particularly in their self-assessment process and air pol- lutant emission reduction. For the issues raised, we are cur- rently working closely with the suppliers to formulate plans to  address the issues. 
Working Hour Management    
Grievance Handling Channels We have been operating a hotline system since 2013 to gather  reports on  violations of the working environment standards or  infringements on human rights within our suppliers  worksites.  Such reports are submitted via landline, e-mail, or mobile plat- form and are reviewed by respective departments for verifica- tion at Samsung Electronics. Then, those who raised the issues  are notified of the corrective actions to be taken within one  week, followed by  a review of whether suppliers have taken  corrective actions. Of note, posters showing grievance handling  channels in local languages are placed in offices, corridors,  manufacturing sites, dormitories, dining facilities, as well as  other high-visibility locations. The number of hotline reports has  been decreasing due to suppliers  voluntary efforts. To promote  the grievance handling system, we are utilizing the system as a  channel for suggesting policy and management system, rather  than just for making personal complaints, so that suppliers can  improve the working environment in partnership with their  workers. 
Type of Hotline Reports 
Types of Grievances 
Total No. of reports  
Complaints related to managers 
Environment, health   safety 
Work hours 
At Samsung Electronics, we care about working conditions of our  suppliers  migrant workers and we are paying great attention to  the improvement of the working environment and resolution of  grievances. Migrant workers are often vulnerable to the risk of  forced, bonded, or indentured labor as well as human trafficking  as they are seeking economic opportunities outside their own  country due to unstable political or economic situation in their  home countries. In 2018, we conducted an investigation of all  our first-tier suppliers located in Malaysia. We took an especially  closer look at recruitment fees and identification documents.  After the inspections, we provided education for the entire suppli- ers  management and working groups to avoid recurrence of sim- ilar issues and to protect migrant workers. Regarding the prob- lems identified in some suppliers, we will formulate improvement  measures through root cause analysis and we will make contin- uous efforts to improve the working environment for migrant  workers. 
Caring for the Work Environment of Our Supplier s  Migrant Workers 
No. of  occasions 
We are aware of the heightened risk of human rights violations  and environmental degradation emanating from mining opera- tion in the conflict areas including Africa. As part of our commit- ment to addressing these issues, we have established a respon- sible supply chain management system, while strengthening  transparency in the supply chain. We are committed to ethical  and responsible sourcing throughout our supply chain by apply- ing the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply  Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas.  We also require our suppliers to adopt the Samsung Electronics  Supplier Code of Conduct, which was developed in line with inter- national human rights guidelines. Moreover, we urge our indus- try peers and stakeholders to promote the responsible sourcing  of minerals through RMI (Responsible Mineral Initiative), GeSI   (Global e-Sustainability Initiative) and EPRM (European Part- nership for Responsible Minerals). Also, as a member of the RMI  steering committee, we collaborate with industry on governance  standards for responsible minerals. 
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
   Monitor data on all first-tier suppliers use of conflict-affected and   high-risk minerals as well as smelters  use of such minerals along   the supply chain 
01   Raise Suppliers  Awareness 
   Secure a commitment from suppliers to ban the use of conflict- affected and high-risk minerals from all first-tier suppliers  
02    Inspect the Use of Conflict-affected and High-risk Minerals along  the Supply Chain 
03    Conduct Reasonable Due Diligence and Verification on   Inspection Outcomes 
   Conduct on-site inspections on the data submitted by suppliers  
   Identify and share best practices in suppliers  management of   conflict-affected and high-risk minerals 
04    Verify and Assess Risk Factors within the Supply Chain 
   Categorize suppliers into four rating groups based on inspection  outcomes (based on the credibility of submitted data and the  management level of conflict-affected and high-risk minerals) 
05    Develop Improvement Plans for Risk and Report Relevant Data 
   Restrict transactions with suppliers that work with non-third   party-audited smelters  
   Distribute the conflict-affected areas and high-risk minerals  management guide and support working-level training  
   Request that lower-tier suppliers expand their policy to ban the use  of conflict-affected and high-risk minerals and to source ethically and  responsibly 
   Recommend smelters along the supply chain to become third   party certified 
Samsung Minerals Due Diligence Process Based on   OECD Due Diligence Guidance 
098 Sustainability Pillars 
Sustainable Supply Chain 
Raising Suppliers  Awareness  We require all of our suppliers to submit their consent to ban ille- gally distributed minerals from conflict-affected and high-risk  areas in our system. Also, we make it mandatory for our suppliers  to extend Samsung Electronics  mineral policy banning the use of  minerals from conflict and high-risk areas to their sub-suppliers. 
We offer online and offline training on our conflict minerals policies  to our executives and staff members responsible for procurement  to improve their conflict mineral management capabilities and also  provide suppliers with guidance and systemic support on conflict  minerals. In addition, we have made the online training program  on conflict minerals mandatory for all employees dealing with pro- curement. By 2018, a total of 2,945 employees had participated in  collective training sessions on conflict minerals. Additionally, we  developed a management guide on conflict minerals and shared it  with all of our suppliers so that they could train and educate their  own employees. To raise supplier awareness about conflict miner- als issues, we had conducted training sessions to 1,929 people from  1,568 suppliers by 2018, covering our conflict minerals policies, a  manual on the conflict minerals management system, and infor- mation on how to become a RMAP certified smelter. After carrying  out on-site inspections, we offered additional training to suppliers  that needed improvement in managing conflict minerals. 
Surveys on the Use of Conflict Minerals and Cobalt Using the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) between  January and February in 2019, we collected information for 2018  from our suppliers about the use of conflict minerals at suppliers  and smelters in our supply chain. In addition, we required our sup- pliers to extend the policy regarding the ban on conflict minerals to  their subcontractors to keep them in line with our policy. The cobalt  use status will be monitored by applying RMI CRT (Cobalt Reporting  Template) to all suppliers within the first half of 2019. 
On-site Inspection In 2018, following an internal review of the information submitted  by our suppliers, we carried out on-site inspections of 244 global  suppliers for which additional verification was required, reviewing  the reliability of the data they had provided, as well as the opera- tional status of their conflict minerals policies. This resulted in the  annual improvements of our suppliers  management capacity of  conflict minerals. 
Risk Factor Identification and Assessment Based on the results of on-site inspections, we classify our suppli- ers into different groups according to the reliability of information  submitted and the status of their conflict minerals management.  Best practices are shared for benchmarking, while those classi- 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 099 
fied for further attention are required to back up their data. In some  cases, we provide on-site support for suppliers who need improve- ment at their request. Through these activities, we help our suppli- ers to review and improve their conflict minerals management pol- icies organization and information management systems so that  they can strengthen their ability to manage conflict minerals and  enhance their due diligence system. 
Improvement Plans for Risk We have required all of our suppliers to ban the use of conflict  minerals, while urging them to switch to smelters certified by  the RMAP. Transaction of materials that use minerals supplied by  non-RMAP-certified smelter is blocked by our G-SRM. In addition,  we  established a VOC channel for our suppliers in order to provide  sufficient support to our suppliers and operated a real-time support  system. In addition, we always verify the origin of minerals and the  use of conflict minerals based on smelter information submitted by  each supplier. We then re-check whether smelters using minerals of  uncertain origins or without a RMAP certification use conflict miner- als, and recommend they seek to obtain a RMAP certification.  
All of our suppliers, as of 2018, do business only with RMAP-certi- fied smelters for all conflict minerals.  
Recommending Smelters to Obtain RMAP Certification :  
We have urged all smelters to obtain RMAP certification as a mem- ber of the RMI. For Korean smelters, we are making a recommen- dation for RMAP certification in cooperation with the Korea Urban  Mining Association.  
Conflict Minerals We require our suppliers to partner with RMAP- certified smelters  by blocking transactions with uncertified smelters via our IT sys- tem. This has resulted in the 100% participation of smelters we do  business with in the RMAP certification. 
Conflict Minerals-Related RMAP Certification of Smelters  among the Supply Chain (as of Dec. 2018) 
  Smelter List 
Switching to RMAP-certified Smelters :  
Unit: No. of Smelters 
RMAP Certification  Completed 
Responsible Minerals Responsible minerals are defined as minerals that are mined under  vulnerable conditions with potential human rights violations or  environmental destruction. For cobalt, we have been reviewing our  use of the mineral according to OECD Due Diligence Guidance and  will further monitor status based on the RMI Cobalt Reporting Tem- plate. As such, we have been investigating smelters regarding the  child labor in Democratic Republic of the Congo. We will continue  to set clear guidelines for our suppliers and raise their awareness  about responsible sourcing of minerals through educational train- ing. We are always seeking ways to work together with other global  companies and are listening to the opinions of our stakeholders,  including through our engagement with RMI. Furthermore, we par- ticipate in a variety of global initiatives such as the European Part- nership for Responsible Minerals and with partner groups. 
Industry Cooperation for Sustainable Cobalt Mining -   Cobalt for Development  
In order to address issues of human rights violations and envi- ronmental degradation that arise from mining cobalt in the  Democratic Republic of the Congo, Samsung Electronics started  Cobalt for Development, a joint pilot project financed by Sam- sung SDI, BMW Group, BASF, and Samsung Electronics, which  is implemented by GIZ (German development corporation). The  project aims to improve not only the labor conditions of artis- anal cobalt mining operation in that pilot mine, but also the  living environment near a selected cobalt mine. To this end, in  addition to risks assessment for the environment, health and  safety, and expanding use of personal protective equipment, we  plan to support financial literacy training, farming   entrepre- neurship training, and to improve access to education. Once the  project is proven effective, this could be applied to other legal  artisanal mines in the short term and address structural chal- lenges in the long term. 
Recycling Minerals from E-Waste 
We have tightened our waste management standards to  ensure that waste containing minerals are transferred only to  RMAP-certified smelters refiners while processing waste gen- erated by manufacturing sites in Korea as well as collected  e-waste. In Korea, we have cooperated with the Korea Urban  Mining Association to urge Korean smelters refiners to seek  RMAP certification. 
Sustainability  Foundation 
          Materiality Assessment 
  Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 
          Sustainability Management Value Creation 
  Our Alignment with UN SDGs 
          Corporate Governance 
  Risk Management 
           Responsible Business Practices 
  Performance Summary 
Materiality Analysis Process 
Materiality Assessment 
We conduct a materiality assessment on an annual basis to  reflect the topics we believe are of the greatest interest to our  stakeholders and our businesses. We use the outcomes of this  assessment to identify material issues and disclose relevant  data in our sustainability reports. We created a pool of issues  based on media reports, business conditions, global standards  and initiatives on sustainability management, and expert opin- ions. Out of the pool of issues, 25 were selected as material  
102 Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Appendix Highlight 
  Created a pool of issues from 6,294  media articles related to Samsung  Electronics, peer benchmarking (85  issues), and major industry issues  (UN SDGs, TCFD, GRI, SASB). 
  Selected 25 material issues  through internal discussions  with relevant departments and  consultation with experts on  sustainability management. 
Created a pool of material issues  
Select Material Issues 
Identify 8 stakeholder groups 
Select 25 material issues 
Select Material  Issues  
  Assessed the impacts of material  issues on our revenue, costs, and  reputation.  
  Assessed economic social  environmental matters of interest  to stakeholders, including  customers, shareholders, investors,  employees, suppliers, local  communities, NGOs, governments,  and media. 
Social impact analysis 
Business impact analysis 
Business impact analysis 
Social impact analysis 
Prioritization 
issues through internal discussions with relevant departments  and consultation with experts. The material issues were prior- itized according to  economic social environmental matters of  interest to stakeholders, as well as the business impacts of the  issues (in terms of revenue, costs, and reputation). The findings  from the materiality assessment were reviewed and finalized by  the Corporate Sustainability Management Office and top man- agement. 
  The findings of the assessment  were reviewed by the Corporate  Sustainability Management Office  and top management. 
  External Expert Review  
Internal   External Expert Review 
Internal and external   expert review   on material issues 
Review  Verification 
Social Impact 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 103 
Materiality Analysis Outcomes 
  Responsible Technology Use 
  Transparency, Accountability, and Reporting 
  Transparency in Governance 
  Product Safety and Quality Management 
  Customer Health and Safety 
   Responsible Marketing and Customer  Relationship Management 
  Ethical Management and Compliance 
3.3 3.5 3.7 3.9 4.1 4.3 4.5 4.7 4.9 
Water and Wastewater  Management 
Global Stakeholder  Engagement 
Supply Chain Sustainability Support 
Community Development and  Business Citizenship Activities 
Diversity and Inclusion 
Waste and Hazardous  Materials Management 
Privacy, Data Security, and  Freedom of Expression Responsible Marketing  and Customer Relationship  Management 
  Labor Practices and Human Rights 
  Human Resource Development and Welfare 
  Supply Chain Sustainability Support 
  Labor Practices in Supply Chain 
   Community Development and Business  Citizenship Activities 
  Health and Safety in Supply Chain 
  Diversity and Inclusion 
  Operational Health and Safety 
  Accessibility 
  Responsible Sourcing 
  Privacy, Data Security, and Freedom of Expression 
  Global Stakeholder Engagement 
Responsible Technology Use 
Accessibility Responsible Sourcing 
Ethical Management  and Compliance 
Product Stewardship 
Transparency in Governance 
Energy Management 
Health and Safety in Supply Chain 
Transparency, Accountability,  and Reporting 
Human Resource  Development and Welfare 
Environment 
  Product Stewardship 
  Climate Strategy 
  Recycle and Circular Economy 
  Energy Management 
  Waste and Hazardous Materials Management 
  Water and Wastewater Management  
 Economy       Society       Environment 
Operational Health and Safety 
Product Safety and  Quality Management 
Labor Practices in  Supply Chain 
Customer Health  and Safety 
Recycle and   Circular Economy 
Climate Strategy 
Labor Practices and  Human Rights 
Business Impact 
Key Stakeholders 
Stakeholder Key Concerns of Stakeholders Communication Channel Our Strategy 
Customers    Product service quality    Safe product use    Correct product information    Transparent communication  
Shareholders     Investors     Economic outcomes     Risk management     Information sharing     Sustainability Issues   (environmental, social and    governance) 
Employees    Workplace health and safety    Diversity and equal opportunity    Training and career development    Employment and benefits    Labor relations 
Suppliers    Fair trade     Shared growth     Employees  human rights protection     Supplier assessment of their   impact on society 
Local  Communities    Local recruitment, local economy  revitalization, and other indirect  economic effects     Local environmental protection     Donation, volunteering, and other  social-giving initiatives  
NGOs, CSR   Councils,   Specialized   Institutions 
Governments   Indirect economic effects    Fair trade    Health and safety    Compliance 
Media    Transparent and prompt   information disclosure     Press releases     Communication team by HQs entities    Samsung Electronics Newsroom 
Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 
104 Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Appendix Highlight 
   Social responsibility for local  communities and the environment     Contribution to the UN SDGs     Transparent and prompt   information disclosure 
   Work Council    Counseling centers    Satisfaction surveys    Samsung LiVE    Newsletters    Reporting systems (compliance, ethics) 
   Local volunteer centers     Local community council     Samsung Nanum Village    Local Community Blog   (Suwon, Gumi, and Gwangju sites)     Yongin Hwaseong community Blog    (http:  www.sotongsamsung.com ) 
   Attend policy debates     Attend council meetings     Participate in policy consultative  bodies 
   Investor Relations meetings    General shareholder meetings     One-on-one meetings     Analyst Day     Samsung Electronics  Corporate Films  YouTube URL: https:  www.youtube.com  samsungelectronics 
   Hotline, Cyber Shinmungo    Supplier meetings, Partner   Collaboration Day    Shared Growth Academy     Management counseling group for   suppliers 
   Business networking events     Open and transparent engagement   with NGOs 
   Customer satisfaction surveys   conducted by external organizations     Call centers, service centers    Prosumer programs     Samsung Electronics Newsroom    Samsung Semicon Story    YoungSamsung Community 
   Manage work environment    Build a creative organizational culture    Announce the three years Diversity   Inclusion Plan  (North America)    Operate a customized career life cycle program    Host business briefings 
   Operate SME support programs with government  agencies     Comply with laws and regulations on fair trade,  workplace health   safety, and the environment     Develop and operate a venture investment window in  collaboration with governments 
   Stable profit generation     Strengthen shareholder return policy     Set up the Governance Committee under the BOD    Reinforce transparency in operating external sponsorships     Host the Investors Forum    -  Attended by key institutional investors, analysts,   and IT industry experts in domestic and global sites 
   Support news coverage     Host Media Day  
   Strengthen the quality and safety management system    Provide product information by launching   country-specific websites     Gather and address the voice of customers    Identify and consult on customer reputations through  the Reputation Institute (Europe Central and Latin  America) 
   Promote fair trade and shared growth     Assist suppliers with their innovation initiatives     Host the Tech Trans Fair     Operate supplier support fund     Ensure responsible management of the supplier work  environment 
   Support local SMEs through the Smart Factory  program     Preserve the ecosystem of streams in the vicinity of  our worksites     Implement educational and recruitment corporate  citizenship programs     Operate employee volunteer groups 
   Gather feedback from global and local NGOs     Engage in the work of RBA (Responsible Business  Alliance) and GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative)    Develop human rights policies in cooperation with  BSR (Business for Social Responsibility)    Participate in multi-stakeholder engagements such  as the European Partnership for Responsible Minerals  and in industry initiatives such as the Responsible  Minerals Initiative 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 105 
Sustainability Management Value Creation 
We strive to create not only an economic value but also social  and environmental values through sustainable management,  contributing to the global humanity. As these social and envi- ronmental values are hard to quantify, we have taken a qualita- tive approach in setting our sustainability management goals.  Since 2016, in order to improve data reliability, we have mea- sured the outcome of our social and environmental value cre- ation activities using KPMG s  True Value  methodology, which  provides a proven approach in the quantification of social and  environmental indicators. 
Total value, which is expressed in positive or negative numbers,  points to the sum of social value that we increased or decreased  
Socio-economic 
Environmental 
  Footnotes: 1) The above benefits and costs are adjusted in consideration of price fluctuations  Based on the USD KRW rate of 1,114 and EUR KRW rate of 1,274 as of  December 31st of 2018. 2) G.Psacharopoulos and H.A. Patrinos, Returns to investment in education: a further update (2004) 3) BCG, The cement sector: a strategic contributor to Europe s future 4) G. Hutton, Global costs and benefits of drinking-water supply and sanitation interventions to reach the MDG target and universal coverage (2012) 5) EPA, Technical update of the social cost of carbon for regulatory impact analysis (2013) 6) EEA, Revealing the cost of air pollution from industrial facilities in Europe (2011) 7) TruCost PLC, Natural capital at risk: the top 100 externalities of business (2013) 8) A. Rabl, J. V. Spadaro and A. Zoughaib, Environmental impacts and costs of solid waste: a comparison of landfill and incineration (2009) 
2018 True value 
EARNINGS SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENTAL TRUE EARNINGS 
Value measurement methodology 
44,344,857 
Financial  Value Investor   Value Supplier  support Local community  development GHG  emissions Atmospheric  environmental  impact 
10,741,967 
Investor Value 
Supplier Support 
Local Community    
GHG emissions in workplace 
Atmospheric Environmental Impact 
Aquatic Environmental Impact  
Environmental Impact of Waste  
833,900 46,451 
Benefits    
-715,558 -4,118 
Social costs that incur due to water consumption based on severe water short- ages in the area where our worksites are located 7) 
Social costs that incur due to waste landfilling, incineration, and recycling  respectively8) 
Measurement methodology1) 
Dividends and interest payments to investors and creditors 
Investments made in the Win-Win Cooperation Fund 
 Return on investment made in educational projects (118%)2)  Return on investment made in infrastructure development projects (250%)3)  Return on investment made in sanitary facility development projects (550%)4) 
Social costs that incur due to GHG emissions5) 
Social costs that incur due to the emission of air pollutants (NOx, SOx, PM) 6) 
for a given year. For 2018, our financial value was approximately  KRW 44.3 Trillion, and our True Value, which includes socio-eco- nomic and environmental values, amounted to nearly KRW 54.5  Trillion, approximately 23% higher than the financial value and  11% higher than the 2017 True Value. 
As the currently available value indicators are not enough to  estimate the value of all sustainable management activities, we  have been steadily monitoring research on value measurement  methodologies to expand the number of value indicators. In  2018, we reviewed additional indicators by benchmarking social  value estimation firms. We will continue to conduct research to  add more indicators to our 2019 measurement. 
Aquatic  environmental  impact 
-745,482 -3,632 
Environmental  impact of waste 
2018  54,498,385 
2017  49,158,411 True   Value 
Unit: million KRW 
2016  25,988,765 
Our Alignment with the United Nations (UN)   Sustainable Development Goals 
At the United Nations General Assembly in September 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted for the   purpose of establishing a sustainable society across the world through community development, environmental protection and   inclusive economic growth.  The timeline for these UN SDGs runs from 2016 until 2030. As a global corporate citizen, we aim to take  account of the SDGs in how we run our business. We focus on the SDGs most relevant to our businesses and established approaches to  help achieve them. Based on these approaches, we have engaged in a variety of sustainability activities to help achieve these goals.  
UN SDGs At its 2015 General Assembly, the UN adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to establish a sustainable society across the  world. While the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) established in 2000 focused on underdeveloped countries, the SDGs are uni- versal goals for all countries, including developed nations. To achieve the SDGs, civil society and private-sector companies, as well as  governments and experts, need to be proactively involved.  
What We Do in Alignment with UN SDGs 
106 Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Appendix Highlight 
1  NO POVERTY End poverty in all its  forms everywhere 
7  AFFORDABLE AND  CLEAN ENERGY Ensure access to  sustainable energy  for all 
13 CLIMATE ACTION Take urgent action to  combat climate change  and its impacts 
Product  Stewardship  
Technology  for Good 
2  ZERO HUNGER End hunger, Improve  food security, and  promote sustainable  agriculture 
8  DECENT WORK AND  ECONOMIC GROWTH Promote sustainable  economic growth,  full employment and  decent work for all 
14 LIFE BELOW WATER Protect and sustainably  use the oceans, seas,  and marine resources 
Commitment to  the Environment  in Our Operation  
Investing in  Our Employees 
3  GOOD HEALTH   AND WELL-BEING Ensure healthy lives  and promote well-being  for all at all ages 
9  INDUSTRY,  INNOVATION AND  INFRASTRUCTURE Build resilient  infrastructure,  promote sustainable  industrialization 
15 LIFE ON LAND Protect the ecosystem  and preserve  blodiversity (forests,  deserts, land, etc.) 
10 REDUCED  INEQUALITIES Reduce inequality  within and among  countries 
16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND  STRONG INSTITUTIONS Establish a fair justice  system for all 
4  QUALITY EDUCATION Ensure quality  education and promote  life-long learning  opportunities for all 
Enabling  People 
Sustainable  Supply Chain 
11  SUSTAINBLE CITIES  AND COMMUNITIES Make cities and human  settlements inclusive,  safe, resilient, and  sustainable 
5  GENDER EQUALITY Achieve gender equality  and empower all  women and girls 
17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR  THE GOALS 
Strengthen the means  of implementation  and revitailze the  global partnership for  sustainable development 
6  CLEAN WATER   AND SANITATION Ensure availability  and sustainable  management of water  and sanitation for all 
12 RESPONSIBLE  CONSUMPTION AND  PRODUCTION Ensure sustainable  consumption and  production patterns 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 107 
Our Approach 
We are committed to minimizing health and environmental impacts related to   the use of chemicals of concern. In addition, we strive to create an environment  where our employees can work without concerns over their health and safety   in the manufacturing processes. 
We run customized education programs to promote the development of local   communities, while providing a variety of support (via our employees and   technology) to enable local residents and communities to build capabilities   necessary to plan for a better future.   
We have a firm belief that ensuring equal opportunities is key to economic growth,  political stability, and social change. We endeavor to find new ways to help women  globe and prepare youth for the future. 
We make an efficient use of water through the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle).   In wastewater treatment, we apply an in-house standard which is stricter than   legal requirements, minimizing the impact on water resources.  
We are fully aware of our responsibility to expand our renewable energy use to   tackle global climate change. As such, we strive to expand the use of renewable  energy at our worksites via the installation of solar panels and geothermal units,   we have signed Power Purchasing Agreements, and have pursued Green Pricing. 
We are committed to pursing innovation and new growth drivers to share related  technology with our society. As such, we run programs and systems to build   an innovative culture and expand investments in R Ds and productivity growth.  
We strive to improve the accessibility of our IT devices and technology to allow   all consumers to benefit equally from cutting-edge technology.  
We offer equal opportunities to all employees and applicants. In addition,   we do not tolerate any kinds of discrimination in our HR management on the  grounds of nationality, race, gender, age, religion, marital status, sexual orientation,  social status, pregnancy, physical disabilities, military service, genetic information,   or political propensity. 
We have five circular economy principles the expansion of the use of recycled  materials, product durability improvement, compact product packaging,   reduction in the use of virgin natural resources, and the extension of product   life span use. We will continue to strive to minimize our environmental footprint  through the recycling and reuse of resources.  
We have prioritized climate change issues according to the degree of their   importance and impact, devising a strategy to respond to them. Furthermore,   we have invested in facilities to reduce GHG emissions   optimize our operation . 
We are committed to minimizing the impact of our operation on biodiversity.   In particular, we have consistently undertaken ecosystem protection activities,   including the identification of endangered species near our worksites and protection  of their habitats.  
We run local programs to address a variety of social issues (related to education,  healthcare, employment, and environment) by sharing our advanced technology   and cooperating with stakeholders.  
  Galaxy Upcycling    Re  program      
  Global diversity initiatives        
  Stream ecosystem protection activities      
Major Activities 
  EHS Innovation Day     Consultancy on improving suppliers   environmental safety   
  Samsung Dream Class    Samsung Software Academy For Youth    Samsung Solve for Tomorrow  
  Samsung STEM Girls Program     Female leadership programs  
  World Water Day     Participation in CDP Water   
   Our renewable energy use in 2018: 1,356GWh      
  Vietnamese consultant training program    C-Lab (Creative Lab)  
  Accessibility design principles (4Cs)    Home appliance accessibility advisory group  
  Development of energy  efficient products     Participation in CDP Climate Change   
  Partnership on AI     Cobalt for Development  Project in DRC  
Corporate Governance 
We believe that corporate governance is key to sustainable  business operation. Based on this belief we make a consci- entious effort to embrace core values such as independence,  transparency, expertise and diversity. In addition, we are well  aware that stakeholder engagement adds substantial value to  our efforts with respect to our sustainable growth, and we will  expand our communication with diverse stakeholders. 
Board Composition 
In accordance with Article 24 of the Articles of Incorporation,  Samsung Electronics  Board shall have at least three but no  more than fourteen Directors. The decision for having more than  three Directors complies with Article 383 of the Commercial Act  in South Korea, while we believed that the maximum number of  Directors should not exceed fourteen considering company size,  meeting operation and the efficiency of decision making.  
As a result, the current Board consists of eleven Directors, six  of whom are Independent Directors. Thus, the current compo- sition complies with Article 542-8 of the Commercial Act, which  states that a company shall have at least three Independent  Directors and that Independent Directors shall constitute a  majority of the Board.  
As of April 2019, our Board composition is as follows. 
Sang Hoon Lee 
Jae Yong Lee 
Hyun Suk Kim 
Dong Jin Koh 
Jaewan Bahk 
Byung Gook Park 
Jeong Hun Kim 
Han Jo Kim 
Board Composition   Chair       Member 
108 Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Appendix Highlight 
Chairman of the Board 
Vice Chairman 
Vice Chairman   CEO (DS) 
President   CEO (CE) 
President   CEO (IM) 
Independent Director 
Independent Director 
Independent Director 
Independent Director 
Independent Director 
Independent Director 
Management  Committee 
Audit   Committee Independent Director  Recommendation  Committee 
Independence and Transparency of the Board 
The Board should be able to make independent judgments and  decisions. Directors should be appointed through a transparent  procedure. To enhance the independence of our Board, we made  sure that Independent Directors constitute a majority and sep- arated the roles of Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the  Board. The Chairman widely listens to the opinions and acts as a  mediator between the Executive and Independent Directors  and  does not serve on any Committee, including the management  Committee to wholly preserve an objective point of view. 
Aside from meetings with the Company s management, ses- sions only attended by Independent Directors are arranged  to facilitate a candid exchange of opinions on important mat- ters, including ways to enhance shareholder value. A Director is  appointed by a resolution of a general meeting of shareholders,  in accordance with Article 382 of the Commercial Act. Executive  Director candidates are nominated by the Board and Indepen- dent Directors are elected from candidates recommended by  the Independent Director Recommendation Committee, accord- ing to Article 542-8 of the Commercial Act. 
The Independent Director Recommendation Committee is a com- mittee under the Board who, after in-depth reviews, recommends  Independent Director candidates to be presented at a general  meeting of shareholders. The Committee consists entirely of  Independent Directors. This meets requirements of Article 542-8  of the Commercial Act, which states that Independent Directors  must constitute a majority to ensure the Committee s indepen- dence and transparency and that it duly recommends candidates. 
Related Party  Transactions  Committee 
Compensation  Committee Governance  Committee 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 109 
Expertise and Diversity of the Board 
In a rapidly changing business environment, Director exper- tise is essential as the Board is constantly required to make  strategic decisions. The Company s three main businesses  the Device Solutions (DS), Consumer Electronics (CE), and IT    Mobile Communications (IM) divisions are directed by lead- ing professionals in the relevant field who practice responsible  management as chief executive officers and also participate on  the Board. In addition, the Board needs diverse perspectives in  order to make good decisions. Independent Directors leverage  their expertise and skills in myriad fields, including finance, law,  engineering, IT, public administration, and ESG to contribute to  the Board s informed and objective decision-making process. 
Board Operation 
The Board holds seven to eight regular meetings per year for  matters such as approving quarterly financial statements  and convening the AGM (Annual General Meeting). A special  or extraordinary meeting can be called when deemed neces- sary. In accordance with Article 30 of the Articles of Incorpora- tion and Article 8 of the Regulations of the Board of Directors,  
Our Board of Directors 
Independence 
Transparency    All Directors are appointed by a resolution of a general meeting of shareholders 
Expertise and  Diversity 
As of the reporting date, we enhanced Board diversity and  expertise by increasing the ratio of female Directors, and also  increasing the ratio of financial experts in the Audit Committee. 
   The Chairman of the Board is appointed by the Directors through a Board resolution in accordance  with the Articles of Incorporation and the Regulations of the BOD 
   Directors are not allowed to exercise their voting rights regarding agenda items in which they have  special interest 
   Directors are prohibited from engaging in business activities in the same industry without the  BOD s approval 
   Those who are full-time employees, affiliated to the Company s largest shareholder or   to the Company itself, or recently worked at the Company within the past two years are prohibited  from serving as Independent Directors 
   Executive Director candidates are nominated by the Board and Independent Director   candidates by the Independent Director Recommendation Committee 
   Independent Director candidates are nominated based on their expertise or experience in areas  such as business administration, economics, accounting, law, and relevant technologies 
   Independent Directors are provided with regular internal training via visits to domestic overseas  business sites and through briefings on the Company s operational status 
   Multiple factors   religion, race, gender, hometown, expertise   are taken into account during the  selection process, and discrimination based on such factors is prohibited when nominating director  candidates 
a meeting of the Board shall be convened by the Chairman of  the Board, and the Chairman shall give notice to each Director  of the date, time, place, and meeting agenda at least 24 hours  prior to the meeting. Directors may request the Chairman to  convene a Board meeting when deemed necessary in the per- formance of duties  and they shall explain the agenda and rea- sons for such action to the Chairman. If the Chairman rejects a  meeting request without a valid reason, the Director who made  the request may convene a meeting directly. 
In accordance with Article 31 of the Articles of Incorporation and  Article 9 of the Regulations of the Board of Directors, the pres- ence of a majority of all Directors shall constitute a quorum for  a meeting of the Board and the resolutions of the Board shall  be adopted by a majority of the votes of the Directors attending  the meeting. In accordance with Article 391 of the Commercial  Act, the Board may adopt a resolution without all or some of the  Directors being present at the meeting in person if they are pres- ent by means of a remote communications system that enables  the simultaneous transmission and receipt of the voice of the  Directors. In such cases, the relevant Directors shall be deemed  as being directly present at the meeting. According to Article 9  of the Regulations of the Board of Directors, voting rights of a  Director who has a special interest in the agenda item shall be  limited in order to eliminate the possibility of conflict of interest. 
Board Committees 
The Board has established six committees in accordance with  Article 28-2 of the Articles of Incorporation and Article 11-2 of  the Regulations of the Board of Directors, and has delegated cer- tain responsibilities to the committees to ensure efficient opera- tion of the Board. Excluding the Management Committee, which  consists of three Executive Directors to make efficient decisions  about business matters, we increased independence across  the board by forming all committees entirely with Independent  Directors. Each Committee stipulates its organization, operation,  and authority in accordance with the Regulations of the Commit- tees established under Board resolutions.  
BOD Committee Operation 
110 Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Appendix Highlight 
-  Make resolutions on matters concerning the  Company s business, finance and matters  delegated by the Board 
-  Voluntarily comply with fair transaction  regulations to enhance corporate   transparency 
-  Consists of three Independent Directors 
Compensation Committee Related Party Transactions Committee 
Management Committee Audit Committee 
-  Review and audit matters concerning   management of the Company, including  oversight of the Company s financial status 
- Consists of three Independent Directors 
-  Ensure objectivity and transparency of   the decision making process for Director  compensation 
- Consists of three Independent Directors 
Each agenda approved by the Board s Committees is provided to  all Directors and if deemed necessary, each Director may call for  a meeting of the Board to put the resolutions approved by the  Committee forward for a vote at a meeting of the Board. How- ever, agendas approved by the Audit Committee are excluded to  ensure the Audit Committee s independence. Information about  the committees as of the reporting date is listed below. 
-  Promote the Company s corporate social  responsibility and act to enhance   shareholder value 
- Consists of six Independent Directors 
-  Recommend Independent Director   candidates after assessing their   independence, diversity, and ability 
- Consists of three Independent Directors 
Independent Director Recommendation Committee 
Governance Committee 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 111 
Risk Management 
As a global leader in the IT industry, we identify both external  and internal risk factors causing business uncertainty, including  sustainability risks such as human rights risks or environmental  risks, and we respond to this uncertainty to strengthen our sus- tainable competitiveness in the market. In line with top man- agement s commitment to risk management, we established a  systemized risk response policy and process for each business  division. 
Monitoring and Sensing Global Issues 
We seek advice on a variety of risk factors through our network  with professional consulting firms, government, academia and  NGOs to identify risks in economic, social, regulatory, and envi- ronmental aspects associated with key global issues. 
Risk Management System 
Management Committee  (led by each division head) 
Business Division Corporate  Management Office Corporate Legal Office Functional Unit Regional Office   Subsidiary 
Regional Office    Subsidiary 
Management support- related risk management 
Corporate Communications  Team 
Global Public Affairs Team 
Corporate   Management Team 
Corporate Human   Resources Team 
Global Privacy Office 
Compliance risk  management 
Corporate   Compliance Team  
CSR Risk   Management Council Risk Council 
Our Response to Risks 
We set up systematic risk responding system for each business  division. We report identified risk factors to top management  to respond to the risk factors in an efficient, effective manner.  Three business divisions DS, IM, and CE and the Corporate  Management Office, which are key organizations in business  operation, are responsible for managing financial risks such as  markets, liquidity and credit. Through the Management Com- mittee (consisting of CEOs) and the Risk Council (led by CFO),  non-financial risks including the corporate sustainability issue  are also reviewed. In his role as a Chief Risk Officer for the entire  company, the CFO leads the Risk Council which brings together  the heads of various departments, including Legal, Human  Resources, Communications, Public Affairs, Global Environ- ment, Health and Safety Center, Partner Collaboration Center,  and Global Product Quality Innovation, allowing them to collec- tively discuss and manage risks, including sustainability risks, in  a holistic way across departments and functions. 
Board of Directors Governance  Committee 
Global EHS Center  (environment health  safety risks) 
Global Quality Innovation Office  (quality risk) 
Partner Collaboration Center  (supply chain and procurement  risks) 
Functional unit-   specific risk management 
Global Marketing Center  (global market risks) 
Region-specific risk  management 
Region-specific risk  management 
We recognize that business operation is exposed to a wide  array of risks arising from the business environment. These  risks are managed by the relevant departments, but critical  issues need to be supervised by the Board of Directors. Under  the Governance Committee, we operate the CSR (Corporate  Social Responsibility) Risk Management Council to strengthen  the oversight of the Board on risk response and management.  The Council oversees the internal management system for CSR  Risks and discusses solutions to resolve arising issues. Indepen- dent Directors and related departments participate to hold the  Council on a quarterly basis and discuss the agenda. We report  agendas of non-financial risks including topics such as climate  change, labor and human rights, and operational health and  safety to the Board of Directors as critical issues. Through the  reporting, our Board of Directors thoroughly examine the issues  and comprehensively manages the potential risks.  
Reinforcement of the Board s Supervision on   Risk Management 
112 Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Appendix Highlight 
System-enabled Company-wide Risk Management 
We have established a system of continuous risk management  monitoring through a company-wide system, along with the  risk management functions of each division. We monitor our  global supply chains, with a strong focus on our first-tier, related  to development, procurement, manufacturing, logistics, sales  and services in real time. We also strive to minimize supply  chain risks by sensing market changes and unusual events. 
In 2004, we adopted a Disclosure Control and Procedures  (DC P) system to manage company-wide financial risks. We  also have prepared CEO CFO approval procedures as well as  internal control procedures for efficient financial risk manage- ment. In addition, we operate a self-diagnosis system to prevent  and mitigate risks across the company using a wide array of IT  systems such as Global Enterprise Resource Planning (G-ERP)  and Global Supply Chain Management (G-SCM) for financial and  supply chain risk management  Global Environment, Health    Safety System (G-EHS) for the integrated management of envi- ronmental, health and safety risks  and Global Supplier Rela- tionship Management (G-SRM) for the integrated management  of supplier risks. We continue to improve business efficiency  and productivity by standardizing various processes and sys- tems located around the world. 
Intellectual  Property Rights 
Human Resources  
Environment  
Privacy and Personal Data  Protection 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 113 
Compliance Management System by Area 
Compliance    
Anti- corruption  
Footnote:  1) Compliance Program Management System  2) Privacy Legal Management System  3) Global Environment, Health   Safety System 4) Trade Compliance System 5) Global Policy   Procedure Manuals 
Responsible Business Practices 
Compliance 
We take compliance with integrity and regard laws and regula- tions as one of our top priorities. To fulfill our responsibility as  a global player, we endeavor to promote ethical business prac- tices. Also, we carefully observe law and regulation of all coun- tries we operate and strive to endeavor all illegal or wrongful  acts in order to sustain our business in lawful and ethical manner. 
Compliance Management We operate the Corporate Compliance Team and Global Privacy  Office within our Corporate Legal Office which is under the direct  control of the CEO. Furthermore, we assist our top management s  decision making process through our compliance-related com- mittees and the Privacy Steering Committee. Each business divi- sion and overseas regional offices also have their own organiza- tions responsible for compliance and privacy at the local level. 
Compliance Management System To embed compliance a fundamental element of responsible  business conduct  within our organizational culture, we con- tinuously take measures to enhance our compliance manage- 
Focus Areas in Compliance Management 
Privacy Trade Anti-trust Environment   Safety Sub-  contracting 
Intellectual  Property  Rights 
Management System 
Compliance Program  Management  System (CPMS  )  
Ethics Management System  
Privacy Legal Management System  (PLMS  ) 
GHRP Portal  
Global Environment, Health and Safety   System (G-EHS  ) 
Trade Compliance  System(TCS  ) 
Global Policy   Procedure Manuals  (GPPM  )  management 
Contract management system 
Anti- corruption Consumer  Protection 
Reporting of compliance violations  operating  of help desk and self-test programs  posting of  manuals and guides  
Posting of the Management Principles and Code  of Conduct  reporting of corrupt practices 
Personal data protection  management of  products and services 
Ban on the illegal use of software  
Compliance with labor and human rights  standards, posting of HR regulations 
Environment   Safety of  workplaces and  products 
Export control of strategic materials 
Standardization of   global  business processes 
ment system. We strive to minimize the risks that could arise  from unlawful business practices, and we operate compliance  programs to reinforce our responsibility for matters such as anti- trust, anti-corruption, labor   human rights, health and safety,  and environment issues. 
The Compliance Program Management System (CPMS), an IT  system developed to manage compliance-related risks, provides  our area-specific policies, and the details of regional consumer  protection issue monitoring. We also operate a help desk under  the CPMS to provide advice on work-related inquiries and sup- port when they are encountering difficulties with determining  illegalities solely based on our guidelines. Our whistle-blowing  system for employees, operating within the CPMS, thoroughly  guarantees confidentiality and protects whistle-blowers from  any disadvantages due to reporting. 
In order to resolve and remediate key issues in the areas of labor  relations and human rights (e.g., involving child labor, migrant  workers, conflict minerals, privacy, and personal data), we man- age risks and develop improvement measures throughout the  supply chain with all the related teams in charge. 
Labor  Relations   Human  Rights 
Responsible Unit 
Corporate Compliance Team, Global  Privacy Office  
Audit Team  
Global Privacy Office  
IT Strategy Group  
Global EHS Center  
Corporate Compliance Team 
Administration Team  
Corporate Legal Office 
Compliance Training We strive to enhance our employees  awareness on compli- ance and share our commitment to compliance manage- ment with all of our employees at global worksites. In order to  achieve such objectives, we provide specific compliance guide- lines that can be promptly implemented into an employee s  daily work schedule, and we also operate consistent training  programs that reflect regulatory trends and properties specific  to each worksite. To minimize risks with legal violations occur- ring in overseas, we hold training sessions for expatriates and  overseas site executives with respect to global regulatory sta- tus and major issues in the corresponding area  and our over- seas worksites voluntarily hold training sessions for their own  employees as well. On top of such training to raise our employ- ee s awareness level on compliance issues, our business depart- ments voluntarily requested compliance education, and we pro- vided training programs tailored to employees  different level of  awareness and compliance risks. 
Annual Compliance Training 
Footnote:  1) Subject of online training changes each year 
114 Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Appendix Highlight 
Method Topic Description Target 
All domestic employees Online1) 
Domestic  International   Anti-Corruption Compliance 
Specific Compliance Training 
Basic Compliance Training 
Area-specific compliance training  on fair trade, trade secrets,  personal information, intellectual  property rights, anti-corruption,  and ads 
Detailed inroduction of laws  on domestic interational  corruption 
Global regulatory trends  and our key issues 
Compliance guides and  area-specific key issues 
Occupational caution 
Compliance Management Process 
Prevention 
Monitoring Conduct regular ad-hoc audits  in all operation by dedicated  organizations or staff 
Follow-up  
Management 
New subsidary leaders, expatriates,  (candidate) regional experts delegation,  (candidate) dispatchers 
Offer employee training, provide  area-specific guides, make system- based self-reviews, operate a help  desk, sense and manage new and  revise regulations 
Identify the root causes of issues  through process and result analysis,  make improvements, prevent the  reoccurrence of the same issue  ( e.g. introduce actual cases as part  of training) 
Each division s key managers,   employees requesting special  training 
New employees, career  employees 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 115 
Ethics Management 
Ethics Management Website We provide the Global Code of Conduct to our suppliers, cus- tomers, and other external stakeholders as well as to our  employees through our ethics management website (www. sec-audit.com), and provide a channel to report on any viola- tion. In addition, we also post our Employee Guidelines on our  intranets for our employees to encourage our employees to pur- sue ethics management. 
Our Global Code of Conduct and Employee Conduct Guidelines   are available in a total of 15 languages (including Korean) and  uploaded on our intranet. In 2018, a total of 375 reports were  received through global reporting channels, of which consumer  complaints accounted for 32%, and corruption-related reports  for 20% of the total number of reports. All corruption-related  reports are subject to investigation and if the report is found to  be substantiated, disciplinary actions are taken according to the  severity of the concerned issues. The results are reported to the  Audit Committee twice a year. Separate "Business Guidelines"  are provided to our business partners to establish transparent  transaction practices.  
Reports by type   number of reports per year   Others   Consumer Complaints   Corruption-Related 
Number of reports: 628 
Number of reports: 608 
Total Number of Employees Taking Anti-corruption Training 
Preventative Education on Corruption To promote a transparent corporate culture, the Company pro- vides preventative education on corruption more than once a  year to all employees (offline, online, and audio visual training).  
313,590 317,965 303,445 
2016 2017 2018 
Number of reports: 375 
Tax Risk Management 
At Samsung Electronics, we strive to comply with laws and regula- 
tions in all our business activities and fulfill our tax filing and pay- 
ment obligations, contributing to the national finances and society.  
In addition, we consider legal regulatory compliance as one of our  
top business priorities, while assessing tax risks from a variety of  
perspectives. 
Tax Risk Assessment 
We are committed to preventing any tax risk that can occur during  
business activities, including goods and services transactions, M As,  
corporate restructuring, international transactions, new business  
launches, and changes in transaction terms. As such, when making  
a business decision, our tax-related departments assess tax risks in  
cooperation with external experts and make final decision consider- 
ing various factors, including tax risk assessment results. 
Tax Management Policy 
Key Criteria to Assess Tax Risks related to Business Activities 
116 Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Appendix Highlight 
We comply with the laws and regulations of the   countries in which we do business and fulfill our   responsibilities for transparent tax filing and payments. 
To this end, we maintain an open and transparent   relationship with the tax authorities of each country and   provide relevant factual evidence and supporting   documents upon request. 
Thorough analysis of  specific factual grounds Review of local and  international tax  regulations and practices 
Law Observance and Transparent Tax Filing  Payment 
Scenarios of profits and  costs depending as many  plans as possible 
As we conduct a variety of business   activities in several countries, we strive to  prevent tax risks by identifying legal and  regulatory differences in each country, and  engage only in the transactions that are  appropriate in terms of relevant laws,   regulations and practices. 
Tax Risk Management  
We have a decision-making system for tax risks based on the care- 
ful assessment and reviews, in order to abide by laws and business  
practices. In addition, we meet all tax filing and payment due dates,  
while archiving evidence related to business transactions. We also  
maintain a transparent relationship with taxation authorities and  
respond immediately to requests for data from the related parties.  
Notably, we maintain fair trade prices in transactions with both third  
and related parties in accordance with relevant laws. For interna- 
tional transactions, we trade at prices regulated by law 
Contribution to Local Community Development via Tax  Risk Management 
We serve as a major tax payer and an investor all over the world. We  
contribute to revitalizing the local economy via product and service  
purchases as well as job creation. Furthermore, we contribute to tax  
revenues for governments through sur-taxes and withholding taxes  
as well as corporate taxes. 
Possibilities and  existence of   potential risks 
The employees in charge of tax  management at each subsidiary are  required to comply with laws and  regulations in accordance with our  tax policies and perform their tasks  under the principle of maintaining a  transparent relationship with the tax  authorities. 
Countermeasures   to risks 
Access customers   product through calls,  e-mails or networks to  offer remote counseling   make Live Chat available  on the website 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 117 
Customer Service Management 
Customer satisfaction is one of the fundamental ways to outper- form in an era of global competition and continues to be a focus  for our company. Based on our vision of achieving customer sat- isfaction through innovation in product quality and services,  we have been revamping our customer service operation sys- tem, providing faster and more accurate repair services and  managing all our after-sale service processes in real time via IT   
Customer Service Channels We provide both locally-optimized and global common chan- nels for our global customers to receive after-sales services  swiftly and conveniently. In particular, empathetic services that  our global subsidiaries offer to a variety of customer groups  such as people with disabilities, have been well received. To  control the quality of our wide-ranging services around the  globe, we carry out on-site inspections and training sessions. 
Customer Service Vision and Goals 
Samsung Electronics Service Channels 
Manage all of our after- sale service processes   in real time via IT systems Goals 
Call Center 
Increase customer value  by recognizing customer  needs accurately and  meeting them swiftly 
The Customer Support  menu offers self- diagnosis guidance and  user guide 
Service Requests and Product Enquiries 
Website Samsung   Members App. 
Secure customer satisfaction through product and service innovation 
Increase customer value  by delivering empathetic  services 
Galaxy Consultant We are expanding smartphone consulting services to pro- vide quick answers to simple inquiries at sales stores. Our Gal- axy consultants afford various customer services such as OS  upgrading, account set-up, data movement, application instal- lation, and training and tutorial. 
Samsung Members Application Our Samsung Members application enables our customers to  address issues that occur in product use through FAQs, inquiries,  and self-help features. In 2018, we added the features of making  an appointment to visit a handset service center, and requesting  large-sized home appliance repair and checking the repair sta- tus. In 2019, we plan to apply these features gradually to other  countries, thus bolstering our customer response capabilities.  
No. of Galaxy Consultant 
Improve the speed  and precision of repair  services through constant  innovation in service  operational system  
Store Service   Center Visits 
Product Repair 
Service staff visits  customers for repair,  product pick-up 
Home Visit 
Standard Service Operation We provide standardized services by developing process guide- lines for service centers and call centers, and sharing them with  all of our global subsidiaries through a company-wide work pro- cess standard system. For our regional subsidiaries, custom- ized manuals that reflect their own market conditions are used  for personnel training, with the manuals being shared via our   Knowledge Portal  system. 
Service Quality Inspection We evaluate our service centers on a regular basis, focusing on  service standard implementation, skill, repair equipment, infra- structure, resource management, and financial soundness.  Based on the achievement of improvement targets that ser- vice centers set themselves depending on their size, we provide  incentives, such as a commission increase or awards for top per- formers. 
Service Skill Training We provide our service center managers and repair engineers  with training programs on how to repair new products and han- dle customer requests. Training programs come in the form of  either remote video learning courses or classroom training  depending on product and country characteristics, with video  training content and technical materials available anytime  through our systems. Every December, our headquarters holds  a customer service strategy workshop, which brings together  expatriate employees from service centers at various subsidiar- ies, to review the past year s achievements and formulate new  service strategies for the coming year. In addition, our Regional  Offices, particularly in North America, China, and Europe, orga- nize their own workshops to develop differentiated region-spe- cific strategies.  
24 7 Call Center In Korea, we recently launched a 24 7 call center , to enable us  to address issues as soon as possible, thereby providing cus- tomers with new service experiences. We also plan to expand  this service to other countries. 
Service Quality Control 
118 Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Appendix Highlight 
Customer Communication and Satisfaction 
Global Integrated Voice of Customer (VOC) Management  System We gather voice of customers (VOC) data on product purchases,  repairs, and user guides through our call center and website to  handle customer complaints. Furthermore, we analyze cus- tomer needs via a globally integrated VOC management system  and share them across the company to improve our products  and services. 
Customer Service Satisfaction Survey We conduct a customer satisfaction survey to gain feedback  from those who have experienced our services. Survey out- comes are shared with relevant departments to improve service  areas. Thanks to these efforts, we have seen steady improve- ments in the results of the survey since its inception in 1994. 
Dual Vocational Education in Thailand 
Our business worksites all around the globe cooperate closely  with local communities to operate Dual Vocational Educa- tion (DVE) program for youth. The program trains local youth  in vocational skillsets and techniques, while program partic- ipants can seek their career opportunities at global Samsung  Electronics Service Centers through internships and job rec- ommendations. 
In 2018, 13 of our worksites are taking part in DVE programs.   Our Thailand worksite received the Beneficiary Award from  Thailand s Ministry of Education for social contribution. Since  2016, the Thailand worksite and Office of Vocational Educa- tion Commission have jointly run this program to train local  students on relevant technologies and skills in service engi- neering. In Thailand, 692 students have participated in the DVE  program since its initiation, and 142 of them have stepped into  internship experiences at our customer service centers.  
Students Taking Dual Vocational Education in Thailand 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 119 
2018 Achievements in Customer Satisfaction 
Host    Service Rating Institute 
Evalu- ation 
   Awarded three times   (2015, 2017, 2018) Sam- sung 
Host    Emotion Banking (consulting firm) 
Host    Sotto Tempo Advertising   (research firm) 
   Based on mystery shopping (80%)   and a service satisfaction survey (20%) Evalu- ation 
TOP SERVICE Deutschland 2018 
   Handelblatt (newspaper) 
   Mannheim (university) 
   A review panel conducts interviews,  surveys, and on-site visits, as well as  examines service processes 
   Die Presse (newspaper) 
   Selected as one of Excellence Group  firms (the only manufacturing firm  included in the group)  also chosen as  Innovation of the Year 
   Awarded for two consecutive years  following 2017 
   Won best customer service awards   for mobile phones, TV, and home  appliances 
2018 Best Customer Service 
2018 Top Service Award 
Germany ('18.4) 
Austria ('18.6) 
Spain ('18.10) 
Host    JAKOSC OBSLUGI   (Polish rating agency) 
Evalu- ation 
Host    Servicevalue (research firm) 
Evalu- ation 
   Ranked 1st with a score of 81.7 in the  electronics category Sam- sung 
Host    Jointly organized by a media outlet   and a consumer research group 
Evalu- ation 
Star Quality Service Award by Customer 
Election of Customer Service of   the Year 2018 
Service Champions Austria 2018   (Service Champion No.1 of   the Electronics Manufacturer) 
   Ranked 1st for five consecutive years  (2014-18) in the electronics   (home appliances TV) category 
   Goethe University 
   Based on a survey on customer   satisfaction for 401 companies   in major industries 
   Based on the results of 225 cases  of mystery shopping (140 calls, 50  e-mails, 15 web postings, 10 SNS com- ments, 10 chats) 
   Ranked 1st in IM, VD, and DA   (awarded for two consecutive years  following 2017) 
   Selected as the No.1 based on a cus- tomer satisfaction assessment across  33 industries (involving 80,000   consumers) 
   Awarded Gwiazda Jakosci Obs ugi  2018 ( STAR QUALITY SERVICE   Award by Customer) 
France ('18.10) 
Austria ('18.9) 
Poland ('18.4) 
Host    Call Center Week   ( CCW, the world s   largest customer service   consortium)  
German   Fairness   Award 
   Ranked 1st in electronics    Gold Award in home appliances  Service   Champion   Award 
2018 German Fairness Award, 2018  Service Champion Award 
2018 CCW Excellence Awards: Best  Training   Development Program 
   Awarded for customized online  training content for customer service  representatives (CSRs) by customer  group and product, separate training  programs between entry-level and  experienced CSRs, and a training certi- fication system  
Germany ('18.10) 
   Ranking second in smartphone  services (out of 18 firms) 
US ('18.6) 
2018 Awards in Korea   Product Service Satisfaction 
Global Customer Magazines 2018 
[Customer Contact category]  Home appliance after-sales services  (home visit), mobile phone after- sales services 
1st place award TV, refrigerator, washing machine,  air conditioner, kimchi refrigerator,  smartphone, PC 
120 Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Appendix Highlight 
[Call Center category]   Home appliance services 
36 products ranked 1st   as of the end of 2018 
5 for TVs, 4 for AVs,   3 for smartphones,   1 for tablet, 1 for NPC,   1 for fitness tracker,   2 for home appliances 
Host Korea Management   Association Consulting  
Host Korea Management   Association Consulting 
Consumer Report 
 Korean Customer   Satisfaction Index 
Research Korean Customer   Satisfaction Index 
 Korean Service   Quality Index 
Research Korean Service   Quality Index 
1st place award TV, refrigerator, drum washing  machine, air conditioner, kimchi  refrigerator, smartphone, tablet, PC 
1st place award Vacuum cleaner, smart TV, wash- ing machine, air conditioner, kimchi  refrigerator, refrigerator, notebook,  smartphone 
3 for TVs, 1 for Blue-ray,   1 for HTS, 1 for soundbar,   2 for smartphones, 1 for tablet,  and 1 for home appliance 
Research Korean Standard Well-Being  Customer Index 
 Korean Standard   Well-Being Customer Index 
Research Korean Standard Quality   Excellence Index 
 Korean Standard   Quality Excellence Index 
10 products ranked 1st   as of the end of 2018 
Host Korean Standards   Association 
Host Korean Standards   Association 
1st place award TV, refrigerator, washing machine,  vacuum cleaner, kimchi refrigerator,  air purifier, air conditioner, smart- phone, PC 
Host Academic Society of   Global Business Administration 
1st place award TV, refrigerator, air conditioner,  smartphone, PC 
 Global Customer Satisfaction  Competency Index 
Research Global Customer Satisfaction  Competency Index 
3 for TVs, 1 for soundbar,   3 for for smartphones,   3 for  tablets,   and 1 for home appliance 
Host Korea Productivity Center,  Chosun Ilbo 
10 products ranked 1st   as of the end of 2018 
 National Customer   Satisfaction Index 
Research National Customer   Satisfaction Index 
2 for TV, 3 for smartphones,   1 for tablet, 1 for home appliances 
1st place award Computer and mobile phone   after-sales services 
 Korean Standard Service   Quality Index 
Research Korean Standard Service   Quality Index 
7 products ranked 1st   as of the end of 2018 
Host Korean Standards   Association 
Magazine Que Choisir 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 121 
Performance Summary 
Economic Performance 
Footnote:  1)  Changed the data from 2016 and 2017 according to excluding health    medical equipment business from CE business division 2)  Cost of all products and services purchased by Samsung Electronics for  its business operation 3)  Sum of all social contributions made through donations and other  expense accounts 
Key Financial Performance 
Sales by Business Division   Region 
Sales by Business Division (Absolute  value) 
Sales by Business Division (%) 
Sales by Region   (Absolute value) 
Sales by Region (%) 
Economic Value Distribution   
[Supplier] Procurement costs [Local Community] Social contributions [Shareholder Investor] Dividends [Shareholder Investor] Pay-out ratio [Creditor] Interest expenses [Employee] Remuneration [Government] Taxes and dues by region 
Ratio of Economic Value Ditributed in 2018 
Supplier    63.2  
Local Community    0.2  
Operating profit Net income 
Consumer Electronics    IT   Mobile Communications Device Solutions Semiconductor Device Solutions Display Harman Consumer Electronics    IT   Mobile Communications Device Solutions Semiconductor Device Solutions Display Harman Americas Europe CIS China Korea Asia Africa Americas Europe CIS China Korea Asia Africa 
Asia Korea Americas Europe Others 
Shareholder   Investor    3.9  
4) Dividends paid 5) Interest expenses paid 6)  Sum of salaries, severance payments, and welfare benefits included in  the cost of sales, R D costs and SG A costs   7)  Sum of consolidated income taxes, other taxes, and dues calculated on  an accrued basis 
44.7 100.3 51.2 26.9 
127 444 3,992 17.8 588 24 8.9 19 67 13 1 
201.9 29.2 22.7 
20 45 23 12 - 68.7 38.3 35.6 20.2 39.1 34 19 18 10 19 
Creditor    0.3  
  Based on the consolidated financial statement  
135.2  385  5,826  14.1  655  27.2  15.1  10  81  8  1  
239.6  53.6  42.2  
44.6 106.7 74.2 34.5 7.1 17 40 28 13 2 81 44.4 38.3 31.6 44.3 34 19 16 13 18 
Employee    11.3  
243.8  58.9  44.3  
42.1 100.7 86.3 32.5 8.8 16 37 32 12 3 81.7 43 43.2 33.9 42 34 18 18 14 16 
156  409  9,619  21.9  675  27.8  17.8  6  86  7  1  
  Based on net sales 
Government 7  7.2  
KRW trillion KRW trillion KRW trillion 
KRW trillion KRW trillion KRW trillion KRW trillion KRW trillion % % % % % KRW trillion KRW trillion KRW trillion KRW trillion KRW trillion % % % % % 
KRW trillion KRW billion KRW billion % KRW billion KRW trillion KRW trillion % % % % 
Social performance indicator 
External Contributions   
Footnote:  1) External contributions are based on the resolution of Board 
122 Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Appendix Highlight 
Samsung Welfare Foundation      
Ho-Am Foundation      
Smart Factory      
Management plans for the Social  Contribution Fund for 2018          
Samsung Dream Scholarship  Foundation  
Chungnam Samsung Academy      
Donation of Electronics to celebrate  Samsung s 80th anniversary    
Samsung Life Public Welfare  Foundation    
Sungkyunkwan University  
Samsung Software Academy   For Youth    
2019 Annual Fundraising  
Performance incentive to secondary  suppliers of the DS division    
Contribution 
Approximately KRW  7.5 bilion      
Approximately KRW  4.32 billion    
KRW 499.6 billion      
KRW 2.742 billion      
KRW 12.21 billion            
KRW 25.2 billion  
KRW 41.5 billion      
KRW 15.0 billion  
KRW 19.5 billion      
KRW 1.12 billion    
KRW 4.0 billion      
KRW 60 billion      
   The Social Contribution Fund consists of voluntary  contributions of employees and matching funds raised by  SEC. SEC plans to contribute KRW 12.21 billion in matching  funds in 2018.    The contribution will be used for domestic and  overseas volunteer programs as well as and local social  contribution activities. 
   The contribution was made to support education of  lowincome high school students.  
   The contribution was made to improve education of the  region.    
   Electronics were donated to about 1,500 social welfare  centers to celebrate the 80th anniversary of Samsung.    
   The contribution was made to support education of  lowincome middle school students.    
   The contribution was made to support the Samsung  Medical Center.    
   The contribution was made to support the Foundation s  activities such as the Ho-Am Award.    
   The contribution was made to support Samsung  Scholarship. 
   The contribution was made to support small- and  mid-sized enterprises strengthen manufacturing  competitiveness, foster talent, and achieve sustainable  growth. 
   The contribution was made to provide quality software  education and support job seekers foster capabilities  expected by companies. (Date: Dec 2018 Jun 2024)  
  The contribution was made to fulfil corporate social  responsibilities and help the marginalized. 
   The contribution was provided to 89 suppliers of the DS  division to improve safety accident prevention, boost  productivity, and enable co-growth with suppliers. 
The Board approved  this action at the  meeting held on  January 31, 2018.      
The Board approved  this action at the  meeting held on  February 
The Board approved  this action at the  meeting held on March  23, 2018. 
The Board approved  this action at the  meeting held on April  26, 2018. 
The Board approved  this action at the  meeting held on July  31, 2018. 
The Board approved  this action at the  meeting held on  October 31, 2018. 
The Board approved  this action at the  meeting held on  November 30, 2018. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 123 
Footnote:  1)  Total hours of domestic and global sites employee volunteer work hours    total employees 2)  As of the end of the year, excluding supplier employees stationed in  Samsung Electronics, those who are taking leave, interns, and those  who are taking full-time degree courses 3)  South Korea: Classified according to the law, Overseas: Contractor    apprentice 
Total corporate citizenship management expenditures Total hours of domestic and global sites employee volunteer work hours Volunteer hours per person   
Accumulated no. of Samsung Smart School beneficiaries Accumulated no. of Samsung Smart School beneficiaries 
Total employees   
Employees by Contract Type 
Employees by Age Group 
Employees by Job Functions 
Employees by Job Positions 
Employees by Region 
Employees by Region 
Welfare and Benefit  Expenditure in Domestic  and Global Sites Human Capital  (Diversity and Employee  Development) 
Ratio of Female Employees   Career Development 
Empowering Society 
Corporate Citizenship Program 
Labor and Human Rights 
Global (Excluding Korea) Korea Employees on permanent contracts Employees on fixed-term contracts   Under 30 30 s 40 and older Product development Manufacturing Sales Marketing Others Staff   Managers Executives   Korea Southeast Asia Southwest Asia Japan China North America Central   Latin America Europe CIS Middle East Africa Global Turnover Rate Excluding Korea   Turnover Rate in Korea   
Employees who took childcare leave   Employees who return to work after childcare leave   Daycare center capacity   No. of daycare centers   No. of mentally physically-challenged employees   Ratio of mentally physically-challenged employees   
Product development Manufacturing Sales Marketing Others 
4)  Including those working flexible work hours and other positions 5)  Including the Vice President at global worksites 6)  Ratio of employees who resigned against the average No. of employees  during the concerned fiscal year 7) Scope of data collection: Domestic employees 8) Based on the total number of global employees 
444,789 1,083,849 3.51 
1,401,776 74,192 
308,745 215,541 93,204 304,715 4,030 172,272 93,348 43,125 62,546 194,669 25,836 25,694 248,415 59,014 1,316 93,204 134,386 37,070 25,988 14,445 2,810 842 16.9 5.5 3,459 
3,818 93.8 2,905 14 1,550 1.7 44 17 56 29 37 
2,228,150 85,388 
 385,571  1,259,893  3.93  
320,671 224,213 96,458 316,534 4,137 171,877  100,856 47,938  65,494   203,076   25,266   26,835   256,944 62,406  1,321 96,458 145,577 34,843 25,814 14,711   2592     676 17.1 2.3 3,813 
3,643 94.4 2,905 14 1,530 1.6 45 18 57 30 39 
2,712,024 113,395  
 409,636  1,131,915 3.66  
309,630 209,925 99,705 304,640 4,990 150,565 106,226 52,839  66,328   187,326   25,731   30,245  240,135  68,156  1,339  99,705 137,365 29,110 25,630 14,681 2,552 587 17.9 2.3 4,096 
3,305 95.9 2,980 14 1,538 1.5 43 17 55 31 36 
No. of persons No. of persons 
No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons % % KRW billion 
No. of persons % No. of persons No. of centers No. of persons % % % % % % 
KRW million No. of hours No. of hours 
Social performance indicator 
Footnote:  1)  Including the Vice President at global worksites 2) Based on online offline training, including redundancy 3) Based on online offline training 4) Scope of data collection: Employees in South Korea 5) Total training expenditure   total No. of employees in South Korea 6) Total training expenditure   consolidated sales 7) Total training expenses   labor expenses 
Investment in the   Win-Win Fund 
Supplier Incentive in   Monetary Value    Attendees at Supplier Training 
  Trainees at Supplier Training       
Ratio of female employees   by Region 
Ratio of female employees   by Job Positions 
Career Development 
1st-tier Suppliers Supported for  Their Innovation Initiatives  
Beneficiaries of the Smart  Factory Program       
124 Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Appendix Highlight 
Labor and Human Rights 
Investing in the Competitiveness of Our Suppliers 
Korea Southeast Asia Southwest Asia Japan China North America Central   Latin America Europe CIS Middle East Africa Staff Managers Executives   Employees who received training   Global (Excluding Korea) Korea Average training hours per person   Global (Excluding Korea) Korea Training Expenditures  Total training expenditures   Training expenditures per person   Training expenditure against sales   Training expenditures against remuneration costs   Employees who applied for re-employment  through the Career Development Center   Employees re-employed through the Career  Development Center   Employees re-employed through the Career  Development Center 
    1st-tier suppliers 2nd-, 3rd-tier suppliers     
1st-tier suppliers 2nd-tier suppliers 
1st-tier suppliers 2nd-tier suppliers 
Global (Excluding Korea) Korea 
Samsung Electronics suppliers SMEs without business transactions with Samsung  Electronics 
  8) On an accumulated basis between 2001 and 2018 9) As of 2018, including 3rd tier suppliers 10)  Supported a total of 224 suppliers in 2018, Correction of numerical  errors in 2016 and 2017 11) Based on the total number of global employees 12)  No. of beneficiaries in 2018 didn't included in 2018 performance.   That's because the program in 2018 ended in May 2019 
 759   664   95   13,089   12,673   416  64  19   45  479  39   440   
8,232  6,015   2,217   368   
1117 1,198 0.06 1.1 6,400  
25.3 63.2 41.4 34.9 35.0 14.1 32.5 51.8 12.7 6.3 477 368 109 71 67 80 
 805   632   173   16,209   12,687   3,522 137  22   115  487  66   421   
8,228  6,173   2,054   653   
1097 1,137 0.05  1.0  6,924  
25.3 63.1 39.5 34.8 35.0 14.9 33.6 53.1 13.2 6.8 463 327 136 73.5 68.3 85.6 
877 589 288 18,777 13,673 5,104 124 26   98 0  0 0  
8,339  6,113   2,226  821  
1,469  1,473 0.06  1.2  7,126  
25.2 59.9 40.3 34.4 34.7 14.5 36.5 51.6 14.2 6.3 488 346 142 62.2 57.1 72.8 
KRW 100 million KRW 100 million KRW 100 million KRW 100 million  
% % % % % % % % % % 10,000 persons 10,000 persons 10,000 persons No. of hours No. of hours No. of hours 
KRW 100 million KRW thousand % % No. of persons  
No. of suppliers No. of suppliers No. of suppliers No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of suppliers No. of suppliers No. of suppliers No. of suppliers No. of suppliers No. of suppliers  
No. of persons  
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 125 
 214   109    
 89   60   86   32    
Footnote:  1) Accumulated since 2013 2)  All suppliers excluding those registered less than one years ago (annual  registration) are subject to evaluations conducted in eight categories 3)  Demand that suppliers comply with ISO 14001 or other corresponding  standards in the standard contract form 4)  Based on all domestic employees and employees at the overseas  manufacturing subsidiaries 5) (No. of injuries   No. of annual work hours) x 1,000,000 
 0.086   0.017    
Ratio of CS Career Path  (In-House Certification  Program)  Certified Employees    Customer Satisfaction 
Responsible Management of Our Supplier Work Environment 
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals 
Comprehensive Supplier Evaluation 
Health   Safety 
Compliance Management 
Responsible Marketing and Customer Relationship Management 
Employees who received compliance  training      Reports of the violation of business  integrity   Reports of corruption Reports of consumer complaints Other Employees who received anti-corruption  training    
Third Party Initial Audit (Accumulated)   Third Party Closure Audit (Accumulated)   
No. of suppliers  Onsite Inspections for Suppliers  Conflict  Minearls Management 
Suppliers Evaluated    Suppliers Rated Excellent Ratio of ISO 14001-certified Suppliers   Ratio of OSHAS 18001-certified Suppliers 
Frequency Rate      Injury Rate      
6) (No. of injured workers   No. of workers) x 100 7) Scope of data collection: Employees in South Korea  8) Including redundancy 9)  Based on the data collected from the Samsung Electronics business  integrity website (sec-audit.com) 10) Based on the total number of global employees 11) Among all CS staff 
 18   52   31   313,590   
 210,229   
 0.227   0.044  
2018 2016 2017 Unit 
 244    163   252    
 83  70   86   39  
 260,032   
 608     16   42   42   317,965   
20 32 48 303,445  
0.036 0.008 
 91   64   87   37  
No. of occasions  
No. of suppliers No. of suppliers 
% % % No. of persons  
No. of persons  
Supplier Compliance by Key Third-party Verification Item   
96 94 96 96 100 99   
99 98 100 91 99   
Footnote: 1) Figures that reflect the improvements made 
Labor   Human Rights 
Health   Safety 
Environment 
Management System 
126 Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Appendix Highlight 
Management System Prohibition of child labor Protection of underage workers Work hour management Guarantee of one-day off per week Wages and benefits Humane treatment Non-discrimination 
Occupational Safety Emergency preparedness Occupational injury and illness Physically-demanding work Machine safeguarding Food, sanitation   housing 
Pollution Prevention Hazardous substance management Wastewater solid waste management Air pollution Restriction of product materials 
Business Integrity No improper advantage Disclosure of information Intellectual property Protection of identity Protection of personal information Non-retaliation 
Company Commitment Management responsibility Risk assessment Training Communication Employee feedback Corrective action Management of Business  Improvement Goal 
 97   100   100   83  94 99 98 100 
 100   100   100   100   100  
 100   100   100   100  100 100 100 
 100   100   100   100  100 100 100 100  
 98   91   99   100   100   98  
 100   98   88   100  100 100 96 100  
 100   94   98   100   100  
 100   100   100   100  100 100 100 
 98   100   100   87  97 95 100 100 
 96   94   98   100   100   100  
100 99 99 100 100 99 100 
100 100 92 96 100 98 98 96  
99 100 100 84 95 96 100 99 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 127 
Environment Performance Inditator 
Footnote: 1) Product development projects rated Good Eco-Product or above 2)  Scope of data collection: Seven major product categories (mobile  phones, notebooks, TVs, monitors, refrigerators, washers, and air  conditioners)  3) Accumulated since 2009 4)  Average annual energy consumption against the average annual energy  consumption in 2008 
Product Stewardship 
Development of eco-friendly products    
Eco Invation Energy Efficiency 
Estimated GHG emissions reduction in the product   use phase   Estimated GHG emissions reduction in the product   use phase of the concerned year   Estimated reduction 4) in energy consumption for products   
Eco Invation Resource Efficiency 
Accumulated recovery of end-of-life products   Recovery of end-of-life products in the concerned year 
Recycling of packaging materials   Recycling of products   
Conversion into resources   
  Consumption of recycled plastics Adoption of recycled plastics 
Operational Impact 
Environment and safety Investment Violation of environmental regulations 
Asia Oceania Europe Americas 
Large appliance   IT equipment   Medium appliance   Small appliance   
Scrap metal Nonferrous metal  Synthetic resin Glass Other 
5) Scope of data collection: South Korea 6)  Reclassified according to  Act for Resource Recycling of Electrical  Electronic Products and Automobiles  in South Korea  
 271   444,473  127,911 262,942 53,618 
 7,911   82,867   69,905   7,217   2,597   3,148   71,528  33,597 12,456 20,286 1,482 3,707  30,849   5  
 188   32,232   49  
 312   417,253   140,814   220,015   56,424  
 217   28,486   36  
 9,619   92,195   79,999   5,831   2,421   3,944   79,579   37,379   13,858   22,569   1,648   4,125   35,268   6  
 355   423,229   142,111   226,616   54,502  
 13,934   95,856   83,344   5,008   3,464   4,041   82,739   38,863   14,408   23,466   1,714   4,289  39,226 6.7 
243  26,482  39 
KRW 100 million No. of violations 
Million tCO e Thousand tCO e % 
10,000 Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton 
Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton % 
Footnote: 1)  Calculated in accordance with nation-specific GHG management guide- lines, IPCC guidelines, and ISO 14064 standards 2)  Direct GHG Emissions: the consumption of fuel including LPG LNG,  the  process emission by fluorinated gas use, and so on. 3)  Indirect GHG Emissions: the consumption of purchased electricity and  steam 4)  (Total emissions total consumption total generation)   consolidated  global sales   price index, excluding the sales of the Display Business        Division, price index: Producer price index that was announced by the  Bank of Korea for the concerned year (basis: 2005   1) 5)  Scope of the Data collection: The carbon emissions and water consump- tion of top 500 suppliers was examined, and then calculation were  made in consideration of their respective share of business conducted  with Samsung Electronics. (Changed the date from 2016 and 2017  according to the result.)Scope of the Data collection: The carbon emis- sions and water consumption of top 500 suppliers was examined, and  then calculation were made in consideration of their respective share of  business conducted with Samsung Electronics. (Changed the date from  2016 and 2017 according to the result.) 
Environment Performance Inditator 
Climate Stewardship 
Use of renewable energy 
GHG emissions generated in the workplace 1  
Scope 3 emissions 
Energy consumption in the workplace 
Energy consumption intensity 4  
Water and Wastewater Management 
Water consumption  
Intensity of water consumption 7) 
Wastewater discharge 
Reuse of water 
Rate of water reused 
Supply of ultra-pure water for reuse   
Recovery of ultra-pure water for reuse  
Rate of recovery of ultra-pure water  
Suppliers  water consumption 5) 
GHG emissions intensity 4) 
128 Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Appendix Highlight 
Scope 1 2  
Emissions from suppliers 5) 
Emissions from logistics 
Emissions from business trips 6) 
Industrial water 
Municipal water (tap water) 
Underground water 
Scope 2 3) 
6) Scope of Data collection: Worksites in South Korea 7)  Total consumption   consolidated global sales, excluding the sales of  the Display Business Division 
2016 2017 2018 Unit 
 1,356.47  
tCO2e KRW 100 million 
MWh KRW 100 million 
Ton KRW 100 million 
1,000tCO2e 
1,000tCO2e 
1,000tCO2e 
1,000tCO2e 
1,000tCO2e 
1,000tCO2e 
1,000tCO2e 
1,000tCO2e 
1,000tCO2e 
1,000tCO2e 
1,000tCO2e 
1,000tCO2e 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 129 
Footnote: 1)  Based on the calculation criteria adopted by the country of respective worksites 2) Correction of the calculation error in 2017 emissions 3) Scope of Data collection: Worksites in South Korea 4)  Scope of data collection: changed the data from 2016 and 2017 due to reclassified  according to PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Registers) as of 2018 
Consumption of ozone-depleting   substances (CFC-eq)3)  Workplace Chemicals Management 4  
Waste and Hazardous Waste 
Waste generation  
Waste processed  
Conversion of waste into resources  
Pollutant Management 
Emission of air pollutants  
VOC emissions 2) 
Discharge of water pollutants  
General waste Hazardous waste 1  
Conversion into resources Incineration (outside the Company) Landfill (outside the Company)   
NOx SOx Dust NH3 HF 
COD BOD SS F Heavy metal 
Consumption of chemicals 3) 
Leakage of major harmful  substances 
 1,078,309   728,905   349,404   1,078,309   1,022,686   26,622   29,001   95  
 2,062   635   196   1,197   27   7   131   3,055   1,639   520   598   253   45   5  
2016 2017 2018 Unit 
 1,146,812   760,463   386,349   1,146,812   1,088,979   32,301   25,532   95  
 1,311   685   69   509   38   10  166   3,190   1,771   521   497   386   15   3  
 1,210,521   813,831   396,690   1,210,521   1,157,621   31,377   21,524   96  
 1,060   616   55   281   95   13  211  3,797   2,407   392   649   337   12   2  
1,000 ton No. of occasions  
Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton % 
Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton Ton 
Overview Sustainability Foundation Appendix Highlight 
130 Sustainability Pillars 
Investing in Our Employees 
Verification statement on Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
                                                    TCFD Index 
                     GRI Index 
  Independent Assurance Report 
We read the other information included in the Report and considered whether it was consistent with the Sustainability Information. We con- sidered the implications for our report in the case that we became aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the   Sustainability Information. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information. 
The management of the Company is responsible for establishing reporting principles that meet the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and  Responsiveness in the AA1000APS, measuring performance based on the reporting principles, and reporting this performance in the Report. Our responsibility is to provide a conclusion based on our assurance procedures in accordance with ISAE 3000 and AA1000AS. This report, including the conclusion, has been prepared for the management of the Company as a body, to assist the management in report- ing on the Company s sustainability performance and activities. We do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the manage- ment of the Company as a body and the Company for our work or this report save where terms are expressly agreed and with our prior consent  in writing. 
Non-financial performance information is subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, given the characteristics of the   subject matter and the methods used for determining such information. Qualitative interpretations of relevance, materiality and the accuracy  of data are subject to individual assumptions and judgments. A limited assurance engagement is less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement under ISAE 3000. Consequently, the nature, timing  and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient, appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 131 
Independent Assurance Report 
To the management of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 
We have been engaged by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (the  Company ) to perform an independent assurance engagement in regard to the  following aspects of Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 (the  Report ). 
Scope and subject matter 
The information for the year ended December 31, 2018 (hereinafter, collectively referred to as the  Sustainability information ) on which we  provide limited assurance consists of: 
Assurance work performed 
We conducted our engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000   and AA1000AS   The term  moderate assurance  used in AA1000AS (2008) is designed to be consistent with  limited assurance  as articulated in ISAE 3000.  Our assurance is a Type II assurance engagement as defined in the AA1000AS (2008). 
1)  International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000    Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information   issued by International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board 2) AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008), issued by AccountAbility 
Our work involved the following activities: 
Respective responsibilities of the management of the Company and Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Inherent limitations 
In particular:     We did not attend any stakeholder-engaged activities. Therefore our conclusion is based on our discussions with the management and  the staff of the Company, and our review of sampled documents provided to us by the Company.    The scope of our work was restricted to 2018 performance only, as set out in the scope and subject matter section above. Information  related to the year ended December 31, 2017 and earlier periods have not been subject to assurance by us. 
   The Company s conclusion on meeting the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness in the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles    Whether the non-financial information ( Sustainability management data ), stated in  GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Index (the pages  136 through 139)  is prepared based on the reporting principles set out on GRI Standards with Core option 
1.  Interviews with the personnel responsible for internal reporting and data collection to discuss their approaches to stakeholder   inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness 2.  Visits to the Company's headquarter in Suwon office to understand the systems and processes in place for managing and reporting  the Sustainability Data 3.  Review of samples of internal documents relevant to output from the risk assessment process, sustainability-related policies and  standards, the sustainability materiality assessment matrix and other documents from stakeholder-engaged activities 4.  Evaluating the design and implementation of key processes and controls for managing and reporting the Sustainability Data 5.  Limited testing, through inquiry and analytical review procedures, of the preparation and collation of the Sustainability Data 
Conclusion 
Based on the results of the assurance work performed, our conclusion is as follows 
Recommendations 
As a result of our work, we have provided the following recommendations to the management. 
132 Appendix Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Highlight 
Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Data for the year ended December 31, 2018 is not fairly  stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the Company s internal reporting principles set out on GRI Standard with Core option. 
   Samsung Electronics is a global company that builds networks and conducts business around the world. The report includes the goals,  achievement and activities of some overseas subsidiaries. It is recommended that the scope of collection and reporting of the rele- vant data to be expanded to all global operation sites in order to help stakeholders understand the overall level of the company s sus- tainability. In addition, efforts should be made to enhance transparency in the information collected on sustainability management.  Through this process, Samsung Electronics can communicate to the stakeholders more transparently about the company s systematic  and exemplary management of sustainability issue. 
On the AA1000APS principles     Inclusivity    The Company has collected concerns and opinion through stakeholder communication channels that include those of Customers, Share- holders, Investors, Employees, Suppliers, NGOs, Specialized Institutions, Governments and Media.   Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that material stakeholder groups were excluded from these channels.    Materiality   The Company has identified most relevant and significant sustainability issues through process for identifying material issues.   Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that material issues were omitted in this process.    Responsiveness    The Company has included in the Report its response to the material sustainability issues which are defined through process for identifying  material issues.    Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that there were material deficiencies in the issue management system. 
   The value system of Samsung Electronics  Management Philosophy, Core Values, and Business Principles  expresses the company s  willingness to fulfill its social responsibility. To ensure the effective implementation of this management philosophy, the Governance  Committee within the company s board of directors has been in operation since 2017. It is expected that the committee will act as the  top decision making body in relation to CSR in order to protect the rights and interests of both the shareholders as well as various  stakeholders, and play a pivotal role in ensuring transparent communication. This can increase the credibility of Samsung Electronics   sustainable growth from stakeholders. 
   Samsung Electronics discloses the outcome of its sustainable management into six different categories, also known as the six sus- tainability pillars, which comprises of Product Stewardship, Commitment to the Environment in Our Operation, Enabling People,  Technology for Good, Investing in Our Employees and Sustainable Supply Chain. In the future, it is recommended that the more mate- rialized company-wide sustainability management strategy is reflected in the direction of the six pillars. Moreover, inclusion of Sam- sung Electronics  distinctive strategic approach and results of the analysis of the potential risks identified during the process, which is  not a declarative or rhetorical approach will enhance the sincerity of the company s sustainability management promotion from the   stakeholders. 
Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers Jae-Heum Park, Partner 
Seoul, Korea June 14, 2019 
Korean Foundation for Quality (hereinafter  KFQ ) has been engaged by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (hereinafter the  Company ) to inde- pendently verify its 2018 Greenhouse Gas Emission Report of domestic corporations and 28 overseas subsidiaries. 
It is the responsibility of the Company to compile the Greenhouse Gas Emission Report according to the  Guidelines for GHG emission report- ing and certification of GHG emission trading scheme (Notification No. 2018-78 of Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) ,  GHG Protocol  Scope 2 Guidance  and  ISO 14064-1:2006  and KFQ has responsibility to conduct verification based on  ISO 14064-3:2006  to provide verifica- tion opinion on compliance of the Report against verification criteria. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 133 
Verification statement on 2018   Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Greenhouse Gas Emission 
Introduction 
Verification Scope 
In this verification, domestic corporations and 28 overseas subsidiaries under operational control of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and  reported emission is including Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission. 
Verification Opinion 
Through the verification process according to the  ISO 14064-3:2006 , KFQ could obtain reasonable basis to express following conclusion on  the Greenhouse Gas Emission Report. 
2018 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Greenhouse Gas Emission 
2018.1.1 2018.12.31 Report year 
Verification Scope 
GHG Emission 
1)  2018 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Greenhouse Gas Emission Report was prepared against  Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Green- house Gas Inventory Guideline  developed based on the  Guidelines for GHG emission reporting and certification of GHG emission  trading scheme ,  GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance  and  ISO 14064-1:2006 . 2)  As a result of materiality assessment on 2018 domestic Greenhouse Gas Emission, material discrepancy is less than the criteria of  2.0% for the organization which emits more than 5,000,000 tCO eq year in accordance with the requirements of the  Guidelines of  verification for Greenhouse gas emission trading scheme . 3)  For the 28 overseas subsidiaries, document review was conducted for entire 28 subsidiaries and sampling on-site assessment was  conducted for 4 subsidiaries, 2 in the US, 1 in Thailand and 1 in Malaysia, as well as Company self-assessment. The result of material  discrepancy is less than 2.0%. 4)  As reported Greenhouse Gas Emission purchased electricity, process emission by fluorinated gas use and LNG consumption take  more than 99% of total emission. Activity data of these emission sources were checked through the objective evidence provided by  supplier therefore KFQ could confirm that these activity data is valid itself. 5)  However, verification opinion regarding to the relevant error caused by emission reduction efficiency of emission reduction tech- nologies in process emission which affect Greenhouse Gas Emission was not considered. It is because of the efficiency has to  be assessed and confirmed by the Government or related specialized agency but it was developed by Company according to  the Company own methodology.                    For the overseas subsidiaries, each national net caloric value and electricity emission factor were preferentially used but net caloric  value and electricity emission factor were adopted from IPCC Guidelines or Korean Energy Law Enforcement Regulation and IEA sta- tistics respectively in case of nonexistence of it. Therefore, it is necessary to re-calculate Greenhouse Gas Emission in any change of  these parameters or factors. 6)  Except unconsidered emission source in the  Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Greenhouse Gas Inventory Guideline , material error,  omission or insignificant issues was not found in 2018 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Greenhouse Gas Emission Report. 
Direct Emission (Scope 1) 
Indirect Emission (Scope 2) 
Southeast Asia 
President   CEO Korean Foundation for Quality   Seok Un Yoon 
unit: kiloton CO  eq 
April 29th, 2019 
TCFD Index 
From 2019, Samsung Electronics starts to disclose climate-related financial information according to TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related   
Financial Disclosures) recommendations. We strongly believe engaging in TCFD would enhance our responsibility towards investors,   
lenders, insurers, and other stakeholders.  
  Governance : Disclose the organization s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities. 
  Strategy :  Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization s businesses, strategy, and financial  planning where such information is material. 
134 Appendix Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Highlight 
a)  Describe the board s oversight of   climate-related risks and opportunities.          
a)  Describe the climate-related risks and  opportunities the organization has   identified over the short, medium,   and long term.                      
b)  Describe management s role in assessing  and managing climate-related risks and  opportunities.            
b)  Describe the impact of climate-related risks  and opportunities on the organization s  businesses, strategy, and financial planning.                
c)  Describe the resilience of the organization s  strategy, taking into consideration different  climate-related scenarios, including a 2 C   or lower scenario.         
TCFD recommendation Samsung Electronics  Disclosure Source Reference 
2018 CDP Climate Change    survey response: CC1.1a, CC1.1b          
2018 CDP Climate Change    survey response: CC1.2a              
2018 CDP Climate Change    survey response:   CC2.2c, CC2.3a, CC2.4a, CC3.1c                  
2018 CDP Climate Change    survey response: CC2.5, CC2.6              
2018 CDP Climate Change    survey response: CC3.1c, CC3.1d          
The board oversees climate change-related issues through its  regular meetings. Global EHS Center under CFO and Global  CS Center are responsible for identifying and reporting cli- mate change-related report agendas. Examples of quarterly  agenda include the status of eco-friendly product certifica- tion, greenhouse gas emissions and energy usage.    
Our Global Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Center, under  the direct leadership of the CEO, actively manages EHS includ- ing climate change.  The CFO serves as the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) and operates  the Risk Council with the heads of various functions includ- ing Global Environment, Health   Safety Center, Public Affairs,  etc. CFO also leads Environment and Safety committee 3 times  a year, deliberated on green management and GHG issues.   
In short-term, pricing of GHG emissions (carbon tax and or  GHG emissions trading scheme), severity of extreme weather  events and changing customer behavior are identified as  potential risks whereas new products or services development  via R D and innovation is considered an opportunity. In mid- term, shift in consumer preferences and participation in carbon  market are identified as opportunities.   Lastly, as set out in our Eco-Management 2020 strategy, effec- tive mitigation of GHG emissions and strategic approach for  emissions trading scheme are considered the salient issues  in long term.           
Within the business, the climate-related risks and opportuni- ties have impacted on our products and services, supply chain,  adaptation and mitigation activities, investment in R D, and  other operation. In products and services, for instance, we have  been accelerating development of energy-efficient products.  Within our seven product categories of refrigerator, wash- ing machine, TV, monitor, laptop, and mobile phone, energy   efficient products now account for about half of total revenues  in 2017.  
Samsung Electronics established a strategy to effectively  reduce GHG emission while considering 2 C scenario. We are  reviewing the company-wise strategy by using RCP 2.6 sce- nario and Energy Technology Perspectives (ETP) 2016 data of  International Energy Agency (IEA). In order to reduce Scope 3  emissions, we will continuously cooperate with our suppliers.  
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 135 
  Risk Management :  Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks. 
  Metrics and Targets :  Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such   information is material. 
Footnote: 1)Scope 3 includes emission from suppliers, logistics, and business trips 
a)  Describe the organization s processes for  identifying and assessing climate-related  risks.                
b)  Describe the organization s processes for  managing climate-related risks.              
c)  Describe how processes for identifying,  assessing, and managing climate-related  risks are integrated into the organization s  overall risk management. 
a)  Disclose the metrics used by the   organization to assess climate related   risks and opportunities in line with its   strategy and risk management process.                    
c)  Describe the targets used by the   organization to manage climate-related  risks and opportunities and performance  against targets.  
b)  Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if   appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas   (GHG) emissions, and the related risks. 
TCFD recommendation Samsung Electronics  Disclosure Source Reference 
2018 CDP Climate Change    survey response: CC1.2a, CC2.2b                
2018 CDP Climate Change   survey response  CC11.3                      
2018 CDP climate Change   survey response : C4      
2018 CDP Climate Change    survey response: CC2.2d              
2018 CDP Climate Change    survey response: CC2.2    
2019 Sustainability Report:   page. 128  
We have set intensity-based GHG emissions reduction target    70% reduction by 2020 to 1.55 tCO e KRW 100 million from 5.17  tCO e KRW 100 million in 2008. Our GHG emissions intensity in  2018 was 3.59 tCO e KRW 100 million, 9.45% higher than 2017.  
The CFO serves as the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) and operates the  Risk Council in collaboration with the heads of various func- tions including Global Environment and Health and Safety Cen- ter. The CFO leads Environment and Safety Committee (three  times a year) to review and monitor any important climate-re- lated risks. For urgent issues on climate change, such risks are  reported to CEO and the responsible executives. We also have  bi-monthly climate change report to share any important cli- mate change issues with relevant executives and personnel.   
Samsung Electronics regularly monitors reviews risks iden- tified and global offices are required to report to Global EHS  center about EHS, energy, GHG, renewable-related issues.  These issues are checked via regular conference call meetings.  Risks are reported to Environment and Safety Committee or  GHG Council and decisions are made passed on to the related  departments. The production site s Infra or EHS departments  will carry out risk management procedures according to the  council s decision. 
Climate-related risks are integrated into multi-disciplinary  company-wide risk identification, assessment, and manage- ment processes.          
To measure and manage climate change risk and opportunities,  we used a number of indicators including GHG emissions, inten- sity-based GHG emissions (normalized by sales), energy con- sumption and saving.  Moreover, our Global EHS Center, which makes decisions on  climate change issues, uses internal carbon prices as decision  indicators for investment in energy facilities, energy generation  projects, settlement of in-house carbon credits, and renewable  energy project.  For instance, using internal carbon price led to a shorter pay- back period and corresponding investment decision when  reviewing economics of solar PV project in our Suwon operation  site. 
Scope 1: 4,855 Kton CO e  Scope 2: 10,318 Kton CO e  Scope 31): 15,908 Kton CO e 
GRI Content Index 
General Disclosures 
Organizational  Profile  
Ethics and  Integrity 
Governance 
Stakeholder  engagement 
Reporting  Practice      
136 Appendix Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Highlight 
Aspect GRI No.  '18 Status Page Comments Index Description 
102-17 102-18 102-19 102-20 102-21 102-22 102-23 102-24 102-25 102-26 102-27 102-28 102-29 102-30 102-31 102-32 102-33 102-34 102-35 102-36 102-37 102-38 102-39 102-40 102-41 102-42 102-43 102-44 102-45  
102-46 102-47 102-48 
102-6 102-7 102-8 102-9 102-10  
102-11 102-12 102-13 102-14 102-15 102-16  
102-3 102-4 102-5  
102-1 102-2  
Name of the organization Activities, brands, products, and services  
Location of headquarters Location of operations Ownership and legal form  
Markets served Scale of the organization Information on employees and other workers Supply chain Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain  
Precautionary Principle or approach External initiatives Membership of associations  Statement from senior decision-maker Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior   
Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Governance structure  Delegating authority  Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics  Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics  Composition of the highest governance body and its committees  Chair of the highest governance body  Nominating and selecting the highest governance body  Conflicts of interest  Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Collective knowledge of highest governance body Evaluating the highest governance body s performance  Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Effectiveness of risk management processes  Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Highest governance body s role in sustainability reporting  Communicating critical concerns Nature and total number of critical concerns Remuneration policies Process for determining remuneration  Stakeholders  involvement in remuneration  Annual total compensation ratio Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio List of stakeholder groups  Collective bargaining agreements Identifying and selecting stakeholders  Approach to stakeholder engagement Key topics and concerns raised Entities included in the consolidated financial statements    Defining report content and topic Boundaries  List of material topics  Restatements of information 
4-5 121, 123 123-124 4-5, 90-92   
111-112 76 104 2 102-103   
102-103 103 121-129 
104 77 102-103 104 104   
115 108-110 
108-110 104 108-110 108 108-110 
108-110 108-110 
111-112 108-110 108-110 108-110 108-110 
Refer to the company  website 
Refer to the business  report 
Refer to the business  report 
Refer to the company  website 
Refer to the business  report 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 137 
General Disclosures 
Reporting  Practice              
Management Approach 
Economic  Performance 
Market Presence 
Indirect Economic  Impacts 
Procurement  Practices Anti-Corruption 
Anti-Competitive  Behavior 
Environmental 
Aspect GRI No.  '18 Status Page Comments Index Description 
102-50 102-51 102-52 102-53 102-54 102-55 102-56 
301 301-1 301-2 301-3 302 302-1 302-2 302-3 302-4 302-5 303 303-1 303-2 303-3 
201-4 202 202-1 202-2 203 203-1 203-2 204 204-1 205 205-1 205-2 205-3 206 206-1 
103-1 103-2 103-3 
201 201-1 201-2 201-3  
Changes in reporting   
Reporting period  Date of most recent report  Reporting cycle Contact point for questions regarding the report  Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI content index External assurance  
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary The management approach and its components  Evaluation of the management approach 
Management Approach Direct economic value generated and distributed Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans  
Financial assistance received from government Management Approach Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage Proportion of senior management hired from the local community Management Approach Infrastructure investments and services supported Significant indirect economic impacts Management Approach Proportion of spending on local suppliers Management Approach Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Management Approach Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 
Management Approach Materials used by weight or volume Recycled input materials used Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Management Approach Energy consumption within the organization Energy consumption outside of the organization Energy intensity Reduction of energy consumption Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Management Approach Water withdrawal by source Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Water recycled and reused 
22, 33, 127 22 41, 128 41-128 
105 121 134-135   
1 1 1 1 1 136-139 131-132 
113-115 113-115 113-115 113-115 113-115 
128 41 127 34-35 43, 128 42 43, 128 
48-49 50-57 105 86-87 
No signficant changes  during reporting period 
Refer to the business  report 
GRI Content Index 
Environmental 
Biodiversity 
Emissions  
Effluents and  Waste 
Environmental  Compliance Supplier  Environmental  Assessment 
Employment 
Labor  Management  Relations Occupational  Health and Safety 
Training and  Education 
138 Appendix Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Highlight 
Aspect GRI No.  '18 Status Page Comments Index Description 
304-2 304-3 304-4  
403-3 403-4 404 404-1 404-2 404-3  
305 305-1 305-2 305-3 305-4 305-5 305-6 305-7 306 306-1 306-2 306-3    
306-5 307 307-1 308 308-1 308-2 
401 401-1 401-2  
401-3 402 402-1  
Transport of hazardous waste    
Management Approach Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected  areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Habitats protected or restored IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in  areas affected by operations 
Management Approach Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions GHG emissions intensity Reduction of GHG emissions Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions Management Approach Water discharge by quality and destination Waste by type and disposal method Significant spills    
Water bodies affected by water discharges and or runoff Management Approach Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Management Approach New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 
Management Approach New employee hires and employee turnover Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to  temporary or part-time employees 
Parental leave Management Approach Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes  
Management Approach Workers representation in formal joint management worker health and  safety committees 
Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and  absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 
Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Management Approach Average hours of training per year per employee Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career  development reviews 
34-35 128 128 128 128 40 129 129 34-35 128 129     
46 47 47 91-93 125 93 
72-73 124 80 123  
No significant spills  during reporting period  
We comply with  convertions on the border  control of hazardous waste 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 139 
Public Policy      
Diversity  and Equal  Opportunity    
Non- Discrimination     
Child Labor 
Forced or  Compulsory Labor 
Security Practices 
Rights of  Indigenous Peoples Human Rights  Assessment     
Local  Communities   
Supplier Social  Assessment  
Customer Health  and Safety    
Marketing and  Labeling 
Customer Privacy   
Socioeconomic  Compliance  
Freedom of  Association and  Collective Bargaining 
Aspect GRI No.  '18 Status Page Index Description 
405 405-1 405-2      
408 408-1 409 409-1  
406 406-1 407 407-1  
414 414-1 414-2 415 415-1    
416 416-1 416-2  
410 410-1 411 411-1 412 412-1 412-2 412-3  
417 417-1 417-2  
Management Approach Diversity of governance bodies and employees Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men      
Management Approach Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Management Approach Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and  collective bargaining may be at risk 
Management Approach Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Management Approach Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or  compulsory labor 
Management Approach Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures Management Approach Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Management Approach Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human  rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 
Management Approach Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and  development programs 
Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local  communities 
Management Approach New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Management Approach Political contributions    
Management Approach Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of  products and services 
Management Approach Requirements for product and service information and labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information  and labeling 
Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications  
Management Approach Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and  losses of customer data 
Management Approach Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area  
86-87 125 126 113-115     
48-49 48-57  
72-73 74, 78 74   
72-73 78 72-73 78  
We do not discriminate on  any basis in all processes  including promotion,  compensation and  disciplinary measures 
Code of Conduct  prohibits contribution to  political parties 
Refer to the business  report 
Refer to the business  report 
No violations during  reporting period 
Refer to the business  report 
140 Appendix Sustainability Foundation Sustainability Pillars Overview Highlight 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2019 141 
A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE 
Samsung Electronics   
Sustainability Report 2019 