Sustainability Report 
Message From Our CEO 
August 2020 
The past year has been unlike any other in our lifetimes. The global health  crisis we face today is demonstrating the need to think and act differently,  the value of innovating anywhere and collaborating everywhere, and the  urgency to care for our planet and for one another. 
Over the past 50 years, semiconductor technology has  changed the world.  This industry has blazed a trail in  innovation, trying new ideas, and re-imagining how things  can be better. I strongly believe we are in a privileged  position to shape the future. I also believe that our job as  leaders is to leave the world in a better place. At Applied,  making a positive contribution is at the foundation of our  culture and our vision to make possible a better future. 
We ve taken a holistic approach to our business to  consider our operations, how we work with customers and  suppliers, and how our technology can be used to advance  sustainability on a global scale. We call this framework  1x 100x 10,000x, and we ve used it to set several  challenging new goals and commitments, including: 
In addition, we are reinforcing our Culture of Inclusion  by committing to even greater transparency, clearer  targets and comprehensive training to improve diversity  and inclusion within our company and in the electronics  industry at large. 
  1x   100% renewable energy and 50% reduction  in carbon emissions in our operations by 2030,  backed by our commitments to science-based  targets and TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related  Financial Disclosures) disclosure 
  100x   Our SuCCESS 2030 supply chain  sustainability initiative and 3x30 product goals to  increase the performance of our tools, eliminate  waste and drive productivity   
  10,000x   we have focused our strategy and  investments to build a strong pipeline of  meaningful innovations that will accelerate the  industry s roadmap for more powerful and energy- efficient technologies, including more sustainable  Artificial Intelligence 
You ll learn more about our initiatives in this year s  sustainability report. With the goals and commitments  we have announced in 2020, we look forward to reporting  further progress in future reports. 
It s an exciting time at Applied Materials, and I feel  incredibly fortunate to be in a company that has the  potential to make such a meaningful difference in the  communities where we operate, and to society at large.  Together we are committed to make possible a better  future for everyone. 
Gary E. Dickerson President and Chief Executive Officer 
Sustainability Report 2019 
Table of Contents 
Our 2019 Report Annex, downloadable here, includes key quantitative data compiled in  accordance with the GRI and SASB frameworks and standards. 
Our COVID-19 Response 
About Applied Materials 
Our Sustainability Vision 
Climate Change 
Environmental Health   Safety 
Product Responsibility 
Supply Chain Responsibility 
Our People   Workplace 
Community Impact 
Ethical Leadership 
Sustainability Report 2019 3 
Applied s Pandemic Response 
Applied Materials  business has been identified by the U.S. Department  of Homeland Security as part of the Critical Infrastructure Sectors that the  Federal government deems  essential to ensure the continuity of functions  critical to public health and safety, as well as economic and national security   and that have  a special responsibility in these times to continue operations.   
Supporting Our People   Partners 
Applied responded quickly to put in place precautionary  measures to keep its workplaces healthy and safe, while  ensuring compliance with orders and restrictions imposed  by government authorities, everywhere Applied operates  in the world. 
Applied s top priority during the COVID-19 pandemic  remains protecting the health and safety of its employees  and their families, customers and community. Applied  continues to maintain workplace flexibility such as  working remotely where possible to reduce the number of  people who are on campus each day. Applied is keeping  its critical labs and operations active and continuing to  support customers. In the interest of public health, all  onsite operations are utilizing the minimum number of  people to safely execute tasks and following enhanced  safety and health protocols including screenings, social  distancing, and use of personal protective equipment. 
Applied has a multi-phase plan to return to working  on-site, which takes into consideration factors such as  Applied s business needs, local government regulations,  community case trends, and recommendation from  public health officials. The plan involves multiple phases  that gradually allow additional workers to return while  practicing social distancing and other safety measures.  
Applied Materials is committed to helping those most  impacted by COVID-19. In regions around the world,  Applied and its Foundation are addressing immediate  humanitarian needs while investing resources to combat  the long-term effect of the virus on the nonprofit  organizations in its communities. Applied has shared masks  and equipment to medical facilities, provided blood analysis  systems and sent emergency support to food banks. 
Applied will continue to monitor and evaluate the  COVID-19 pandemic and will work to respond  appropriately to the impact of COVID-19 on its   business, its customers  and suppliers  businesses and   its communities. 
Supporting Communities 
Around the world, we are focused on addressing  immediate needs in the communities where our  employees live and do business, and on working with  key strategic partners to support healthcare workers and  humanitarian non-profits. To date, Applied Materials and  the Applied Materials Foundation have: 
  Funded essential blood analysis systems for  hospitals in Wuhan, China. 
  Provided personal protective equipment,  including masks and hand sanitizer, to  organizations across the U.S. and Europe. 
  Contributed to Doctors Without Borders for their  COVID-19 response in Europe and around the  world. 
  Increased support for local food banks   across the U.S.  
  Funded a program in Korea to ensure access to  nutritious meals for disadvantaged children and  their families. 
  Donated to the Valley Medical Center Foundation  to assist county hospitals and health care centers  in Silicon Valley. 
  Donated to the Regional Nonprofit Emergency  Fund at the Silicon Valley Community Foundation  and to All Together ATX, a joint project of United  Way and the Austin Community Foundation. 
Sustainability Report 2019 4 
 I m glad Applied Materials took early action  by making sure employees  health and  safety are their first priorities . . . It takes a  pandemic to show if you are working in a  company that cares about the employees  or just the profit, reporting to a leader who  knows how to handle uncertainty and be  more flexible, [and have] teammates that  care for each other s wellbeing.  
Applied s Pandemic Response 
Our people are also taking the initiative to provide  assistance. At manufacturing sites in Singapore  Austin,  Texas  and Kalispell, Montana, our engineers used 3D  printers to create safety equipment for their communities,  including face shields and devices to enable touchless  door opening. In India, our design teams collaborated with  medical professionals on sanitation and air flow solutions.  We re also increasing our corporate matching funds to  amplify our employees  impact on COVID-19 relief efforts. 
Looking to the Future 
At Applied Materials, we take seriously our responsibility  to be a good corporate neighbor. Through the pandemic  and after, Applied remains committed to its core  value of making a positive contribution to our people,  communities, and world. 
 LEADERSHIP  COVID19 
Seen on LinkedIn 
Sustainability Report 2019 5 
Data as of fiscal year-end, 10 27 19. Financial information is in USD.  
About Applied Materials 
FY2019 Company Overview Highlights 
Applied Materials is the leader in materials engineering solutions used to  produce virtually every new semiconductor chip and advanced display in  the world. Our expertise in modifying materials at atomic levels and on an  industrial scale enables customers to transform possibilities into reality.  Applied s innovations make possible the technology shaping the future.  
AMAT stock listing on  NASDAQ 
   14.6 billion revenue 
Headquartered  in California s Silicon Valley 
 2.1 billion  R D spending 
Sustainability Report 2019 6 
 22,000  employees worldwide 
 13,300 patents  
About Applied Materials 
In 2019, we expanded our R D capabilities with the  opening of the Materials Engineering Technology  Accelerator (META Center) in Albany, New York. A  state-of-the-art facility, the META Center is designed  to speed customer prototyping of new materials,  process technologies, and devices, allowing Applied and  our customers to pioneer new improvements to chip  performance, power, and cost. The Center also supports  start-ups and early-stage companies in areas such as  Artificial Intelligence (AI), Augmented and Virtual Reality  (AR VR), advanced optics, big data, life sciences, and  autonomous vehicles.  
APPLIED MATERIALS R D ANNUAL INVESTMENT TREND 
USD Billions 
We are a leading player in the semiconductor industry in research and development (R D) investment,  which in 2019 grew to a total of  2.05 billion. 
As an innovation leader, Applied Materials aims to solve  the world s toughest materials engineering challenges. For  more than 50 years, our innovations have fundamentally  changed how the world works and how people interact  with each other through technology. This gives us an  opportunity to truly make possible a better future. 
Please see the Report Annex for more details on   Applied Materials  workforce, revenues, sales, stakeholders,  locations, EHS certifications, and environmental, social,   and governance data. 
Sustainability Report 2019 7 
Our Sustainability Vision 
Applied Materials is aligned behind a vision of using our innovative  technologies and global reach to make possible a better future for  people, for communities, and for our planet. 
A Better Future 
Over the past 50 years, semiconductor technology has  changed the world, and Applied Materials has been at the  vanguard of that change. Our innovations make possible  the technologies shaping the future, but today we know  our ambition needs to expand. Today, we need to make  possible a better future   for people, for communities, and  for our planet. 
The world is facing serious challenges, but we believe  those challenges can be an accelerator for developing  smart technologies that can help create a safer, more  secure world. We believe we re in the privileged position  of helping drive those advances and make a positive  contribution. Because as leaders, it s our job to leave the  world in a better place.  
In 2019, that sense of commitment helped us make  significant progress on our own sustainability journey,  and we re excited to detail those accomplishments in  this report. But we re also excited to discuss additional  strategic commitments we announced in 2020, because  the real story always lies on the road ahead: helping to  make possible a better future. 
2019 Sustainability Highlights 
  Setting a goal to reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2  carbon emissions by 50% by 2030 
  Setting a goal to transition to 100%  renewable power by 2022 in the U.S. and by  2030 globally 
  Launching a robust, company-wide  Environmental, Social   Governance (ESG)  program and integrated strategy 
  Increasing women s employee representation  both in the U.S. and globally and increasing  focus on improving U.S. underrepresented  minorities representation 
  Modifying our product design process to  integrate ESG criteria and targets from the  earliest stages, a program and set of goals  we re calling 3x30 
  Making important changes to the way we  partner with our supply chain, developing  a shared 10-year roadmap called  SuCCESS2030 
Sustainability Report 2019 8 
2019 Awards    Recognitions 
Preferred Quality Supplier Intel 
Most Sustainable Companies   2020 ( 84) Barron s 
Most Sustainable Companies Reranked  by Social Factors, June 2020 ( 81) Barron s 
Green Power Partnership Top 30   Tech and Telecom ( 19) U.S. EPA 
Top Green Power Partners from the  Fortune 500  ( 34) U.S. EPA 
Top 100 Green Power Leader   ( 94) U.S. EPA 
Winning  W  Company 2020 Women on Boards  
Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Human Rights Campaign Corporate   Equality Index 
Best Company for U.S. Veterans U.S. Veterans Magazine 
Military Friendly Company rated Victory Media (GI Jobs) 
Training Top 125 Organizations ( 37) Training Magazine 
Best Places to Work in IT Computer World 
World s Most Admired Companies Fortune 
Best ESG Companies Investor s Business Daily 
STEM Champion GirlStart 
Our Sustainability Vision 
EMPLOYEES SUPPLIERS 
Our Strategy for a Changing World 
Applied Materials  commitment to acting with honesty,  integrity, and responsibility extends to our sustainability  commitments, which bring together our business, our  people, and our supply chain on efforts that help preserve  the environment and protect human health and safety. 
In 2019, we worked to drive those commitments deeper  into the company culture and brand. To inform and focus  this process and to capture a thorough understanding  of our stakeholders  views, concerns, and ideas around  sustainability, we conducted our first comprehensive  Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Materiality  Assessment. This process combined in-depth research,  internal interviews and discussions, an employee survey,  and third-party consultations to surface Applied Materials   key sustainability priorities. From there, we launched  new initiatives to drive sustainability deeper into the  company culture and brand, setting new objectives for  boosting energy efficiency, reducing our carbon footprint,  driving greater responsibility in our supply chain, building  a Culture of Inclusion, and increasing our transparency  through broadened ESG disclosures.  
Robust engagement enables us to understand our stakeholders  views  and interests, and ensure they re reflected throughout our company  planning, operations, and policies. See our Report Annex for more on  how we work with our various stakeholder groups. 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS CUSTOMERS 
COMMUNITY REGULATORS 
ENGAGEMENT  WITH KEY  STAKEHOLDERS 
Sustainability Report 2019 9 
Our Sustainability Vision 
In 2020, knowing the challenges confronting  our world, those efforts should be a given  for every company, in every industry. And at  Applied Materials, we re making a commitment  to think bigger and go further.  
Our industry and our world are at an inflection point.  Advances in AI and the data economy are changing  everything: every industry, every aspect of lives, and the  very nature of what s possible. Next-generation AI will  provide us with analysis, prediction, actionable insights,  and decision-making capabilities well beyond the capacity  of human thinking or traditional computing. With these  tools, we ll be able to accelerate the search for solutions  to climate change, diseases, public health, and other  enormous challenges. We ll also have true, actionable  visibility into every impact of our business, our value  chain, and our products  life-cycle.  
At Applied, we understand that the adoption of these  advances will be limited not only by concerns about  privacy and security, but in particular by their power  
APPLIED MATERIALS SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK 
Our direct  impact and how  we run our  business 
Our industry s  impact, including  those of our customers  and suppliers 
consumption and sustainability impacts. These are  challenges that go beyond just our company, and that s  why we ve begun thinking about our sustainability efforts  through a new framework we re calling 1x 100x 10,000x.  We consider it a model for how businesses should  measure and manage their sustainability impacts in the  21st century. 
Identified Material Issues 
1.  Climate Change   the Environment 
2.  Product Stewardship 
3.  Supply Chain Management 
4.  Diversity   Inclusion 
5.  Community Involvement 
6.  Ethics   Compliance 
How our technology  can be used to advance  sustainability on a  global scale 
Sustainability Report 2019 10 
Our Sustainability Vision 
1x: Applied s Business Operations 
As we think about the journey toward a sustainable  society and environment, we must begin with a  comprehensive understanding of how we as a company  operate and conduct our business.  
Environmental Commitment  In 2019, Applied Materials  carbon footprint (Scope 1  and 2 emissions) was approximately 145,000 metric tons  of carbon dioxide equivalent (C02-e), dominated by the  power needed to run our labs and factories. With the  market for our technologies expected to see strong growth  over the coming decade, we will grow to meet demand     but we do not accept that our emissions will inevitably  increase as a result. 
Applied will instead work to decouple our direct  environmental impacts from our business growth, with  new sustainability targets that will dramatically reduce   our carbon footprint over the coming decade: 
  New Science Based Targets announced in the next  24 months, including Scope 3 emissions goals 
  New commitment to disclose in accordance  with the recommendations of the Task Force on  Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
  100% renewable energy in the U.S. by 2022 
  100% renewable energy globally by 2030  
  50% reduction in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2-e  emissions by 2030 
We will grow to meet  demand   but we do not  accept that our emissions  will inevitably increase as   a result. 
Social Commitment  The social justice movement that shook the world  in 2020 has provided a wake-up call that we cannot  be complacent about the racism, discrimination, and  inequities that afflict so many in our communities. 
At Applied, we celebrate diversity, embrace disparate  perspectives as a key to innovation, and believe that we  are stronger when we stand together for justice. We  pledge to live those values and work to make a real and  sustainable difference. 
We want to ensure that Applied Materials and our  industry as a whole set a standard of what it means to be  a more welcoming, inclusive, and collaborative community  where all people can do their best work and enjoy the  opportunity to succeed and thrive. 
Governance Commitment Applied is committed to being a good corporate citizen and  a trusted partner to our customers, suppliers, shareholders,  and each other. Each member of our workforce and the  Board of Directors plays a part in this commitment by  acting with responsibility and integrity throughout every  workday, treating others with respect and dignity, and  encouraging all voices to feel heard. All Applied employees  are required to abide by our Standards of Business Conduct  and other ethical standards, as enumerated in the Ethical  Leadership section of this report. 
  We will be transparent by continuing to publish  our representation data. We want Applied  Materials to reflect our changing communities,  and we are committed to bringing more women  and underrepresented minorities onto our team  at every level of our company.  
  We will set clear targets for recruiting,  developing, and retaining underrepresented  minorities and women. In the near-term, we are  focused on closing availability gaps in the market.  Then, working with our partners, we want to  significantly grow the pipeline of diverse talent  available to our industry. 
  We will ensure that all our employees are  trained and empowered to listen, learn, and take  action. We re focusing on initiatives to teach our  leaders how to eliminate bias in our business  processes, hiring and placement decisions,  succession plans, and even how we run meetings  so that all voices are heard.  
Sustainability Report 2019 11 
Our Sustainability Vision 
100x: Semiconductor Industry Operations 
The 100x focus is on driving positive sustainability impact  industry-wide through innovation and collaboration. As  an industry, we need to break down barriers and find new  ways to connect the dots between systems designers,  integrators, chip makers, and equipment and materials  suppliers, in the interest of promoting cleaner, more  efficient manufacturing. 
Reducing Semiconductor Manufacturing s   Energy Footprint  Producing semiconductors is an energy-intensive  business. Taken together, the more than 1,000 global  fabrication plants (fabs) operating today are responsible  for some 50 million metric tons of CO2 annually.1 That  carbon footprint includes Scope 1 direct emissions, Scope  2 electricity usage, and Scope 3 other energy usage.  Of that, Scope 2 electricity usage is one of the largest  components, with about half consumed by fabrication  tools and the remainder powering other facility functions. 
1   From commentary on semiconductor sustainability by Dr. Sarah Boyd  (senior consultant, Sphera) at SEMICON West, July 21, 2020. 
The challenge for Applied Materials and our industry as  a whole is to reduce those numbers, particularly in light  of expected growth in demand. That s why we re working  with our customers on an ambitious goal we call 3x30.   On a per-wafer basis, 3x30 will drive: 
We are committed to making this all happen by 2030,  averaged across our product portfolio. 
To meet those goals, we re developing hardware and  software upgrades to reduce energy and process chemical  use. Twenty of these eco-innovations are already available  today, with an additional forty in development. In addition  to being included in our new tools, many of these  improvements are available as upgrades for customers   existing systems. We ve also developed advanced service  products that help customers optimize their systems   eco-performance as well as shorten ramp times and  improve device performance, yield, and costs. At one  leading-edge customer, we project a 15% reduction in  energy consumption across their installed base of Applied  Materials systems once all upgrades and enhancements  have been implemented. 
  A 30% reduction in equivalent energy  consumption 
  A 30% reduction in chemical consumption 
  A 30% increase in throughput density per square  foot of cleanroom space 
Finally, our next generation of tool architectures  significantly improve throughput density: the number of  semiconductor wafers that can be processed per square  foot of cleanroom space. 
These are all meaningful advances toward our 3x30 goals,  and we ll report on our progress in the future. 
Driving Sustainability in the Supply Chain While we re working with our peers and customers to  improve the eco-performance of our products, we re also  making important changes to the way we partner with our  direct suppliers, developing a shared 10-year roadmap  we re calling SuCCESS2030. Shorthand for Supply Chain  Certification for Environmental and Social Sustainability  2030, the program includes three key components: 
1. Setting Standards: We will hold our direct suppliers  to the same standards to which we hold ourselves  in the areas of environmental impact, labor  standards, and diversity and inclusion. 
2. Improving Handoffs: We will work with our  direct suppliers to create efficiencies and reduce  waste in the fulfillment stream.  
3. Sharing Insights: We will partner with our direct  suppliers to share best practices and key learnings.  
Sustainability Report 2019 12 
Our Sustainability Vision 
10,000x: Global Electronics Impact 
When a business sends product out into the world, its  responsibility can t stop at its corporate walls. Unlike many  businesses, however, we are in the privileged position of  creating a product with the potential to solve the problems  it creates and more   helping build a cleaner, safer world  of optimized efficiency and minimized waste. 
Today, technologies like AI and edge computing offer  unprecedented possibilities, but leveraging them  responsibly means dealing first with their power  consumption. With current technology, today s  datacenters consume about 2% of the world s electricity    a figure that could jump to 15% by 2025 without major  advances in the Power, Performance and Area-Cost  (PPAC) of semiconductor devices. 
Accelerating the PPAC playbook to improve compute  performance per watt will require new system  architectures, new application-specific chip designs,   new ways to connect memory and logic, and other  advances. Applied Materials is prepared for that  challenge, with the industry s largest and broadest  portfolio of technologies and products to address our  customers  most complex challenges. 
UN Sustainable Development Goals 
Aligning with the UN Sustainable   Development Goals 
As our 1x 100x 10,000x framework aligns our  sustainability vision across the full span of our business  and value chain, we also seek to align our efforts with  governments, industries, institutions, and individuals  worldwide in support of the UN Sustainable Development  Goals (SDGs), the world body s blueprint to achieve a  better and more sustainable future for all.  
Adopted in 2015, the SDGs seek to make transformational  progress on 17 interconnected global issues related  to poverty, inequality, climate change, environmental  degradation, and peace and justice, all by a target date of  2030. Companies around the globe are integrating   the SDGs into their corporate strategies and adopting  related targets. 
This 2019 report marks the first time we have aligned our  reporting against the SDG framework. In the table below,  we identify where our company initiatives are supporting  progress towards specific SDGs. 
For Applied Materials, supporting the SDGs with concrete  action is an important part of our roadmap to success,  both as a company and as a stakeholder in tomorrow s  sustainable society.  
Sustainability Report 2019 13 
Sustainability Report 2019 13 
Our Sustainability Vision 
APPLIED MATERIALS  ASPIRATIONS, SDG ALIGNMENT   GOALS 
Climate Change 
Strategic   Focus Aspiration Our Goals Target  Year SDG Alignment 
Energy     Emissions Maximize energy  efficiency across our  operations 
Environmental Health   Safety 
Health     Safety Establish and  implement EHS  policies and  procedures to protect  worker health and  safety 
Product Responsibility 
Design for  Sustainability Design safe, long- lasting, reusable or  recyclable products to  minimize the use of  natural resources and  allow our customers  to create sustainable  products 
Reduce our impact  on the environment  by conserving  energy throughout  our operations,  increasing our use of  renewable energy,  and supporting  development of new  renewable energy  sources 
  Reduce Scope 1 and  Scope 2 emissions  by 50% from a 2019  baseline 
  Source 100% of our  energy from renewable  sources  
  Maintain total case  incident rate (TCIR) at  0.46 or below 
For all semiconductor  products: 
  Reduce equivalent  energy consumption  30% 
  Reduce chemical  consumption 30% 
  Increase throughput  density per square foot  of cleanroom space 30% 
Sustainability Report 2019 14 
Our Sustainability Vision 
Product Responsibility 
Human Rights Commit to protecting  human rights  wherever we do  business and to  conducting business  in an ethical and  responsible manner 
Strategic   Focus Aspiration Our Goals Target  Year SDG Alignment 
Waste Reduce resource  consumption  and product and  packaging waste  through material  minimization, reuse,  and recycling 
Supply Chain Responsibility 
Overall  Responsibility Manage our supply  chain responsibly,  including by  increasing supplier  diversity 
Responsible  Sourcing Commit to the  responsible sourcing  of materials used in  our products 
Hold our suppliers  to higher standards,  improve handoffs,  and share insights  through our new  SuCCESS2030  initiative 
  Increase use of reusable  packaging 
  Transition to new  crate design with 50%  reduced wood content  due to use of corrugated  Kraft cover 
  Hold our supply chain to  our own environmental,  labor, and diversity and  inclusion standards 
  Work with our suppliers  to create efficiencies  and reduce waste in the  fulfillment stream 
  Partner with our  suppliers to share  best practices and key  learnings 
  Go beyond our conflict  minerals commitments  by conducting due  diligence on our supply  chain s use of cobalt  and other minerals of  concern 
  Publish a Human Rights  Statement or Principles  2021 
2021    Ongoing 
Sustainability Report 2019 15 
Our Sustainability Vision 
Our People   Workplace 
Strategic   Focus Aspiration Our Goals Target  Year SDG Alignment 
Diversity Establish and embed  a Culture of Inclusion,  Diversity, and  Engagement to drive  our goal to become a  destination employer  that enables everyone  to deliver their  best work, driving  innovation and high  performance 
Learning    Development Foster personal  and professional  development for all  our workforce through  on-site resources  and online platforms  that promote career  development, improve  overall motivation,  and help employees  manage every stage  of their careers 
  Increase women s  representation globally  
  Increase U.S. women s  representation to 21%  by 2021  
  Increase  underrepresented  minorities   representation in our  U.S. workforce  
  Close U.S. talent  pipeline gaps by  three employee levels  (executive, managers,  and professionals) 
  Demonstrate  improvement in the  inclusion measurement  on OHI Survey 
  Pursue more  integrated training and  development across the  enterprise for key talent  strategy initiatives 
2021    Ongoing 
Sustainability Report 2019 16 
Our Sustainability Vision 
ESG Oversight   Management 
Applied s executive leadership drives our company-wide strategy on ESG matters and reporting, primarily at the  vice president level (directing the work of our various functional teams). ESG leadership is further supported by our  Board of Directors in an oversight role. And, in 2020, we announced the appointment of a Director of ESG, Corporate  Sustainability, and Reporting to lead ESG efforts across the business.  
See the Report Annex for more detailed information on ESG management and oversight. 
Community Impact 
Strategic   Focus Aspiration Our Goals Target  Year SDG Alignment 
Charitable   Giving,  Volunteerism    Community  Investment  
Ethical Leadership 
Ethics    Compliance Broaden our  ESG-related  disclosures to  increase transparency  and stakeholder  outreach 
Make strategic  financial and human  investments in the  communities where  we live and in the  world around us 
  Continue to drive female  empowerment through  our Generation Girl   program 
  Leverage grant-making to  meet societal needs such  as racial equity and the  impacts of COVID-19 
  Engage employees in  volunteer efforts 
  Continue to set the  highest standards in  ESG-related disclosure  and performance 
Sustainability Report 2019 17 
Our Sustainability Vision 
About This Report 
In 2005, Applied Materials published our first Corporate  Social Responsibility (CSR) report. Since then, corporate  sustainability and our own mission have progressed in  parallel with the scientific consensus on climate change  and evolving perspectives on social justice. Today, it is our  deep belief that our role as a corporate leader is to make  the world a better place   to make possible a better future. 
To ensure our sustainability strategy and reporting  practices are as ambitious as our vision, we devoted  significant efforts in 2019 to redefining our ESG  approaches, and we ve rebranded our annual publication  as a sustainability report to better reflect its breadth and  depth of content.  
Published on behalf of Applied Materials, Inc. and  its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as  Applied  Materials,   Applied,  or  the company ), this report  expands Applied s previous sustainability disclosures and  transparency through: 
  Incorporating results of a materiality  assessment completed in 2019 
  Reporting in accordance with the Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Sustainability  Accounting Standards Board (SASB)  frameworks and standards for the first time 
  Preparing for future reporting aligned   with the Task Force on Climate-related  Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework  and standards 
  Demonstrating our alignment with select  United Nations Sustainable Development  Goals (SDGs) 
  Disclosing various metrics for the first time,  including supplier diversity information  data and water use in areas of high   water stress 
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards form the  most popular voluntary sustainability reporting framework  used by companies around the world, designed to adhere  to all stakeholder interests. This report has been prepared  in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. A GRI  Content Index is provided in the Report Annex.  
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  (SASB) has developed a voluntary, investor-focused  sustainability accounting framework to complement  Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) reporting  standards. This report aligns with SASB s industry- specific standard for the Technology   Communications  Sector   Semiconductors. This is our first year using SASB  disclosure recommendations. A SASB Table is provided in  the Report Annex. 
The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures  (TCFD) has developed a voluntary framework for  companies to report on their climate-related financial risk  disclosure. Unlike GRI and SASB, the TCFD framework is  specific to issues related to climate change and emissions.  
This sustainability report provides a comprehensive  examination of Applied Materials  sustainability journey,  our performance for 2019, and a look at our sustainability  vision and progress for 2020 and beyond. Except where  indicated, reporting is specific to Applied Materials  global  operations for fiscal year 2019 (FY2019), beginning  October 29, 2018, and ending October 27, 2019.  
We did not seek external assurance for this report, but we  are exploring such assurance of our ESG-related data for  future reports.  
Additional details on the company s operations and  activities in specific areas are included in About Applied  Materials and the Report Annex. 
We would like to hear from you. Please direct questions or  comments regarding this report to our sustainability reporting  team at: corporate responsibility amat.com 
Sustainability Report 2019 18 
Climate Change 
Fighting climate change means bringing all our skills  and technology innovations to bear   as a company, an  industry, and a society. We re ready to do our part. 
Sustainability Report 2019 19 
Innovation for a Healthier Planet 
At Applied Materials, we know that fighting climate change  requires a deep commitment to improved efficiency, cleaner  energy, and the groundbreaking technology innovation that will  drive tomorrow s climate solutions.  
1  The energy and emissions data tracked and disclosed in this  report originate primarily from information provided on a  calendar year basis by utilities and other third parties. 
In 2019 2020, we sharpened our   focus on all these imperatives by: 
  Setting a target to reduce Scope 1 and  2 carbon emissions 50% by 2030  
  Announcing our intention to set a  Scope 3 emissions reduction target  within two years 
  Setting a target of sourcing 100%  renewable power in the U.S. by 2022  and globally by 2030 
  Providing the most resource-efficient  products and services possible to help  our customers minimize their own  climate impacts1 
  Introducing a new industry-scaled  focus on how our technology can  advance sustainability globally 
Additionally, we have committed to setting science-based  targets through the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi),   a process that helps companies focus the development of  new technologies and operational practices, stay ahead  of future climate-related regulations, strengthen investor  confidence, and promote efficiency and resilience to future  climate risks.  
These goals and strategies are core components of our  1x 100x 10,000x sustainability vision, and also align with  our people s and customers  values while lowering our costs  through improved efficiency.  
Management of our climate policy and goals resides with  our Environmental Health   Safety and Sustainability  (EHS   Sustainability) function, further information on  which can be found here. Tracking and publicly disclosing  our emissions and other climate impacts annually via  the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Climate Change  questionnaire is an integral part of our management  approach.  
Scope 1 and 2 Carbon  Emissions reduction by 2030 50% 
Sustainability Report 2019 20 
GHG Emissions Classification 
Scope 1   Direct Emissions from company  facilities, fleets, etc. 
Scope 2   Indirect Emissions from electricity  purchased and used by the company 
Scope 3   Other Indirect Emissions from company  activities via entities beyond its ownership or  control (procurement, shipping, distribution,  waste, etc.), as well as business travel and  employee commuting 
Climate Change 
Managing Climate Risks 
Applied Materials monitors potential climate-related risks  on an annual basis, with responsibility for identifying  company-wide and site-specific risks resting with a core  team of global emergency response, crisis management,  and business continuity personnel, as well as local  facilities teams. Our risk identification, mitigation, and  management plans help ensure our ability to recover  quickly from climate-related events and effectively  support our customers  and suppliers  operations.  
Applied anticipates higher capital costs as global  temperatures rise, owing partially to the need for  increased HVAC capacity and the potential for weather- related impacts to our facilities. Procuring a higher  percentage of our energy from renewable sources may  also increase overall costs, but these costs are offset  through reducing our reliance on carbon-based energy,  with its attendant price volatility. 
Applied Materials supports transparency related to  the financial risks of climate change, to help investors,  lenders, insurers, and other stakeholders better  understand our climate risks. We are supportive of the  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures  (TCFD), which has developed a voluntary framework for  companies to report on their climate-related financial  risk disclosure. In 2020, we partnered with Trucost, an  S P Global company, to support our climate-related  risk assessment and resilience plan in line with TCFD  guidelines. This engagement will include a quantitative  and qualitative assessment of our assets  physical  climate-related risk exposure under high, moderate, and  low climate change scenarios. We recently completed  interviews with key executives across the business to  identify climate-related risks and opportunities associated  with the transition to a low-carbon, climate-resilient  economy, and will disclose those findings and further  expand our transparency as we prepare to report in line  with TCFD recommendations.  
Applied is in the Top 100 of the U.S.  EPA s April 2020 list of Green Power  Leaders for helping to reduce the  negative health impacts of emissions  related to ozone, fine particles, acid  rain, and regional haze. 
Sustainability Report 2019 21 
Emissions Data Through efforts to increase efficiency, resource  conservation, and greater use of renewable energy,  Applied Materials remains focused on maximizing  energy performance and minimizing consumption. In  recent years, despite rapid operational growth, we have  succeeded in keeping our energy use and GHG emissions  relatively flat through a combination of: 
We have identified Scope 2 electricity consumption as  having the greatest potential impact on achieving our  stated energy and emissions targets. Looking forward, we  anticipate our Scope 3 emissions to be much higher than  Scope 1 and 2 combined. To date, we have not yet set a  Scope 3 emissions reduction target, but will do so as part  of our commitment to setting science-based targets. 
After experiencing a total annual carbon reduction of just  0.2% in 2017, we set a year-over-year GHG emissions  reduction target of 1% for 2019 over 2018. We met and  beat this target, achieving a 4% emissions reduction. 
Air emissions from our manufacturing processes are  treated with point-of-use abatement units and facility  scrubbers before being discharged to the atmosphere,  consistent with our local or regional air permits  requirements. 
Climate Change 
  Routine energy-use monitoring and   energy audits 
  Optimizing the temperature of water used   in our operations 
  Building optimal energy efficiency into   all new construction 
  Purchasing only the most energy-efficient   new equipment 
  Employing emissions-control technologies 
  Increasing our focus on clean, renewable energy 
GHG Emissions Data   (in thousand tCO2-e) 
tCO2-e of total Scope 1     Scope 2 per employee   6.26   6.79   8.44  
tCO2-e of total Scope 1    Scope 2 per million  dollars of revenue  9.95   9.10   11.44  
Energy Intensity 
MWh of energy  consumed per employee  16.86   16.52  17.52 
MWh of energy  consumed per million  dollars of revenue  26.82   22.14   23.73  
GHG Emissions Intensity 
Scope 2 Electricity 103.1 113.5 131.6 
Scope 1   Scope 2 145.4 151.9 168.1 
Scope 3 (Employee Travel) 30.0 35.9 17.3 
Process Gas 18.2 14.2 13.5 
Natural Gas 22.4 23 22.1 
Refrigerant 1.7 1.3 0.8 
Total   Scope 1 42.2 38.5 36.5 
2019 2018 2017 
Sustainability Report 2019 22 
Climate Change 
Reducing Our Carbon Footprint Applied Materials is committed to decoupling our growth  as a company from our total carbon footprint, embracing  an efficient, clean-energy future where prosperity and  sustainability go hand-in-hand. This is how we shift to a  thriving, low-carbon economy. 
Our progress rests on increasing energy efficiency,  boosting our use of renewables, and reducing energy  use overall. As we maintain and improve our facility  infrastructure, we are advancing energy efficiencies in our  buildings by using more energy-efficient building materials  and equipment. We are also planning to increase our use  of purchase agreements of renewable energy. 
Big Business, Small Emissions  
The U.S. electronics manufacturing industry,  of which semiconductor manufacturing is a  part, is responsible for approximately 0.2%   of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions   while  also being among its top export sectors. 
   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency  GHG Reporting Program, using 2018 data 
  6.3 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents   (tCO2-e) out of 2,987 million total 
Share of Renewables in  Our Energy Mix: Global  Facilities   Operations 
2  This number was updated from the figure reported in our 2018 CSR  Report, which had inadvertently included renewable energy that we are  not permitted to claim under the California Renewable Portfolio Standard. 
Boosting Renewable Energy 
We are committed to doing our part to achieve a  low-carbon future. We ve already boosted the share of  renewable power in our energy mix, and in 2020 we set  a long-term target to source 100% of our energy from  renewables by 2030, with an important intermediary step  of reaching that goal in the U.S. by 2022. With our recent  signing of a power purchase agreement (PPA) to support  a new 500 megawatt wind energy project in Crockett  County, Texas, we are well on our way to achieving this  target and contributing to decarbonizing the grid. 
Our sources of renewable energy include or will include: 
Renewable energy used as a  percentage of overall energy use 27% 29% 18% 
  On-Site Generation: Renewable power generated  by company-owned renewable energy sources  (i.e. solar) 
  Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs):  
  Virtual Power Purchase Agreements: Financial  contracts that provide RECs from a specific  renewable energy project not located on  company property 
  Utility Green Procurement Programs: Direct  purchase of renewable energy from a utility  provider 
Market-based instruments that represent the  environmental benefits of 1MWh of electricity  generated from renewable energy (RE) sources,  providing reductions in our Scope 2 emissions 
Sustainability Report 2019 23 
 2019 20182 2017 
Climate Change 
Applied Materials On-Site Solar Power Generation 
3 We were unable to track 2019 generation due to a malfunction in the tracking system.  
Power Purchasing In the U.S., Applied Materials uses over 100,000 MWh of  green power annually   nearly 39% of our U.S. operation s  total power needs. This figure represents energy from  utility renewable energy programs, on-site generation, and  our purchase of RECs. 
In April 2020, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency s  Green Power Partnership ranked Applied Materials as a  top-100 user of green power in the U.S., recognizing our  leading purchases of renewable energy. The Green Power  Partnership is a voluntary initiative of over 1,500 partners  working together to advance the U.S. market for green  power and related developments. Applied is also ranked  19 on the partnership s Top 30 Tech   Telecom list and 34  among Green Power Partners on the Fortune 500  list.  
Facility Location Year   Installed Power  Capacity 2019 Annual  Generation Notable 
Sunnyvale,  California 2008 Almost  2,000 kW 
Austin, Texas 2007 24kW 27 MWh Eliminates 54,390 pounds of CO2 emissions  each year, roughly equal to planting eight  acres of trees. 
TOTAL 3,500 MWh  annually  (approximately) 
Xi an, China 2008 56 kW 44 MWh Reduces GHG emissions by more than 65  tons per year. 
Singapore 2010 400 kW   peak system 317 MWh 
Historical annual  generation has  been over 3,000  MWh3  
On-Site Solar Power Generation Applied Materials  clean power initiative has led to  the installation of solar arrays at four of our facilities  worldwide, beginning in 2007 in Austin, Texas. These four  arrays have provided us with cost-effective renewable  power, contributing to a 2019 renewable energy rate of  27% across our global operations.     (See Energy Data table on next page) 
Includes 8,000 wafer-based solar panels  manufactured using Applied equipment. 
Panels track the sun throughout the day,  increasing sunlight capture by 30% over  traditional systems. Replaces carbon  equivalent to the emissions from 450  passenger cars for one year. 
The largest thin-film solar system in  Singapore. Awarded the Green Mark Platinum  award, the nation s highest environmental  honor, by the Singapore Building and  Construction Authority.  
Sustainability Report 2019 24 
Climate Change 
Energy Data   (in megawatt hours) 
GreenChoice is the renewable energy utility program in Austin, TX, to which our Harris Branch location subscribes. Community Choice is the  renewable energy program for Sunnyvale, CA. 
Reducing Scope 3 Emissions 
As part of our commitment to science-based targets,  we have commenced calculating our Scope 3 emissions.  To date, employee travel is the only type of Scope 3  emissions we have measured, and we have established  a strategy to reduce this emissions source. Our  semiconductor business unit, field services, and other  teams throughout the company have instituted a travel  control process to track the number of employees  travelling to a single meeting. The business management  unit also created an online portal through which  proposed travel is reviewed to ensure the objectives  cannot be achieved another way, such as by online video  conferencing. 
Applied was growing its use of video conferencing  even before COVID-19 made it mandatory. As physical  workplaces reopen, it is our intention to continue using  these platforms. 
Electricity Consumption  391,735   369,929   348,731  
Total Renewable Energy  105,583   105,662   62,638  
Renewable Energy Rate 27% 29% 18% 
Credits from Community Choice  43,132   39,679    
Solar Total (Onsite Generation)  391   3,403   3,456  
REC Total (Unbundled RECs    GreenChoice)  62,060   62,579   59,182  
CY 2019 CY 2018 CY 2017 
Sustainability Report 2019 25 
Environmental   Health   Safety 
In addition to our climate commitments, Applied  Materials is dedicated to reducing waste, conserving  resources, and protecting the health and safety of our  people, customers, and communities. 
Sustainability Report 2019 26 
Globally, Applied Materials considers environmental  impacts as part of every significant decision we make,  throughout our business operations. Our Environmental  Health   Safety Management System (EHSMS) is  designed around five guiding principles: 
Lorem ipsum dolor sit sagittie 
Working Toward a   Cleaner, Safer World 
Climate change is only one of the environmental challenges we ve  committed to addressing as we transition to a more sustainable future.  
1. Maximizing Energy Efficiency   Reducing  Emissions: Reducing our impact on the  environment by conserving energy throughout  our operations and supporting renewable energy  sources 
2. Designing for the Environment: Designing safe,  long-lasting, reusable or recyclable products and  minimizing use of natural resources to support  our customers in creating sustainable products 
3. Ensuring Safe Work Environments: Establishing  EHS policies and procedures, evaluating  chemicals against stringent safety parameters,  and employing appropriate engineering controls  when warranted 
4. Reducing Waste: Reducing product and  packaging waste through material minimization,  reuse, and recycling 
5. Conserving Natural Resources: Minimizing our  resource consumption by using recycled materials  and process water 
Efforts to ensure safe and healthy work environments,  reduce waste, conserve resources, and demonstrate  environmental leadership in our communities are detailed  in the pages that follow. 
Our energy emissions and product design principles  and efforts are discussed in detail the Climate Change  and Product Responsibility sections of this report. See  the Report Annex for information on ISO and OHSAS  certifications for our manufacturing sites. 
EHS Policy   Management 
Applied Materials  Environmental Health   Safety  (EHS) policy commits our company to protecting the  environment. The policy is signed by our President and  CEO, distributed to all Applied locations globally, and  referenced often during site team and management  meetings. 
Applied Materials  EHS   Sustainability organization is  an integrated entity with teams responsible for health  and safety related to on-site operations (including  construction, fire and life safety, and contractor safety),  hazard and risk identification, customer site support  operations, emergency preparedness, environmental  management, and product safety. These efforts are  supported by company management and guided by our  EHS policy. The Board of Directors receives a report of  EHS and sustainability matters each quarter and the  Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee  receives a more in-depth environmental and sustainability  update annually, detailing our GHG emissions and other  sustainability process indicators. 
Sustainability Report 2019 27 
We implement our EHS policy through our EHSMS,  which conforms with international management system  standards such as ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, the U.S.  Department of Labor s Occupational Safety and Health  Administration (OSHA) Voluntary Protection Plan (VPP),  and EHS documentation to the requirements of ISO 9000. 
The EHSMS lays out employee EHS responsibilities   by organizational role, which include: 
Environmental Health   Safety 
All Applied managers are trained in EHS policies, procedures, and expectations and must support continuous EHS  improvement in their management areas, including operations, processes, and products. Applied Materials employees  are assigned applicable EHS training based on the type of work they are required to complete, with their managers  evaluating training assignments annually for accuracy. 
  Ensuring all workers  adhere to applicable  country, state, and local  regulations 
  Ensuring adequate  resources for EHSMS  implementation and  maintenance 
  Confirming response  to incidents, injuries,  product liability, and  environmental releases 
  Supporting the  completion of periodic  management reviews of  the EHSMS  
Executives Managers   Supervisors Regional EHS Directors     Managers All Employees 
  Ensuring that no worker  is assigned a task  without appropriate EHS  and task-specific training 
  Encouraging workers to  suggest improvements 
  Promptly reporting,  investigating, and  correcting hazardous  conditions or systemic  failures resulting in  injuries, illnesses,  environmental releases,  and near misses 
  Ensuring EHS  requirements are  incorporated into  product and facility  designs and installations 
  Reinforcing safe  behavior through  appropriate recognition  or disciplinary actions 
  Ensuring the EHSMS  complies with our  certifications, EHS  policy, and applicable  regulations 
  Reviewing and   approving EHS  objectives and targets 
  Reporting on the  performance of  the EHSMS to site  management and  applicable Applied  Materials staff 
  Supporting and taking  responsibility for  implementing our EHS  policy in accordance   with their roles 
Sustainability Report 2019 28 
EHS Audits Our EHS program continually checks performance through  an annual internal audit. Major operations are audited  on a three-year cycle or more frequently as business  conditions permit or circumstances require. In locations  outside the United States, internal auditors are generally  accompanied by local regulatory experts.  
Our EHS   Sustainability organization also annually  gauges the effectiveness of our programs using internal  systems and self-assessment tools, including the  Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Self-Assessment  Questionnaire (SAQ). 
Findings from internal and external assessments are  documented using Applied s Quality Management System  (QMS) database and tracked for corrective action to  closure. 
Conserving Water 
Applied Materials is committed to using water and other  natural resources wisely and efficiently to ensure the  wellbeing of our society and planet. We rely on high- quality fresh water both for manufacturing processes  and routine use at our facilities and offices. Ensuring the  availability and quality of water is essential for the success  of our operations and those of our customers. To increase  our transparency in this area, we are making a first-time  disclosure on our water use in areas of high water stress. 
Our efforts around water conservation are twofold: 
Environmental Health   Safety 
1. Reducing Our Own Water Use:  Most of our  operations are not highly water-intensive, but  we take measures to reduce, reuse, and recycle  water in all facets of the business. We work with  our R D labs to find ways to reduce our water  consumption, and also ask our suppliers to be  aware of their resource consumption. 
2. Designing for Water Minimization:  As a  member of SEMI, Applied considers water  minimization during the design phase of all new  products. The potential risk of water shortages  has driven efforts to make equipment more  water-efficient, in order to maintain our level of  production and help our customers do the same.     See the Product Responsibility section of this  report for more information on designing for the  environment. 
Looking forward, Applied is developing an official policy  focused on the continued reduction of water use and  consumption, reuse, and recycling where feasible, and  improved measurement and documentation of our water  use. We are also conducting physical risk assessments of  potential adverse climate change impacts to our global  manufacturing facilities. 
Management   Oversight Our Managing Director of EHS is responsible for ensuring  that water-related risks and minimization opportunities  are assessed as appropriate. Each of Applied s operational  units has a facilities group that is responsible for water  use at specific sites, with oversight from the company s  EHS   Sustainability organization. Water reduction is  covered under our EHS policy and ISO 14001 EHSMS,  which call for our business operations to make continual  improvements on environmental preservation and natural  resource conservation through effective management and  meeting or exceeding all relevant regulatory requirements. 
See EHS Policy   Management for general management  information. 
Risk Assessment Applied Materials uses widely accepted tools to  understand water-related risks to our operations, such as  the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Tool. 
Our highest risk is tied to changing demands for our  products. For example, future water shortages could lead  customers to select equipment that requires little or no  water. Applied is responding to this risk by designing  products and services that consume less water and  other natural resources and reduce pollution, all while  maximizing functionality.  
We follow best practices in tool development and  specifications for water use outlined in the SEMI industry  requirements. 
Sustainability Report 2019 29 
Environmental Health   Safety 
Water Performance  
Water Data   (megaliters) 
Withdrawal: In 2019, our total water withdrawal grew as  a result of increased production, in addition to increased  facility footprint in Asia, the U.S., and other regions.  A portion of the increased consumption may also be  attributed to warmer temperatures, requiring increased  cooling. 
Water Sources: Applied Materials obtains its water from  local, municipal-supplied facilities in the cities or counties  where we operate. Except for our facilities in Treviso, Italy,  and Birch Grove, Montana, we do not directly withdraw  
2019 WRI Aqueduct Water Risk 
Total Water Withdrawal  1,798  
City Water Purchased 1,780 
Ground Water 18 
Locations Water Stress Risk Megaliters % 
Rehovot Extremely High ( 80%) 57 3% 
TOTAL (Manufacturing Sites Only) 1,779 100% 
Xi an Extremely High ( 80%) 206 12% 
Bangalore Extremely High ( 80%) 1 0% 
Heimstetten High (40-80%) 1 0% 
Treviso Medium - High (20-40%) 19 1% 
Newburyport Medium - High (20-40%) 1 0% 
Gloucester Medium - High (20-40%) 33 2% 
Korea (Hwaseong   Pyeongtaek) Medium - High (20-40%) 6 0% 
Alzenau Low - Medium (10-20%) 18 1% 
Kalispell Low - Medium (10-20%) 14 1% 
Austin Low - Medium (10-20%) 115 6% 
Santa Clara Low ( 10) 256 14% 
Sunnyvale Low ( 10) 940 53% 
Tainan Low ( 10) 57 3% 
Singapore Low ( 10) 57 3% 
water from sources such as wells, lakes, or rivers. No  native water sources are affected by withdrawal or water  reclamation processes or drainage.  
Water Stress Risk: Applied Materials uses the World  Resources Institute s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas to  identify areas around the world that experience water  stress, which could lead to water-related risks. In 2019,  13.95% of our water withdrawal was from extremely high  water-stressed areas. Overall, our California R D facility  is our most significant facility located in areas considered  water-stressed. 
Extreme drought conditions in California and Texas  have led to water usage restrictions and reductions, and  California is in the process of assessing and implementing  water reductions for businesses. Preparing for potential  water mandates, our facilities in both states are working  to gauge potential business impact and additional  opportunities to reduce their water consumption. 
Sustainability Report 2019 30 
Environmental Health   Safety 
Initiatives to Reduce Water Use  
Water Recycling: To reduce consumption of clean water  by applications that do not require potability, Applied  Materials implements water recycling and reuse,  especially around cooling and landscape water usage.  Wherever possible, we recycle and reuse process water,  blowdown from chillers, and other water used in our  manufacturing and laboratory operations for chilling  or removing waste heat, rather than pre-treating and  discharging it to publicly owned treatment works. 
In September 2015, Applied s largest manufacturing  facility, in Austin, TX, implemented our first Industrial  Waste Neutralization (IWN) program. By reusing treated  industrial wastewater as make-up water in the cooling  towers that provide building temperature management,  the program has helped us substantially reduce water  use. Each gallon of reclaimed IWN wastewater directly  replaces potable water that would otherwise have been  used. During cooler months, the recycled wastewater  provides over 90% of the total cooling tower make-up  water. Excess reclaimed wastewater volumes continue  to flow through the lift station to the City of Austin s  treatment works.  
Rainwater Collection: Several Applied facilities collect  rainwater for use in landscaping or non-production needs,  reducing the need to irrigate and lowering overall water  use consumption. Applied s Singapore Operations Center  and Taiwan Manufacturing Center 2 use a rainwater  recycling system. 
            Reducing Embedded Water in  Product Manufacturing 
Embedded water is the amount of water  required to make a product. Similar to the  way we measure embedded carbon   the  amount of greenhouse gas associated  with production   we also measure  embedded water to help us minimize  adverse environmental impact and conserve  important resources. Since 2017, wastewater  reuse and recycling efforts at our Austin  manufacturing facility alone have reduced our  consumption by 24.6 million gallons. 
Water Recycling in  Austin - Harris Branch   (in megaliters) 
Reducing Waste 
Applied is committed to minimizing waste across our  locations and logistics operations, with a special focus on  non-recyclable, landfill-bound waste. Waste reduction,  reuse, and recycling programs are managed at a site level,  and we have introduced waste management targets,  guided by ISO 14001, for individual manufacturing  locations. Each site s program targets are reviewed on  an ongoing basis and scored annually, which has led to  a measurable reduction in solid waste and an increase in  reuse and recycling of product and packaging materials. 
We also strive to reduce the negative impacts of  wastewater from our operations, monitoring to ensure  sufficient removal of solids and adherence to permitted  parameters (e.g., pH and fluoride content) before  discharge to publicly owned treatment works. Each  Applied facility is responsible for wastewater monitoring,  with problems escalated to the site management team  and applicable corporate staff for immediate correction. 
Drought-Tolerant Landscaping   Smart Irrigation:  Applied also reduces water consumption by employing  smart irrigation controls and a reduced schedule of  watering days at our Austin, TX, campus, and by planting  drought-tolerant landscaping in Sunnyvale, CA. 
Process Reclamation 16.6 20.0 19.2 
Cooling Tower Reuse 12.5 10.3 14.3 
In 2018 19, our  non-hazardous waste  diversion rate was 83%,  up from 76% in 2017.  83% 
2019 2018 2017 
Sustainability Report 2019 31 
Waste   Performance   Data1 
Environmental Health   Safety 
Waste Management  To reduce Applied s overall environmental impact, our  facilities are shifting to reusable, recyclable materials  wherever possible, and we operate comprehensive waste  management programs to:  
For more information on employee initiatives, see the  Community Impact chapter of this report. See the Product  Responsibility chapter for information on our responsible  product and packaging initiatives. 
   Total hazardous waste originating from our manufacturing facilities,  including R D and labs 
  Minimize the Amount of Waste Generated. As  one example, employees use print-on-demand  systems and online documentation to reduce  paper waste. 
  Sort Waste to Increase Diversion to Recycling.  
  Maximize Composting. Food waste from our  facilities is composted instead of being sent to  landfill. 
  Clean Up the Environment in Our Communities.  
Waste Performance Data Metric Tons 
Total Waste Generation  14.3 
Total Hazardous Waste  0.4 
Total non-hazardous waste 
Recyclable materials are separated upon disposal  by employees. We capture wood waste for  recycling from used crating materials and collect  and recycle metals and electronics in separate  streams. 
For instance, in Japan, a clean-up crew collected  860 pounds of garbage on Mount Fuji in 2019 as  part of EarthWorks, a month-long, company-wide  initiative held every April.  
  Diverted 
  Landfill and incineration 
Hazardous Waste Management: Applied uses licensed  third parties to transport and dispose solid and other  waste (including hazardous waste) off-site, consistent  with applicable laws and regulations. Our EHS    Sustainability organization provides additional oversight  of third-party hazardous material disposal companies  and ensures that all disposal sites and methods meet  regulatory requirements.  
Applied Materials is a member of CHWMEG, a  non-profit trade association promoting responsible  waste stewardship. CHWMEG s Facility Review Program  provides environmental, operational, and financial  information on waste treatment, disposal, recycling, and  storage facilities, which we use to evaluate potential  vendors for operational responsibly and compliance with  applicable laws. 
Water Discharges   Wastewater Applied Materials recognizes our responsibility to protect  water sources in the communities where we operate, and  to promote strong water stewardship practices throughout  our value chain.  
To minimize both water consumption and wastewater  discharge, our facilities recycle and reuse as much water  as possible for cooling, landscaping, and other uses.  Water that cannot be recycled or reused undergoes  careful quality monitoring and is pre-treated (e.g., for pH  balancing, fluoride removal, heavy metal removal, and  copper treatment) consistent with local laws, regulations,  and permit requirements before being discharged to  publicly owned treatment works.  
In 2015, we launched a water reclamation project in  Austin, TX, that has since expanded into our global  Industrial Waste Neutralization (IWN) Program. IWN  has had a substantial impact by taking wastewater that  would otherwise be treated and discharged and diverting  it for reuse in our manufacturing facilities  cooling towers.  This recycled water provides approximately 90% of our  cooling towers  water needs (depending on the time of  year), contributing to drastically reduced consumption of   potable water. 
Sustainability Report 2019 32 
Environmental Health   Safety 
Occupational Health   Safety 
Applied Materials places the highest priority on the  safety of our workforce, suppliers, and customers. We are  committed to complying with or exceeding all regulatory  requirements relevant and applicable to the health  and safety performance of our operations, processes,  and products. During the COVID-19 crisis, EHS    Sustainability has developed detailed Safety   Health  Protocols for all our sites and operations and to support  our employees who work at customer sites. (See Our  COVID-19 Response for additional information.) 
Occupational health and safety is managed by Applied s  EHS   Sustainability organization. We regularly engage  employees through Safety Review Boards   Workers   Councils in which managers, employees, and other  stakeholders collaborate to review site-specific or  organizational safety topics and specific incidents. Safety  is also addressed in operations meetings and quarterly  operations reviews. Employees can communicate their  safety concerns by submitting an Occupational Safety  Event Report. 
Managing Hazards   Risks Identifying   Assessing Risks: We identify and evaluate  health and safety hazards and risks at our global sites  using Job Hazard Assessments (JHAs), which are  supported by the relevant facility EHS team. JHAs are  used to evaluate workforce tasks, work areas, equipment,  and operations, and to identify the controls needed to  prevent or minimize worker exposure to health and safety  risks. For non-routine tasks where a JHA may not have  been conducted, we use a pre-task plan to evaluate  hazards and existing controls and establish appropriate  mitigation measures. 
Formal safety risk assessments  undertaken as part of our EHS  Management System include: 
  Aspect and impact assessments 
  Safety self-inspections 
  Walk-through assessments 
  Management of change process  
  Formal chemical evaluation and   authorization process 
We implement regular internal and third-party audits to  review the effectiveness of these assessment programs.  We also encourage employees to speak up on safety. If a  worker observes a health and safety issue or incident or  raises a health and safety concern, including near misses,  it is reported and tracked in the Global Occupational  Safety Event Report (OSER) online reporting system.  OSER also tracks other identified hazards and concerns,  including those reported through self-inspection  programs. 
Emergency Preparedness: All Applied Materials sites  maintain emergency action plans, and emergency  response teams (ERTs) are embedded at each  manufacturing and lab facility. Applied s Global  Emergency Response Team program specifies site-level  ERT requirements, including ERT member requirements,  equipment, response plans, and training. All ERT  programs are reviewed annually by local site coordinators  and by the corporate-level program owner. 
Emergency response plans are based on individual  facilities  operations and hazards, which may include fires,  chemical releases, injuries, and natural disasters such as  earthquakes, hurricanes, tornados, and typhoons.  
Occupational Health: Our Corporate Industrial Hygiene    Health Services department is led by a certified industrial  hygienist (CIH) and supported by occupational health  nurses and a part-time medical director. The department  is responsible for: 
Depending on the site and the applicable legal  requirements, occupational health services for our  manufacturing and or R D sites may be led by  full-time nurses, site EHS, external medical providers, or  occupational health nurses. Site EHS and nursing staff  are appropriately trained and certified, consistent with  applicable legal and corporate requirements. Corporate  staff supports all regions and provides guidance. Our  customer engineers, who provide customer services  worldwide, access occupational health services through  local healthcare clinics at their various locations. 
We establish medical surveillance programs as needed,  such as respiratory protection, radiation safety, hearing  conservation, and arsenic protection. 
  Managing the industrial hygiene (IH) programs  and providing effective occupational IH support  to all business units and operations 
  Developing occupational programs and  procedures and assisting in their implementation 
  Developing and delivering IH training to EHS staff 
Sustainability Report 2019 33 
Environmental Health   Safety 
Work-Related Injury Rates  
   The main types of work-related injury accidents are strains, sprains,  and fall-related incidents.  
1  Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR) is calculated as (total number of  OSHA Recordable injuries and illnesses x 200,000) total hours  worked by employees 
2  Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred (DART) Rate is calculated as  (total number of DART incidents x 200,000) total hours worked by  employees 
3  Lost Time Severity Rate (LTSR) is calculated as (total number lost  workdays x 200,000) total hours worked by employees 
Safety Training Applied Materials managers receive regular EHS training  and are responsible for ensuring that no worker is  assigned a task without appropriate training. Applied  has internal policies and procedures that ensure all  required EHS training is developed, maintained, assigned,  and tracked. EHS training is assigned using our Virtual  Training Manager (VTM) tool, allowing us to designate  training requirements based on job profiles and site- specific training requirements. The VTM system is also  used to monitor EHS training assignment rates to ensure  managers are assigning appropriate EHS training. 
Safety Training Rate: In FY2019, Applied Materials set  a target that 96% of relevant employees would complete  safety training by year-end. We are pleased to report  that our workforce met this target. Reports tracking the  safety training penetration rate are run weekly across all  business units, with the findings sent to all members of  executive management as part of the weekly EHS Update  Report.  
Safety Performance Applied Materials maintains global programs and  monitoring to promote safety culture and safe work  practices, minimize workplace risks, and promote  continuous improvement in our safety performance.   We use the definitions set by the U.S. Department of  Labor s Occupational Safety and Health Administration  (OSHA) for recordable, lost-time, and restricted-day  injuries, and implement these definitions globally for   data gathering and analysis.  
Fatalities 0 0 0 0 
DART2 0.29 0.34 0.30 0.26 
LTSR3 3.63 5.41 2.44 3.53 
TCIR1 0.43 0.52 0.41 0.44 
FY2019 FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 
Safety Targets Applied Materials  EHS   Sustainability organization sets  targets and objectives for Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR),  Days Away and Restricted Time (DART) injury rate, and  Lost Time Severity Rate (LTSR), both at the corporate level  and specific to each business unit and site location. The  targets are embedded into annual performance objectives.  At the end of each year, results are analyzed and the  targets are reset for the coming year. 
In FY2019, Applied set a company-wide internal target of  keeping our TCIR to 0.46 or below. We met this target,  achieving a TCIR 17% lower than in 2018.  
Health   Safety Violations In 2019, Applied received zero notices of violation  worldwide.  
A number of our manufacturing facilities and  procedures require highly skilled employees and  strict attention to safety. To ensure safety is  prioritized, many of our factories have implemented  a 6S manufacturing shop-floor quality program, a  globally recognized lean manufacturing concept  (originally known as 5S) that empowers employees  to assess and improve their work areas to enhance  functionality and safety.  
In 2019, when we introduced 6S, injury rates fell by  35% in our semiconductor manufacturing operations. 
6S Program 
  We also implement a policy on Global Safety and  Working Hours Guidelines in Lab Operations,  Manufacturing Operations, and Field Service  Operations, which states that scheduled workweeks  and workdays must comply with local legal  requirements and not exceed the maximum set by  local law. The guidelines state that employees should  not be scheduled to work more than 12 hours in a  24-hour period  a workweek should not exceed 60  hours including overtime, and employees should  be provided one day off per seven days of work.  Where local law sets no maximums or where local  maximums exceed these guidelines, then managers  should adhere to these guidelines. 
Safety in Manufacturing 
  Set in order 
  Standardize 
Sustainability Report 2019 34 
Product   Responsibility 
Our products are everywhere, used to produce virtually  every new chip and advanced display worldwide. That  scope brings responsibility for our products  safety,  health, and environmental impacts. 
Sustainability Report 2019 35 
As demand for digital services increases, so too does the  demand for the devices our products help manufacture.  With datacenters now consuming about 2% of the world s  electricity, we are committed to being part of the solution    enabling groundbreaking innovations in compute  efficiency and accelerating the technologies needed  to solve the world s greatest environmental and social  challenges. 
Recent advances are already driving significant  improvements in compute performance per watt, and our  company and industry are rich with innovators taking it  further. When those innovations scale up, as they will,  the applications and possibilities will be endless, giving  us the analytical and predictive capabilities to accelerate  research and surface previously unimagined solutions. 
That s our product responsibility vision on a grand   scale, but it starts with the incremental steps needed   to get there.  
Lorem ipsum dolor sit sagittie 
A Focus on Innovation 
Well beyond our own offices, labs, and factories, it is our products that  define Applied Materials  true impact on the world. Our portfolio of  innovative equipment, services, and software products makes possible  the fabrication of semiconductor chips, flat panel displays, solar  photovoltaic cells, and flexible electronics. Our solutions help produce  virtually every semiconductor chip and flat-panel display in the world.  
In March 2020, Applied Materials was  among the companies honored with  Intel s 2019 Preferred Quality Supplier  Award, which recognizes partners  deeply committed to excellence and  professionalism. 
In 2019, we made significant progress on a number of  process and policy fronts: 
This section of the report details those and other  efforts that help manage and minimize our products   environmental, health, and safety impacts, improving the  ESG footprint of Applied, our customers, and technology  users worldwide. 
Economy and efficiency have always been the name of the  game   and we re getting a lot better.  
2019 Progress 
  Modified our product design process to  incorporate ESG criteria from the very  earliest stages 
  Instituted explicit design targets for all  new Applied products, covering energy  and water usage and other environmental  metrics  
  Adopted a system to monitor product  sustainability metrics and  included  sustainability metrics in product  scorecards 
Sustainability Report 2019 36 
Design for Sustainability 
We ascribe as much importance to our products   environmental sustainability as we do to their safety and  reliability. All products and processes under development  since 2018 reflect the application of  Design for  Sustainability  methods and principles, such as explicit  design targets for optimizing energy and water usage. As  a result, approximately 40% of our current products have  enhancements available that save customers both energy  and operations cost. 
Quality Management System: Applied is globally certified  to ISO 9001:2015 for quality management, among other  quality certifications. 
Design for Sustainability Center of Excellence Part of our Systems Engineering organization, Applied s  Design for Sustainability Center of Excellence (CoE)  provides analysis of environmental improvement  opportunities and design and modeling tools, methods,  testing, and training. These help our Semiconductor  Products Group and other business units meet their  customers  sustainability needs, and differentiate their  products by environmental criteria. For example, our  proprietary web-based modeling tool provides design  engineers with information on a new design s resource  consumption and other environmental impacts, allowing  correction during the design process. 
With this design support, our product groups   responsibilities extend beyond traditional performance  attributes to encompass sustainability performance  as well. The product groups also set sustainability  improvement targets to meet specific customer  requirements. In 2019, several energy-efficient  improvements were developed covering a set of   products that will enable savings of over   50 Million kWh year for one of our customers. 
Design for Environmental Sustainability Playbook 
De ne the scope 2  
Model  improvements 
Establish current  performance and  improvement target 
Perform  value analysis 
Execute concept    feasibility  experiments 
Create a model of the baseline 
Measuring Sustainability   Efficiency To meet customers  sustainability needs, we use a  quantitative, value-based approach to design. We  measure efficiency in terms of resource or impact per  unit of production or time based on the SEMI S23  standard, a guide for the conservation of energy, utilities,  and materials used by semiconductor manufacturing  equipment. SEMI S23 addresses not only the energy  used directly by process equipment but also the energy  required to provide cooling and deionized water, exhaust,  and other resources. 
Available energy-saving features on our Endura and  Radiance Centura products reduced energy consumption  by 8% and 16%, respectively. We continue to develop  additional features for all our products. 
  Applied is driving initiatives with its customers  and suppliers to promote greater sustainability  industry-wide, including hardware and software  upgrades that cut energy use, chemical use, and  cleanroom space requirements for both new and  existing systems. 
As part of our new ecoUP initiative, we  announced a 3x30 goal for our manufacturing  systems: On a per-wafer basis, Applied targets a  30% reduction in equivalent energy consumption,  a 30% reduction in chemical consumption, and a  30% increase in throughput density (the number  of wafers processed per square foot of cleanroom  space)   all by 2030. 
Identify potential improvements 
Implement, test,  and validate 
Initiative 
Sustainability Report 2019 37 
Sustainable Product Offerings 
Applied Materials  roster of sustainable, energy-efficient  products continues to expand. These include systems to  minimize energy, water, and chemical use  equipment to  abate pollution  and consulting services in clean tech to  help customers reduce their GHG emissions and overall  environmental impacts. We consider the sustainability  of our products holistically, including the cleanroom  equipment itself, the peripheral equipment in the subfab,  and the energy required by fab facilities systems to  support our products.  
In addition to the innovations listed below, we also  continue to offer integrated point-of-use pump  systems (iPUP), sharing heat exchangers, and NextGen  Cryopumps. 
Idle Sleep Mode We now provide tools that put components into idle  sleep mode, reducing energy consumption when the  equipment is not processing wafers. These modes can  also reduce water and other utility use. 
Reducing Chemical Exhaust In 2019, to reduce effluent from our tools  chambers  while maintaining high productivity, Applied introduced  two systems for pre-pump plasma abatement: Aeris-S  and Aeris-Si. Rather than trying to dilute the exhaust gas  stream with nitrogen or improve the movement of solids  through the exhaust system, these systems prevent the  accumulation of solids from the outset by disassociating  complex molecules and reducing the amount of chemicals  flowing through the exhaust system. These methods  provide greater energy efficiency while saving cost,  improving the management of reactive chemistries, and  reducing the possibility of human exposure to hazardous  substances. 
Monitoring Tool Operation to Boost Water Efficiency The Applied iSystem enables customers to use lower  water temperatures and less water overall. It monitors  tool operation and collects data to generate reports  on resource consumption, GHG emissions, and other  environmental factors. The system can reduce energy- related costs for our customers by approximately 20%,  and its green features can be enabled without equipment  changes or process re-qualification. The iSystem also  features intelligent idle mode, from which it recovers in  under two seconds, and it supports industry standards for  sleep mode (SEMI E167 and E175). 
Product Responsibility 
Solar Technology 
Photovoltaic (PV) manufacturers have improved solar  panel output by 10W each year while continuing to  significantly reduce manufacturing costs. Globally,  this has resulted in PV emerging as not just one of the  greenest sources of energy, but also one of cheapest    while at the same time creating jobs. By 2050, PV is  expected to account for 39% of world energy capacity and  22% of generation. To get there, PV will need to continue  its trajectory of coupling significant cost decrease with  significant performance and reliability improvements.  Regardless of the technology choice manufacturers  are pursuing to serve specific market needs   from  large power plants to rooftop applications   Applied s  technology is helping develop existing technologies  and transition to more advanced cells and modules, all  while meeting cost-per-watt targets. Applied s Baccini  screen-printing-based cell manufacturing and advanced  modules platforms are the cornerstone of almost every  solar factory today, renowned for their ability to process  large volumes of large and thin wafers at high yield. The  Vericell wafer inspection systems offer the best accuracy  in detecting defects that would potentially lead to yield  losses. Our AKT PECVD technology makes the most  advanced and highest efficiency heterojunction cells  in the world. These technologies seamlessly integrate  into customers  cost roadmaps across multiple cell and  module technologies. 
Applied Materials Solar Roadmap 
Cost Efectivness 
Applied Materials  platforms and solutions can serve customers across a  variety of technologies and process steps. 
FLDP Tempo Presto 
p-multi nPERT nTOPCon pTOPCon Tempo  IBC 
280w 300w 320w 340w 360w 380w 
Verticell Industry 4.0 
p-mono PERC 
Module Power 60 cells Equivalent 
FLDP Tempo Presto 
Industry 4.0 Thin wf 
FLDP Tempo Presto 
Sustainability Report 2019 38 
Industry 4.0 
Sonetto Sonetto 
Industry 4.0 Thin wf 
Product Responsibility 
Circular Economy   End-of-Life Management 
Applied Materials works to promote the circular economy  vision of zero-waste, where products are designed for  longer lifespans and the ability to more easily be recycled  or repurposed at the end of their functional lives.  
Longer Lifespan Applied Materials products are designed to last, and  capable of being upgraded, refurbished, and repurposed  for new applications and technologies and to meet  more stringent process parameters. Moreover, they are  also designed so that when a part fails, it can be easily  repaired or refurbished. As the semiconductor industry  matures and our customers face constrained capital  expenditure budgets, our flexible, upgradable products  help enable economies in fab capacity expansion.  
Designing Out Obsolescence Our Applied Global Services (AGS) organization has a  team dedicated to reducing product obsolescence by  designing replacement parts for key spares. Additionally,  older tools can be upgraded with new assemblies and  subsystems designed by the Semiconductor Products  Group. These non-system orders (NSOs) improve tool  performance and allow the tools to be extended to newer  technology nodes. 
Spare Parts Refurbishment About six years ago, to reduce raw materials consumption  and contribute to the expanding secondary parts market,  we established an organization in AGS that specializes  in retrieving field parts and assemblies, inspecting them,  and determining if they are salvageable. Those that are  go through a process of cleaning, overhaul, and repair  refurbishment by the original equipment manufacturer or  qualified repair suppliers and are then re-certified by AGS  as  like new  for re-use and re-circulation. Each quarter,  approximately 30% of our shipped spare parts are used  repaired refurbished. Applied Materials may also use  these refurbished parts to build full systems and upgrades  when available, based on a customer s need.  
Packaging   Logistics 
Our precision tools and products require carefully  designed packaging to avoid damage during  transportation. To identify and address potential shipping  hazards, we have a dedicated packaging technology  team and testing laboratory that develops materials  and methods to keep our products safe from shock and  vibration. This team is also tasked with improving the  sustainability of our packaging solutions.  
Material   Weight Reduction Fully 95% of our packaging materials are made from  recyclable materials (polyethylene, polypropylene,  corrugated fiberboard, steel, and wood), many of which  are also reusable. Recent initiatives have included: 
Reusability When picking up parts for repair from our customers   fabs, we now use reusable cabinets, eliminating the need  for single-use crate box foam packaging. This initiative is  successfully underway in China, Japan, Korea, Singapore,  and Taiwan, where we have more than 24 customer fabs.  We further reduced single-use packaging by designing and  releasing 318 reusable cases for Total Kit Management  (TKM) service products. 
In 2019, we introduced air casters to eliminate single-use  fixtures for material handling, which previously were  used on the majority of main modules. In 2020, we are  introducing new labels that communicate to the end user  that the packaging is reusable and must not be discarded,  enabling effective reusability and reducing wastage by  avoiding premature scrapping of reusable packaging. 
  Initiating a reduction of the thickness of our  low-density polyethylene (LDPE) bags from 6 MIL  to 4 MIL. Begun in late 2018, this process is on  target for completion in 2020. 
  Developing a new crate design with a corrugated  Kraft cover, reducing wood content by 50% and  saving 3,917 trees annually. This 2019 design  also reduces shipping weight, saving associated  fuel and GHG emissions. We expect to complete  transition to this new design in 2021. 
  Building the amount of materials used in  packaging into our spend reports from key  packaging suppliers. This data helps us determine  material usage and areas for reduction while still  maintaining packaging requirements. 
Sustainability Report 2019 39 
Product Responsibility 
Reducing Waste To keep our packaging out of landfills, Applied has  prohibited the use of non-recyclable materials such as  Styrofoam. We plan to restrict the use of additional  non-recyclable and environmentally burdening materials,  such as PVC and toxic foams. We have also set up a  reusability process for our 500-pound pallets, further  reducing waste while relieving our customers of the cost  of disposal. 
To further reduce material usage and shipping emissions,  we are reviewing options for modular and postponed  shipping and packaging: optimizing shipping to minimize  dimensional weight and fully utilize container space, then  packing at regional warehouses. 
See Environmental Health   Safety for more details on how  Applied approaches waste management and reduction. 
Safety concerns involving Applied Materials products  can be communicated by submitting a Product Safety  Event Report (PSER), which triggers reviews by our  product safety engineers. To report safety concerns  related to Applied Materials products, customers  may contact  My Applied Materials  customer  information 24 7 in the U.S. at 1-800-468-8888.  Customers outside the U.S. are instructed to contact  their local safety or sales representatives, or they  may send an email message in English to   corporate product ehs amat.com.  
Product Safety 
Applied Materials develops and implements  comprehensive product design, manufacture, labelling,  and testing policies and programs to ensure our  products are safe to use and comply with applicable  legal requirements and industry standards. Third-party  assessments also help ensure our products meet all safety  requirements. 
We follow country- and region-specific requirements  when applicable. For example, products distributed in  China are marked with a mandatory  China RoHS 25   label to comply with the administrative measure on the  control of pollution from electronic information products.  Products sold in the European Union comply with regional  manufacturing and labelling requirements, including CE  Marking. Starting in 2021, products for delivery to the UK  will be marked with  UKCA  (UK Conformity Assessed). 
Any business unit or group that develops, sells, or  distributes products shall ensure such products have been  engineered to protect personnel, the user s facilities, and  the environment from exposure to risks, and that any  risks remain below a minimum acceptable level when  the products are operated, maintained, and serviced in  accordance with the instructions and information provided  to the user. Product Safety partners with other groups  in the company to oversee the design of products and  services, monitors their safety during the product s life- cycle, and drives compliance with our product safety policy. 
Sustainability Report 2019 40 
Supply Chain   Responsibility 
Driving sustainability across our business ecosystem  means forging a new level of partnership and  collaboration with our suppliers. We re ready. 
Sustainability Report 2019 41 
Already well received by several of our key suppliers,  this new initiative will build on several recent successes,  including publication of a new Responsible Minerals  Sourcing Policy (developed 2019, released June 2020),  and the launch of segmented reporting on supplier  diversity. 
Lorem ipsum dolor sit sagittie 
SuCCESS2030:   A Roadmap for Supply Chain Sustainability 
Applied Materials creates complex products containing thousands  of parts sourced from across a broad supply chain. To make a  real difference with our sustainability vision, we are committed to  working with suppliers who share our principles regarding ethical  business practices and human rights. We recently codified this  commitment through a new 10-year roadmap we re calling Supply  Chain Certification for Environmental and Social Sustainability, or  SuCCESS2030. The program lays out new ways of partnering with our  direct suppliers across three key areas: 
1. Setting Standards: We will hold our direct  suppliers to the same standards to which we hold  ourselves in the areas of environmental impact,  labor standards, and diversity and inclusion.  When selecting new suppliers, we will assess  their sustainability performance alongside our  traditional metrics for performance, cost, and  quality. 
2. Improving Handoffs: We will work with our  direct suppliers to create efficiencies and reduce  waste in the fulfillment stream.  
3. Sharing Insights: We will partner with   our direct suppliers to share best   practices and key learnings.  
FY2019 Supplier Spend by Region 
Asia Europe 53% 5% 
Americas 42% 
Sustainability Report 2019 42 
Reporting Concerns Grievances 
As part of our Global Ethics   Compliance  Program, we have established a 24-hour, toll-free  Ethics Helpline (1-877-225-5554 in the U.S.,  or appliedmaterials.ethicspoint.com) to which  employees, supplier partners, and others may  report concerns, anonymously or by name. The  helpline is managed by an independent third party. 
Supplier Assessments 
Our Global Supply Chain (GSC) and Operations and  Aftermarket Quality (OAQ) organizations manage our direct  supplier relationships while Global General Procurement  (G2P) manages our indirect supplier relationships. We are  coordinating efforts and developing capabilities to ensure  our suppliers operate in an ethical, responsible, and  sustainable manner. To this end, we may require   suppliers to: 
Target Setting From 2020, we plan to expand our program to identify and  address ESG risks in our supply chain. Applied Materials  will conduct detailed evaluations of information reported  by suppliers under our existing program and under our  revised performance-assessment tool, then determine which  suppliers should be audited or assessed further in terms  of their ESG and operational performance. Based on the  outcome of such assessments audits, Applied will work  with the suppliers to drive any necessary corrective actions.  
Supply Chain Responsibility 
  Complete annual self-assessment questionnaires  to measure their conformance to the Responsible  Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct 
  Submit Conflict Minerals Reporting Templates as  part of our Conflict Minerals due diligence 
  Report on their performance under environmental  regulations 
Our Supplier Expectations We require our suppliers to adhere to the RBA Code of  Conduct and Applied s Standards of Business Conduct  (SBC). In addition, direct suppliers are required to ensure  their products conform to relevant guidelines set by SEMI,  the industry association for electronics manufacturing, as  well as applicable or relevant environmental health and  safety requirements.  
Recently, we also adopted a Responsible Minerals  Sourcing Policy to emphasize our requirements for  sourcing of conflict minerals. 
We provide additional guidance on ESG expectations   for our suppliers through the My Applied Partner Portal,   a supplier-focused online platform of information   and support. 
Global Supply Agreement   ESG Requirements Supplier ESG requirements are incorporated into our  Global Supply Agreement and other legally binding  contracts through our new  Supplier ESG Requirements   document. These requirements also align with the  California Transparency in Supply Chains Act. As stated in  the document, suppliers are required to: 
  Implement the Responsible Business Alliance  Code of Conduct for their own operations and  ensure RBA code compliance among their   sub-tier suppliers 
  Meet statutory and regulatory requirements  related to conflict minerals 
  Meet Applied s other environmental, social, and  governance requirements in their own operations  and ensure compliance among their sub-tier  suppliers 
  Comply with  any applicable environmental,  health or safety law, rule, regulation, order,  decree or ordinance  
  Comply with Applied s minimum product EHS  requirements  
  Provide information requested by Applied to  enable our company to comply with material  content restriction regulations, including but not  limited to REACH (EC number 1907 2006) and  RoHS (EU Directive 2011 65 EU) 
Sustainability Report 2019 43 
Supplier Training 
Applied provides our suppliers with various trainings  related to our policies and procedures, including  web-based training on our Standards of Business  Conduct. In 2019, our Environmental Health   Safety  (EHS) and Global Supplier Engineering personnel  partnered to host a training day on lifting techniques  and safe work environments for supplier executive,  general operations, and quality management personnel.  This training reiterated Applied s commitment to a safe  working environment for our employees and our suppliers   employees, and was positively received by the attending  supplier executives. 
Supplier Assessments  
In 2019, we laid the groundwork for the initiatives that  will drive our efforts under SuCCESS2030. For example,  we developed a metrics-based approach to assessing  supply chain risks related to environmental, social, and  governance (ESG) issues, which will be reflected in  our supplier scorecards, and increased the number of  suppliers subject to outreach for RBA self-assessment  questionnaires, conflict minerals reporting templates, and  other due diligence. 
Supply Chain Responsibility 
Policy   Procedure Compliance 
Applied s suppliers must abide by the following standards and codes. 
Applied Materials  Standards of  Business Conduct:  Reflects our  organizational values  and our focus on  ethical practices   prohibits the use of  child labor, forced or  bonded labor, and  harsh or inhumane  treatment of workers   and requires a safe  work environment. 
Responsible  Business Alliance  Code of Conduct:  Establishes standards  for safe working  conditions, respectful  and dignified  treatment of workers,  and environmentally  responsible and  ethical business  operations in the  electronics industry.  Applied Materials  was one of the  earliest members   of the RBA. 
The California  Transparency in  Supply Chains Act of  2010: Requires many  manufacturers in  California to disclose  information regarding  their efforts to  address the risk of  slavery and human  trafficking in their  supply chains. 
 As a Fortune 500 company and  industry leader, we have a unique  opportunity to lead on ESG issues  and make a meaningful impact  today, tomorrow, and well into the  future.   
Applied Materials assesses the full extent of a direct  supplier s business and quality management systems  using the internal Supplier Performance and Capability  Assessment (SPACA) tool. In 2020 we issued a revised  version to incorporate ESG-related requirements in greater  detail. Adding RBA criteria to the SPACA assessment  process enables stronger due diligence to measure and  help drive compliance with human rights and labor  requirements, among other topics. Suppliers will use  the new SPACA to perform their self-assessments, and  Applied Materials will use the results to help select  suppliers for further assessment. 
Stephen Gustafson, Applied Materials Vice President, Operations    Aftermarket Quality 
Responsible  Minerals Sourcing  Policy: Governs the  sourcing of conflict  minerals contained  in products sold to  Applied. 
Details on our Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy  appear later in this section. EHS policy is discussed under  Environmental Health   Safety. 
Sustainability Report 2019 44 
Environmental  Health and Safety  Policy: Encourages  our suppliers to  improve their  environmental  health and safety  performance.  
Supply Chain Responsibility 
Supplier Monitoring 
Due Diligence  In 2019, we engaged a new third-party service provider,  Assent Compliance, to collect and analyze supplier data  relevant to conflict minerals, REACH, RoHS, and other  declarable substance requirements. Utilizing Assent  Compliance increases the number of suppliers we can  reach as well as the accuracy of the data collected, which  in turn enhances Applied s ability to respond appropriately  to identified risks. Building upon our prior due diligence  and assessment tools, in 2020 Applied is developing an  ESG Risk Index to capture and help assess supply chain  ESG risk. The output of this index will help us identify  suppliers for performance re-assessment and suppliers  who should undergo an ESG-specific audit. 
Risk-Based Assessments   Audits  Suppliers will be identified for more in-depth assessments  or audits each year through a weighted risk matrix  that encompasses various indicators of supply chain  risk, including their SPACA and ESG Risk Index scores.  Beginning in 2020, Applied Materials is driving an  annual self-assessment of our top 80% (by spend)  direct suppliers to measure their performance, including  ESG factors. We have also developed a more proactive  approach to risk reduction through on-site supplier  assessments. As part of our pilot program, in 2020 we  are planning to conduct on-site audits for certain direct  suppliers deemed to have high ESG risk.  
Corrective Action  When Applied Materials identifies a compliance gap, we  partner with the supplier to align on corrective actions  and drive to closure. If a supplier fails to address our  concerns, we may suspend the business relationship.  
Internal Audits  Applied Materials conducts regular internal audits of our  direct suppliers. Applied s Internal Audit Team identifies  suppliers that may pose a risk to the company, then  conducts a deep on-site investigation with support from  experts from within Applied s GSC and Global Quality  organizations. Audits of high-ESG-risk suppliers will start  in 2020, and coupled with our continued utilization of RBA  audits (described below) will increase Applied s ability to  verify compliance to our Supplier ESG Requirements document. 
External Audits  Consistent with RBA requirements, Applied requires 25%  of its high-risk suppliers to undergo an RBA Validated  Assessment Program (VAP) audit. A third-party audit firm  approved by the RBA conducts such audits, based on RBA  audit standards. 
Responsible Minerals Sourcing 
Applied Materials is committed to the responsible  sourcing of materials used in our products. Key to this  commitment is our policy around tantalum, tin, tungsten,  and gold, commonly referred to as conflict minerals or  3TG. These minerals are often mined in countries and  regions affected by conflict and human rights abuses,  including the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)  and adjoining countries.  
While our products include components manufactured  with 3TG minerals, Applied does not purchase these  minerals directly or maintain any direct relationship with  mines, smelters, or refiners that process these minerals. In  June 2020, to assure our conflict minerals policy extends  across our supply chain, we adopted a Responsible  Minerals Sourcing Policy to guide our direct suppliers   sourcing of 3TG minerals, and to communicate our  commitment to due diligence and disclosure. To assure  the efficacy of our policy, we utilize the Responsible  Minerals Initiative (RMI) Responsible Minerals Assurance  Process as well as independent third-party audits. Applied  has been a partner of the Responsible Minerals Initiative  since its inception by the Responsible Business Alliance  (RBA) and the Global eSustainability Initiative (GeSI). 
Beyond 3TG, Applied Materials has begun the process of  conducting due diligence to measure and track our supply  chain s use of cobalt, a frequently DRC-sourced mineral  that s been tied to child labor, unsafe working conditions,  and adverse environmental impacts. We have also  committed to expanding our program to include additional  minerals relevant to our business as appropriate due  diligence tools become available. 
Policy, Commitments   Management The RBA Code of Conduct requires that companies  have a policy to  reasonably assure that tantalum, tin,  tungsten, and gold in the products they manufacture  does not directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed  groups that are perpetrators of serious human rights  abuses in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) or an  adjoining country.  To this end, we exercise due diligence  on the source and chain of custody of these materials,  requiring our direct suppliers to reasonably ensure 3TG in  products they sell to Applied originated outside the DRC  or adjoining countries, or from RMI-compliant sources  within the DRC. Our due diligence measures are available  to customers and other stakeholders through our annual  Conflict Minerals Report. 
Governance and responsibility for implementing the  company s conflict minerals program resides with our  Conflict Minerals Compliance Team (established in 2011),  which is managed by the company s Global Supply Chain  organization. The compliance team is also responsible for  briefing senior management about the results of our due  diligence efforts.  
Sustainability Report 2019 45 
1   OECD  Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of  Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas: Third Edition   and the related Supplements 
Supply Chain Responsibility 
Each year, we file a Specialized Disclosure Form (SD  Form) that includes a Conflict Minerals Report with the  SEC and share its findings with the Audit Committee of  our Board of Directors in the form of an annual Conflict  Minerals Report.  
Our 2020 Conflict Minerals Report can be found here. 
Our Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy can be   found here. 
 Table presents full 2019 numbers reflecting additional supplier responses that were received after we filed our Conflict Minerals Report with the SEC. 
Reporting Concerns   on Conflict Minerals 
Employees and suppliers can voice concerns  or grievances around conflict minerals  through Applied s Ethics and Compliance  portal or email our Ethics   Compliance  team. Industry-level violations or grievances  can be reported to the RMI. 
Click here for more on Applied s approach to  ethics and compliance reporting. 
Report Year Number of Suppliers  Surveyed Portion of Supplier Spend CMRT Response Rate 
2016 120 80% 100% 
2017 162 80% 100% 
2018 183 80% 100% 
2019 260 85% 99%  
In late 2019, Applied  Materials engaged the  third-party vendor Assent  Compliance to help us manage  both our relationships with suppliers and the extensive  data collection and analysis needed for a robust due  diligence process. In calendar 2019, we increased the  number of suppliers we surveyed as part of our due  diligence efforts by approximately 42% over 2018, to  cover 85% of our total supplier spend, up from 80%  in 2018. We are pleased to have maintained a near  100% response rate to the Conflict Minerals Reporting  Template issued to suppliers despite the significant  increase in the number of suppliers we engaged.  
Requirements of Suppliers Applied Materials requires our suppliers to maintain  programs and procedures that ensure compliance with the  RMI and do not, directly or indirectly, finance or benefit  armed groups in the DRC. Suppliers must also adhere to  the Applied Materials  Standards of Business Conduct  and the RBA Code of Conduct.  
Beginning in 2019, we updated our key supplier contract  templates to incorporate our Supplier ESG Requirements  document, which states explicitly that we may  request reporting templates and or a self-assessment  questionnaire from suppliers, in compliance with RBA.  This guidance is already in effect for 100% of new  suppliers and applies to existing suppliers as we renew  their contracts or make new purchases. Applied pursues  corrective action if we learn that a supplier does not meet  our requirements. 
Due Diligence Process To verify a material s country of origin and chain of  custody, we conduct a reasonable country of origin  inquiry (RCOI) consistent with RBA guidelines and the  internationally recognized, risk-based due diligence  framework from the Organisation for Economic   Co-operation and Development (OECD1).  
Sustainability Report 2019 46 
 [Supplier Diversity]  creates partnerships that  fuel the economy.  
1 According to a study from the Hackett Group. 
In 2017, Applied Materials established a supplier   diversity program to make our supply chain progressively  more inclusive and equitable. In 2018, the program was  expanded to cover all U.S. operations. That same year,  we co-founded the Manufacturing Ownership Diversity  Working Group (MOD), a supplier diversity alliance with  members from across the semiconductor industry. 
Supply Chain Responsibility 
Supplier Diversity  
Building diverse, inclusive supply chains is good for  business and good for society. It brings new perspectives  and capabilities to further innovation, reduces social  inequality by supporting job creation and economic   growth in diverse communities, promotes resilience,   and drives competition that can reduce supply chain   costs by up to 33%.1  
National Minority Supplier Development Council 
Minority-owned  business enterprise 
Our Supplier Diversity program tracks the segmentation of  our diverse supplier spend for our U.S.-based operations.  
Looking ahead, we plan to boost our total year-over-year  supplier diversity spend, establish growth goals to ensure  an even larger future role for diversity in our supply chain,  and further improve supplier diversity disclosure and  transparency.  
Read our Supply Chain Diversity Statement here.  
Diverse suppliers must be at least 51% diverse owned, controlled, and  operated. 
Diverse suppliers must be certified by a third-party auditor as meeting  the criteria for one of the following supplier diversity categories: U.S.  minorities (African-American Black, Hispanic Latino-American, Native  American, Asian-Pacific American, Asian-Indian American), women,  minority women, persons with disabilities, veterans and service-disabled  veterans, LGBTQ. 
This supplier spend reflects only the supplier companies that have been  certified by a third-party diverse supplier auditor. Applied Materials also  tracks additional diverse suppliers that could potentially be registered as  diverse if they proceed with certification. 
FY2019 U.S. Certified Diverse Supplier Spend 
Women-owned  business enterprise Minority-women-owned  business enterprise 
Veteran-owned  business enterprise 
Sustainability Report 2019 47 
Supply Chain Responsibility 
Promoting Industry-Wide Diversity Standards The Manufacturing Ownership Diversity (MOD) Working  Group is a special interest group under SEMI, the industry  association for the global electronics manufacturing  supply chain. The group dates to 2018, based on an  initiative led by Applied Materials, Intel, and two peer  companies, Lam Research and Tokyo Electron Ltd. (TEL).  Today, Applied is the group s co-leader, working to  establish best practices and a common, global standard  that aims to increase supplier diversity across the  semiconductor manufacturing industry by helping diverse- owned companies compete equitably for bids with both  prime suppliers and end users. 
Our frequently used supplier  diversity auditors: 
  Women s Business Enterprise  National Council (WBENC), the  largest certifier of women-owned  businesses in the U.S. 
  National Minority Supplier  Development Council 
  SMSDC Veteran Certification  
  Veteran-Owned Small Business  (VOSB)  
  U.S. Small Business Administration  
  National Gay and Lesbian Chamber  of Commerce (NGLCC) Certification  
Human Rights 
Applied Materials is unequivocally committed to  protecting human rights and conducting business in an  ethical and responsible manner, around the world. We  condemn and are committed to ending forced and bonded  labor in all its forms, including child labor, indentured  labor, slavery, and human trafficking. 
In 2018 and 2019, we worked with one of our customers  to comprehensively assess risks for forced and bonded  labor in our supply chain. This deep-dive assessment  covered three of our Asia-based suppliers and their  sub-tier suppliers, focusing on hiring processes for  foreign and migrant workers and mapping those workers   individual journeys. The assessment revealed no high  risks, though it did identify that some foreign workers  hired by one supplier had paid agent fees, a practice that  can leave workers in debt bondage, a form of forced labor.  We worked with the supplier to address this, and the  supplier reimbursed the workers for those fees. 
Other policies and practices to protect our global  workforce and supply chain are enumerated below. 
Our commitment to protecting human rights wherever  we do business is detailed in various company policies  and statements, including our company-wide Standards  of Business Conduct, the RBA Code of Conduct, our  Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy, and our position  on the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act.  These policies and statements spell out our commitments,  enumerate our expectations around training and  accountability for our personnel and direct suppliers, and  lay out enforcement mechanisms for non-compliance  with their requirements. We communicate our human  rights commitments and requirements clearly to our  supply chain and business partners to ensure that our  expectations around humane treatment of the workforce  and forbidding forced and bonded labor are being upheld. 
Non-Discrimination Applied Materials prohibits discrimination, harassment,  and retaliation by or against employees, managers,  supervisors, co-workers, or non-employee third parties  with whom the company has a business, service, or  professional relationship (e.g., applicants for employment,  contractors, temporary workers, vendors, suppliers,  interns, customers, visitors). Our Non-Discrimination  Policy addresses conduct, complaint procedure,  supervisory responsibilities, responsive action, and  supplemental state-specific rules. 
See the Occupational Health   Safety section of this report  for additional information on employee working conditions  and policies. 
Sustainability Report 2019 48 
Our People     Workplace 
Just as we need radical energy transformation to beat  climate change, we need radical cultural shifts to make  businesses truly diverse and inclusive. We re working  hard to make that a reality at Applied. 
Sustainability Report 2019 49 
That s how we build a company with the broad-based  strengths to thrive in the decades to come. It s how we  attract and retain the best people and build winning teams  that are able to share their best thinking and collaborate  in an environment of mutual regard. Enabling all of  our people to do their best work drives innovation and  performance, allowing us to fulfill our mission to make  possible a better future. 
In 2019, we made significant strides in our journey  toward a Culture of Inclusion (COI), including: 
Building a More Diverse     Inclusive Company 
As a global leader, we know our differences can be our greatest strength    but just saying so isn t enough. Instead we must ensure that each  individual has fair and equal opportunity for career development and  advancement, and that respect for diverse backgrounds and perspectives  is baked into our company s culture at every level   from strategy and  policy down to the smallest everyday interactions.  
Lorem ipsum dolor sit sagittie 
  Expanding gender diversity on our Board to 30%  female membership 
  Increasing women s employee representation in  the U.S. and globally 
  Increasing U.S. underrepresented minority  representation 
  Establishing a team fully dedicated to COI 
  Establishing a Diversity Strategy and Culture of  Inclusion Framework 
  Broadening inclusion-focused questions in our  employee survey and continuing to measure  engagement 
  Assessing progress against the Global Diversity     Inclusion Benchmark (GDIB) 
Women   Employees 
  Our Culture of Inclusion Goals 
  Increase women s representation globally  
  Increase women s representation in our U.S.  workforce to 21% by 2021 
  Increase representation of underrepresented  minorities in our U.S. workforce 
  Demonstrate improvement in the inclusion  measurement on our Organizational Health Index  survey of employees 
Sustainability Report 2019 50 
19.3% 19.5% 
Our Culture of Inclusion Strategy 
To fully actualize our Culture of Inclusion vision, we are  building on the best of who we are today while embracing  a new, focused, and intentional path forward. Diversity  and inclusion must be embedded in everything we do,  to help us offer a workplace and culture of respect and  inclusion, where everyone is engaged and inspired to do  their best work. That s vital for our people and our ability  to deliver value-creating innovation to our customers and  shareholders.  
To accelerate progress toward a Culture of Inclusion,   we are:   
We also know that transparency is key to progress and  will continue building on efforts began in 2018 with  our first report on global gender and U.S. race and  ethnicity in our workforce. In 2019, we disclosed our  2016 2018 EEO-1 reports and diversity data at three  levels: executives, managers, and professionals. The data  showed slight gains for Asian, women, Hispanic Latino,  Black African-American, Native American Alaskan, and  Native Hawaiian Pacific Islander groups. 
Our People   Workplace 
1  Applied Materials is a member of the Reboot Representation Tech  Coalition, which aims to close the gender gap in tech by doubling the  number of minority women graduating with computing degrees by  2025. The Rebooting Representation Report can be found here. 
  Engaging leaders as change champions, making  the mission of inclusion personal for them,  ensuring they understand the challenges before  crafting solutions, and defining inclusion barriers  and key metrics for leading change.  
  Eliminating systemic barriers to inclusion by  leveraging data to develop key action strategies  and monitor success, and engaging and  empowering Inclusion Change teams to break  down walls. 
  Operationalizing inclusion in all we do, including  leveraging best practices  ensuring that our talent  practices are inclusive  and tracking progress  through employee representation data, employee  engagement scores, and other qualitative and  quantitative metrics. 
 Applied Materials respects each  individual. We welcome diversity,  embrace different perspectives as  a key to innovation, and believe  we are stronger when we stand  together against racism and  discrimination. We must continue  to raise the bar to fulfill the values  to which we ve committed ourselves  and make possible a better future    for everyone.    
 Our journey toward a true  Culture of Inclusion will broaden  and sustain the diversity of our  workplace, promote varied ideas  and approaches, and help us build  a culture that benefits everyone:  our people, our customers, and our  shareholders.  
 The data is clear that diverse  companies are more innovative and  profitable. Tech companies have  much to gain   and much they can  contribute   by choosing to make  diversity and inclusion a priority.   
Gary Dickerson, Applied Materials President   CEO 
Susan Schmitt, Group Vice President, Human Resources 
Rebooting Representation Report1 (2018) 
Sustainability Report 2019 51 
Engaging Leaders as Change Champions Our leaders are engaged with and guiding our Culture  of Inclusion journey: accepting inclusion and diversity  as a personal mission  growing their understanding of  challenges and barriers  and defining key metrics for fully  realizing a Culture of Inclusion. By driving change from  the top levels of our company, our leaders are setting  the standard of what it means to be a more welcoming,  collaborative community where everyone can do their   best work and has the opportunity to succeed. Our Board  of Directors participates in the leadership and discussion  of our COI journey. 
Our People   Workplace 
Workforce Diversity Recognition 
Human Rights Campaign  Foundation 
Corporate Equality Index,  100% overall rating 
Best Places to Work for  LGTBQ  Equality 
Applied Materials is consistently recognized for our efforts around workforce diversity and military veteran recruitment. 
Military Friendly Employer 
100%-plus overall rating,  exceeds every standard 
U.S. Veterans Magazine 
Top Veteran-Friendly  Company 
Eliminating Systemic Barriers to Inclusion Our COI strategy includes training and empowering  managers to listen, learn, and take action. We will  double down on our initiatives to teach our leaders how  to eliminate bias in our business processes, hiring and  placement decisions, succession plans, and even how we  run meetings, so that all voices are heard. In addition to  policies on nondiscrimination and harassment enumerated  in our Standards of Business Conduct and Human  Resources Policy Manual, we ve instituted a variety of  other trainings, mechanisms, and activities to promote  our Culture of Inclusion, such as: 
  Using focus groups   our employee survey  to gauge sentiment. Our employee survey is  an essential barometer of our organizational  health, and recently expanded Inclusion Index  questions have provided meaningful insights to  inform our Culture of Inclusion strategies. While  Applied continues to score in the top quartile for  organizational health and engagement indices  based on McKinsey s global database, our most  recent survey results reinforce the opportunities  we are addressing with our inclusion roadmap  and strategies. 
Woman Engineer Magazine  
Top 50 Employers 
Sustainability Report 2019 52 
Our People   Workplace 
Operationalizing Inclusion in All We Do  Living an ethic of inclusion and diversity means  operationalizing it at every level of the organization, every  stage of our value chain, and every touchpoint between  our company and the world. Our diversity and inclusion  recruitment strategies focus on building a talent pipeline  through science, technology, engineering, and math  (STEM) education and support, as well as connecting with  diverse candidates through multiple channels, including  our Employee Resource Groups. 
We continue to seek out diverse talent at universities  with strong engineering and science programs, including  U.S. universities with large Black African-American  and Hispanic Latino student populations. Additionally,  we re expanding our educational outreach efforts and  participating in on-site networking and informational  events to attract college students pursuing STEM careers.  Applied Materials Foundation s Generation Girl  initiative  funds organizations that promote girls  empowerment and  introduce participants to careers in STEM and other fields  where women are traditionally underrepresented. 
FY2019 U.S. Workforce Ethnicity   Race  Representation by Employee Level 
White employees 52.5% 53.8% 44.7% 
Asian employees 44.0% 34.4% 44.4% 
Hispanic or Latino employees 2.0% 6.3% 6.6% 
Black or African   American employees 0.7% 3.8% 2.9% 
Other URMs 0.7% 1.7% 1.5% 
  Exploring inclusion in team-building. At our  2019 Culture of Inclusion Summit, more than  400 participants in Austin, Kalispell, and Santa  Clara engaged with the year s theme of  Building  Winning Teams Through Inclusion.  Participants  studied strategies and best practices for harnessing  diverse and inclusive perspectives to succeed in an  environment of mutual trust and respect. 
  Unpacking unconscious bias   celebrating  difference. In our India operations, we offer a  diversity and inclusion course to all full-time  employees. The training addresses barriers and  challenges to a diversified working environment and  helps employees draw on each other s strengths. 
Executives Managers Professionals 
Additional talent-related efforts include: 
  Our North America internship program, which  brings students from diverse backgrounds to  work in both engineering and corporate roles.  Our interns not only learn about various career  paths, but also gain exposure to our diverse and  inclusive workplace. 
  Our New College Graduate (NCG) programs,  designed to attract and retain new talent and  build a diverse early-career talent pipeline for  future roles. Our U.S. outreach efforts include  sponsoring, hosting, and participating in a  wide range of activities, such as the Math,  Engineering and Science Achievement (MESA)  Student Leadership Conference, the National  Society of Black Engineers Regional Conference,  the Society of Women Engineers Evening with  Industry event, and the University of California,  Berkeley s Engineering Department Networking  and Professional Etiquette event.  
Sustainability Report 2019 53 
Our People   Workplace 
  Increased focus on early-career recruiting, which has  yielded success in several global locations. In 2019,  top-tier university events in Taiwan helped more than  160 young women learn about careers at Applied.  In India, women comprised 31% of our NCGs hired  in FY2019. In Israel, our internship program builds  on student networking to ensure a talent pipeline,  resulting in more than 80% of interns converting to  full-time positions upon graduation. 
  Partnerships with U.S. non-profit and educational  institutions that provide women and young people of  diverse backgrounds with educational opportunities.  Notable organizations and programs we support  include Mexican American Engineers and Scientists,  the Society of Women Engineers, Youth Science  Institute, and City Year. Working with the Breakthrough  Collaborative partnership in Santa Clara and Austin for  the past 16 years, we help local students become the  first in their families to attend college. 
 The Women in Engineering Talent  Development Program gave  me the insight to elaborate my  career development plan with  an actionable plan to follow. The  program has helped me better  communicate my ideas, know my  value as a professional, and be open  and attentive to others  feedback.   I am grateful for the opportunity   of being part of this program.   
Adriana Esteves, Tech Project Program Management,   Santa Clara, CA 
  Outreach to underserved students in India via the  Khalapur Learning Centre in Raigad, Maharashtra.  Created in August 2019 through a partnership  between Applied Materials and the Pratham Education  Foundation, the Centre provides middle school  students from severely underserved schools and  communities with hands-on activities to help them  better understand basic concepts of science and their  real-world applications. 
  Our Women in Engineering Talent Development  Program, which offers resources to support the career  growth of female engineers, including opportunities  to participate in conferences, professional skill  development workshops, roundtables focused on  career development, and mentoring programs. 
U.S. New Hires by Gender 
Focus on Women 
In 2019, we continued seeing an increase in female  new hires. We are particularly proud that this trend is  also reflected in our U.S. intern program, where our  female hires increased to 44% of our 2019 total.  
Female New Hires U.S. Intern Program Female Hires 
FY2019 FY2018 FY2017 
Sustainability Report 2019 54 
Our People   Workplace 
Employee Resource Groups   Sponsorships 
Active in promoting cultural awareness and volunteerism  in their local communities, our Employee Resource  Groups (ERGs) are also vital in building Applied s culture  of engagement and inclusion by providing forums for  exchanging ideas, learning, and strengthening bonds  across and within our diverse employee communities.  Additionally, they play a key advisory role in our leaders   efforts to remove systemic barriers to inclusion.  
Our ERG groups include: 
Since our first chapter began in 2001, our ERGs have seen  exponential growth. This is particularly true for WPDN,  which has more than tripled in size since 2017. During  this same timeframe, participation in our ERG chapters  overall has grown by 62%. 
In addition to our ERGs, Applied Materials is proud  to sponsor multiple organizations and conferences  committed to deepening our inclusive workplace culture  and furthering the careers of our diverse employees.  In 2019 and 2020, more than 600 employees attended  various Diversity and Inclusion conferences, including  the IEEE Conference for Women, The Texas Conference  for Women, The Watermark Conference for Women,  MA Conference for Women, and National Diversity and  Leadership Conference.  
  Applied PRIDE 
  Asians in Motion (AIM) 
  Persians at Applied Materials 
  Hispanics in Partnership (HiP) 
  Leadership Encouraging Achievement through  Diversity Black Employee Network (LEAD BEN) 
  Veterans Employee Team (VET) 
  Women s Professional Development Network  (WPDN) 
  Young Professionals Network (YPN)  
Employment Policies   Practices 
To nurture innovation that can help build a better future,  we need to attract and retain a world-class global  workforce and foster an environment where our people  can do their best work, enjoy continuous learning and  career progress, and thrive as individuals and as a  community.  
Applied Materials invests in all our employees by  offering competitive rewards, compensation, and  benefits  measuring organizational health and employee  engagement, along with more traditional performance  drivers  and taking a strategic approach to talent pipeline  development. 
In addition to our focus on creating a Culture of Inclusion,  in 2019 we instituted a number of employment policy and  program improvements: 
  Expanded 100% paid parental and family leave  
  Began surveying employee engagement as part  of organizational health 
  Piloted a new methodology of strategic  workforce planning 
to up to eight weeks in the U.S. 
2019 Recognition 
Best Places to Work in IT   ranked 5th among  large companies 
World s Most Admired Companies,  semiconductor sector   ranked 3rd, up from  5th place in 2018 
Sustainability Report 2019 55 
Our People   Workplace 
A Global Workforce 
Applied Materials is a global company with a workforce  of 23,234 individuals located across 18 countries. We  employ 9,639 individuals in the United States, 4,556  of whom are located at our Santa Clara Headquarters  in California s Silicon Valley. The vast majority of our  workforce is employed on a full-time basis (22,014), with  less than 1% working part-time.  
Total Employees by Region 
   Includes all regular full-time employees and interns 
Employee Benefits Applied Materials provides competitive rewards and  benefits covering employees  physical, emotional, and  financial health. Benefit coverage is effective on the first  day of employment for regular full-time U.S. employees.  Our standard benefits package includes: 
  Parental Leave: Applied Materials offers up to  eight weeks of 100% paid parental leave. This  extends to mothers, fathers, adoptive parents,  and foster parents. 
  Family Medical Leave: Employees are eligible for  up to eight weeks of 100% paid family leave to  care for seriously ill family members.  
  Adoption Credit: Applied offsets the costs of  legal child adoption by up to  5,000. 
  Holidays   Additional PTO: Applied has eight  annual paid holidays. Additional paid time off  (PTO) is provided through a flexible program.   
  Tuition Assistance: We offer up to  8,500 per  calendar year for educational activities that  improve skills and knowledge required for the  employee s position. 
Asia  Paci c 43% 
Americas 44% 
Employees also have access to travel assistance, as well  as to additional financial benefits for expenses including  auto insurance, home and renters insurance, insurance for  legal services, and online PerkSpot discounts at popular  national and local merchants. 
Executive Compensation Executive compensation is reviewed each year with  stakeholders and redesigned as appropriate to ensure  it remains competitive. In FY2019, our Board s Human  Resources and Compensation Committee approved an  aggressive set of scorecard targets for our executive  officers, covering operational targets such as safety  performance, organizational health, and employee  engagement. Annual incentive bonuses are based on  performance to Applied s objectives and to the scorecard s  quantifiable business and strategic goals. 
  Health   Wellness: We offer medical, dental,  and vision care plans to employees, along with  health coaching, a wellness incentive program,  and resources for employees living with serious  medical conditions such as diabetes and cancer.  On-site wellness centers with competitively  priced medical services, free behavioral health  and coaching, and fitness centers are also  available at key locations in the U.S.  
  Rethink Program: Applied offers access to the  award-winning Rethink program to support  employees or their children who experience  learning differences or behavioral challenges.  The program provides research-based resources,  access to live tele-consultation with behavior  experts, and over 1,500 easy-to-follow videos,  printable materials, and trainings to help  employees and children reach their potential. 
  Financial   Income Protection: We provide  employees with retirement plans  accident,  disability, and life insurance coverage  and flexible  spending accounts (FSAs). Employees also have  access to student loan refinancing, mortgage  loans, and money planning support online via SoFi  at Work. 
  Financial Rewards: We provide our employees  base pay, bonus, and equity compensation at  or above market. Our Employee Stock Purchase  Plan (ESPP) allows employees to contribute 1%  to 25% of their base salary (up to  6,500) to  purchase stock every six months, at a minimum  discount of 15%. 
Generation  Girl 
8.4%    914k 
Sustainability Report 2019 56 
Insights from our OHI survey are used annually to inform  both company-wide and business-unit-level organizational  and talent development plans.  
Employee Engagement   Organizational Health Applied Materials is considered one of the best places to  work in our field by a range of competitive industry lists    and most importantly, by our employees. We manage  and measure organizational health with the same rigor as  more traditional performance drivers, gaining insight into  employees  experiences, levels of workplace satisfaction,  and feelings of engagement with the company. 
We use McKinsey   Company s Organizational Health  Index (OHI) to measure Applied s organizational health,  based on an annual, enterprise-wide employee survey. In  2019, we added new questions to measure employees   engagement towards their work and the organization, as  well as their social engagement or sense of community in  the workplace. Among the results: 
Our People   Workplace 
  2020 Applied Materials, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
  The survey had an 87% employee participation  rate   our highest to date  
  Employee engagement increased over FY18,  putting Applied Materials in the top quartile for  engagement in McKinsey s global OHI database 
  People increasingly want to work at Applied  because of the culture and work environment 
  We continue to rank in the top quartile for overall  health in the McKinsey database 
  Applied Materials achieved an overall   healthy  rating on the OHI 
  Recruitment   New Hires 
To identify and attract the best talent, we run several  targeted programs, including student internships and  recruitment campaigns for new college graduates. 
Global Intern Program: In 2019, Applied employed over  200 interns globally, providing a diverse group of talented  students from leading colleges and universities with  hands-on industry experience and insight. Our U.S. offices  hired 124 interns, with a diverse hire rate of 56%. In India,  Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan, we hosted over 50 interns. 
New College Graduate Program: Essential to attracting  and retaining top talent, our New College Graduate (NCG)  programs focus on ensuring gender and racial diversity  in our workforce, bringing a range of backgrounds and  perspectives. 
Talent Pipeline Development In 2019, we introduced a new and well-researched  talent model which offers a simple yet comprehensive  approach to assessing employees in current roles, as well  as selecting and placing candidates into new roles at all  levels in the organization. This model improves accuracy  when assessing talent for current needs, succession  management, and development planning for current or  future roles. It can be applied to any role in the company  and serves as the foundation for all talent practices:  assessment, selection, placement, and development.  The model was rolled out enterprise-wide starting with  the executive team, all leaders, and then managers and  employees. About 80% of all managers and 70% of all  employees have been trained on the model and its usage.  The model is being systematically integrated in different  talent practices starting with a FY19 focus on executive  team assessment and development, succession planning,  and critical role profile and development.    
Additionally, as we think about our workforce strategy,  we consider the following: 
  Right Size: Attract the number and type of  people to reach our strategic goals 
  Right Skill: Identify needed capability and  experience to allow planning and fill gaps 
  Right Site: Ensure the right people work   in the needed locations 
  Right Spend: Invest in resources with a   focus on cost effectiveness 
  Right Shape: Design appropriate, strategy- aligned organizational structures to enable  innovation, connectivity, and speed 
Sustainability Report 2019 57 
In 2019, we achieved numerous successes  with our NCG program: 
Our People   Workplace 
  Ninety new college graduates participated in  an onboarding program for the Semiconductor  Products Group, which provides two weeks  of in-class training in Santa Clara followed by  a week in Austin for in-depth learning about  manufacturing and supply chain. 
  Our Ion Implant Business Unit took the lead in  developing our two-year Fusion Rotation Program  for graduates in key engineering disciplines.  Participants rotate between different work areas,  completing hands-on assignments and working on  large, collaborative year-end engineering projects.  The rotations assist in determining participants   final placement upon program completion. 
  Our Finance Rotation Program provided  graduates at our Austin and Silicon Valley  offices ongoing mentoring, networking, skills  development, and hands-on experience across  various finance disciplines before they transition  to permanent roles at Applied. 
  Applied s Supply Chain team initiated a Supply  Chain Rotation Program in partnership with the  University Recruiting team. In this program, eight  candidates rotated through three placements of  six months a piece, and two MBA graduates went  through two rotations. 
  In the U.S., our university recruiting team  continued its long partnership with the  Leadership Encouraging Achievement through  Diversity (LEAD)   Black Employee Network  (BEN) to recruit outstanding talent from North  Carolina A T, ranked number-one among public  Historically Black Colleges and Universities  (HBCUs). 
  In Silicon Valley and Austin, we partnered  with several of Applied s Employee Resource  Groups (ERGs) to bring local female and  underrepresented minority students to our  campuses and potentially into our workforce,  resulting in several new hires for both the U.S.  internship and NCG programs. 
  In China, our first large-scale NCG program in  the country since 2000 resulted in recruitment  of nearly 60 graduates. As part of this New Star  program, we conducted interviews at 39 top  universities. Twenty-one percent of these new  hires hold a Master s or Doctoral degree and  14% are female. The reinvigorated program is  enhancing our operations in a vitally important  region for the company. 
  The Santa Clara chapter of our Young  Professionals Network ERG served as editors for  students in the Stanford RISE Internship Program,  a seven-week summer program for high school  students interested in STEM topics. Many of the  students are first-generation college-bound.  
Other U.S. outreach efforts in 2019 included Silver  Sponsorship of the Math, Engineering and Science  Achievement (MESA) Student Leadership Conference  in Sacramento, CA, as well as sponsoring and  attending: 
More information about Applied Materials  support for  STEM education can be found under Operationalizing  Inclusion in All We Do and Community Impact. 
  The Society of Women Engineers (SWE)  Evening with Industry dinners at universities  including California State Polytechnic   and Cornell 
  The University of California, Los Angeles  (UCLA) Center for Excellence in Engineering  and Diversity (CEED) Networking and  Professional Etiquette Roundtable 
  The Georgia Tech Women in Materials Science  Networking Dinner 
  The Out for Undergrad (LGBTQ)   Engineering Conference 
Sustainability Report 2019 58 
Employee Learning   Development Applied Materials follows both an enterprise approach   and a federated model of employee learning and  development. 
From a federated view, business units maintain an  independent strategy for skill-building, using content   that s owned, supervised, developed, and managed by   the unit s learning team. While the units pursue success   in different ways, all are aligned around common  objectives, and logistics are coordinated centrally.   For example, Manufacturing regularly trains its own  workforce on labor rights issues as part of managing the  supply chain, and our Environmental Health   Safety  (EHS) and Sustainability organization leads employee  training and awareness on EHS management issues,  ensuring that staff go through the certification processes  for safety and skills related to technical manufacturing and  engineering work.  
From an enterprise view, our training follows through our  employee life-cycle. All employees have opportunities  for training on a wide range of general professional skills,  including communication. To date, more than 5,000  Applied employees have completed communication  training under one or more of the following programs: 
Learning   Development 
Continuous learning by our people feeds our pipeline of  innovation and pays off in employee retention. Learning  and development accomplishments for 2019 included: 
Our People   Workplace 
  Opening the Materials Engineering Technology  Accelerator (META Center) to provide an  immersive learning experience 
  Increasing the emphasis on learning and  development for leaders 
  Offering our fifth annual Applied Materials China  Nova Star New Managers Program, a six-month  training focused on core management skills with  one-on-one coaching from HR 
  Web-based communications-skills classes   via LinkedIn Learning, Coursera, and EdX 
  Instructor-led classroom trainings including  Slide-ology, Fast-Track Speaking, and Effective  Communications, via Applied Materials Service  Manager Academy 
  Effective Technical Communications covering  interpersonal, written, and presentation  communications for engineers and field personnel 
  Launching Applied Circles, a global program for  peer-to-peer mentoring and coaching  
In 2019, we observed measurable results from  communications training across the company. Managers  perceived a 20% jump in employees  ability to conduct  presentations concisely and effectively, plus a 64%  improvement in terms of the  signal-to-noise  public  speaking rubric: the ratio of relevant to irrelevant  information presented. 
We also offer learning and development to all employees  through our Applied Global University programs. 
Customized Skills Training: In 2017 we launched the  company-wide appliedX PATHWAY initiative, which  creates specialized skills training programs based on an  employee s job role and career categories. The majority  of our employees may access the program, and to date  approximately 70% of Applied s workforce has done so. 
The customized plan links job-related coursework in  areas such as technical engineering, tool and service  development, and professional skills with Applied  Materials   strategic accelerators : employee development  in areas including management and leadership, product  engineering, and sales engagement. Experts within the  company develop the curricula and employees extend  their training based on job role recommendations. In  addition, courses from world-class online-learning content  providers are available to further develop employees   capabilities and spark new learning directions.  
Employees work with their manager to determine their  development path. From there, the employee is assigned  20 to 30-plus hours of expert-defined coursework related  to his her job role. This is linked to a further 20 to 30-plus  hours of personal development course work, for a total of  40-plus hours of training development. 
Sustainability Report 2019 59 
2019 Learning Hours In 2019, 99% of employees completed their annual  recertification on the Applied Materials Standards of  Business Conduct, while 99% of full-time employees  completed additional learning hours. Overall, the annual  average of global employee training hours has been  trending upwards since 2017. Leaders, executive level   vice-presidents, and managers also logged more learning  hours in 2019 than in previous years. 
Additional information on training related to ethics and  compliance is provided here. 
Learning Hours Trends   Total Hours 
Performance Appraisals   Individual Development  Goals In 2019, we introduced a new model for assessing  and developing talent. At the start of each fiscal year,  company vice presidents begin setting performance  objectives for the company using internal strategy  scorecards. All employees define their performance  objectives for the year in alignment with those company  objectives, and include one personal development  objective. These are documented internally in the  Workday system. To enable ongoing improvement in the  quality of development conversations and plans, managers  and employees have been trained on the new model and  
Our People   Workplace 
For additional details and breakdowns, see the Report Annex. 
Disclosure FY2019 
Executive-level vice presidents 22.4 
Executive-level directors 38.8 
Manager level 56.4 
Individual contributors 64.3 
Interns 25.1 
Disclosure FY2019 FY2018 FY2017 
Total Individual  Learners (RFT) 21,850 20,930 17,199 
Total Individual  Learners (Total  Workforce) 32,087 26,704 21,706 
Total Training    Learning Hours 1,407,932 1,311,582 933,344 
with a future focus on improving proficiency in the use of  the model. 
Managers track their direct reports  progress and results  during the year and have quarterly check-ins and an  annual evaluation to review progress against performance  and development goals. In 2019: 
Coaching   Mentoring In March 2019, we launched our global Applied Circles  program to build internal networks, foster new employee  contacts, and provide peer-to-peer coaching, mentoring,  and training. Participants are matched with another  employee once per month, and hold  get to know  and  monthly follow-on discovery meetings. The initiative  has seen a tremendous response, growing from 80  participants in its first month to 344 by August 2019. 
In 2019, we also provided select executives with training  on coaching strategies, conducted by UC Berkeley. 
  99% of employees received regular performance  and career development reviews 
  90% of employees had a development goal in  place, surpassing our corporate target of 85% 
  87% of employees who chose to establish  a development plan (comprised of several  development objectives) completed their plan 
Economics of Service Course 
Applied Materials is proud of our managers  and  executives  engaged leadership around workforce  learning and development. One good example is our  Economics of Service course, which is facilitated by  our vice president of Finance.  
Open to all employees, Economics of Service is a  highly collaborative session that teaches the key  financial aspects of Applied s service business,  and the impacts of employees  decisions on the  business. Our VP s expertise and passion for the  topic has made this one of our most in-demand  executive-led courses, with over 1,000 global  employees trained by year-end 2019. To extend the  course s reach, the VP is currently working with our  learning development team to create a blended- learning version of this class, with an interactive  online module covering the basics and a live VP-led  virtual session driving home the learning. 
Sustainability Report 2019 60 
 I look at my career and myself in  ways I d never thought of before.   
Engineering   Process Training  In 2019, Applied partnered with the State of New  York to create the Materials Engineering Technology  Accelerator (META Center). The center takes a novel  approach in process development and skills training  for our new engineers, aligned with strategic corporate  goals including: 
Technical training on Applied Materials platforms at  the META Center gives trainees an immersive learning  experience in conditions almost indistinguishable from  those they will encounter at a customer s HVM (high  volume manufacturing) fab. The program is designed  to minimize any impact to tool start-up activities  while reducing the need for North American engineers  to travel to Asia, where these trainings are typically  offered.  
The program launched in the U.S., and we plan to  expand it to other regions in 2021. 
Our People   Workplace 
In 2016, Applied Materials developed the two-year  Women in Engineering Talent Development  Program for employees with demonstrated drive  and leadership. Each participant creates an  individual development plan and participates in  events that foster their diversity of thought in  safe and inclusive teams, such as conferences,  professional skill development workshops,  career development roundtables, and mentoring  workshops. 
Test Engineer, Kalispell 
Women in Engineering  
  Increasing Applied Materials market share in  WFE (Wafer Fab Equipment) with enhanced  service offerings and capability 
  Developing process module solutions for  chipmakers  
  Applying precision materials engineering to  sectors beyond the semiconductor industry 
Unlimited Access to eLearning  The Applied Global University (AGU) is a tool for  organizing eLearning content in one location and  making it available to employees at any time. The AGU  platform also tracks learner progress and performance,  informs staff of compliance regulations and updates,  and integrates social learning experiences. 
Tuition Assistance   University Partnerships  Applied Materials offers tuition assistance of up to   8,500 per calendar year for educational activities to  improve skills and knowledge required for an employee s  position. In 2019, 544 U.S. employees took advantage  of the tuition benefit. 
We also partner with the California Institute of  Technology (Caltech) on a systems engineering  certification course for Applied Materials engineers. In  2019, 38 employees graduated from the third class of  the program. Following the latest employee survey and  expressions of interest, the program is set to expand  with a focus on engineering leadership. 
Building on our Caltech program, Applied Materials  and other companies have partnered with the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) for an  engineering certification course. Ten Applied employees  graduated with the inaugural class in 2019. 
Onboarding  Applied has created a structured methodology to  ensure new hires understand the tools, systems, and  processes they ll use in their new roles. We have a  specific curriculum for orientation and onboarding  in each business unit function, aimed at minimizing  new hire time to independent work, improving quality  metrics, and decreasing attrition. The curriculum is  provided through instructor-led, web-based, and virtual  classroom training, as well as job shadowing (where  possible), on-the-job-training certifications, and post- training self-help web portals. 
In manufacturing, this onboarding methodology has  led to a 40% improvement in the time until a new hire  reaches proficiency, leading to returns on investment  of between  420,000 and  600,000, depending on  onboarding numbers during each fiscal year. 
Sustainability Report 2019 61 
First-Time Supervisor Training For first-line supervisors across all experience levels,  we offer a series of specially designed and facilitated  workshops and guided implementations covering  both general and company-specific knowledge and  skills. Workshop topics include strategies to build  effective relationships and high-performance teams   coaching techniques and HR systems and processes   and techniques for managing subordinates, facilitating  decision-making, managing conflict, and influencing up  and across the organization (without authority). 
Leadership Development  To scale our leadership and team, we are applying a  powerful, research-based, role-relevant, and globally  applicable framework and tools that serve as the  foundation for our leadership pipeline development  decisions and practices (assessment, selection,  placement, development plans, coaching). The strategy  places priority on situational leadership and inclusive  leadership as core components of executive development  plans. Key metrics are associated with the framework,  including a diverse leadership team and pipeline of future  leaders, percentage of executive leadership successors  with development plans, and percentage of executive  leadership roles with more than one ready-now successor. 
To expose leaders to a broad set of functional operations  and position them to make faster and better business  decisions, we have also established the Applied  Leadership Group (ALG) event, delivered annually for all  vice presidents and managing directors. As part of this  event, our top leaders have opportunities for learning   and development. 
Applied Materials China Nova   Star New Manager Program  China is today one of Applied Materials  largest markets,  and our China organization has grown from 800-plus  employees in 2015 to over 2000 today. Applied Materials  China launched the Nova Star program in 2015 to  strengthen our leadership pipeline by accelerating  the development of first-time managers. Focused on  leadership management fundamentals and key policies  and processes, the program offers 60 hours of systematic  training, support, and one-on-one coaching over six  months. To date, 150 new managers have graduated,  leading to higher-performing teams and greater retention. 
Career Transition Assistance Applied provides appropriate severance pay and  job-placement services to employees affected by  workforce reduction programs, or in accordance with   local labor laws. 
Our People   Workplace 
Our Nova Star program  has strengthened our  leadership pipeline. 
Sustainability Report 2019 62 
Community Impact 
Our vision to make possible a better future extends  globally and locally, providing the technologies to  accelerate research on critical global challenges while  also addressing needs in our communities.  
Sustainability Report 2019 63 
FY2019 Community Giving 
Raising Up Our Communities 
To turn our values into local action, Applied Materials and the Applied  Materials Foundation engage in a broad spectrum of community  investments, principally in the focus areas of Education, Civic Engagement,  Arts   Culture, the Environment, and the Foundation s signature women  and girls empowerment initiative, Generation Girl . Additionally, various  Foundation matching gift programs amplify our employees  donations  to support issues close to their hearts. In 2019, we awarded over  10.8  million in direct corporate contributions and Foundation grants to  recipients in nine countries. 
 Total Community Giving displayed here excludes Applied Materials  Foundation s Administrative expenses.  
Generation  Girl 
8.4%    914k 
Matching Programs 
30.5%    3.3M 
Environment 
5.2%    562k 
11.5%    1.2M 
Arts   Culture 
26.5%    2.9M 
17.9%    1.9M 
Civic  Engagement 
   6.6 million in strategic grants across our four  main focus areas 
   915,000 in strategic grants dedicated to  Generation Girl  
   3.3 million in Employee Matching Gifts,  Volunteer Time Grants, Fight Against Hunger  match, and various disaster relief programs  
Sustainability Report 2019 64 
Grant Making for Social Impact 
Generation Girl  is a project of the Applied Materials  Foundation. Both Applied Materials and the Applied  Materials Foundation engage in grant making for  Education, Civic Engagement, Arts   Culture, and the  Environment, and the examples and numbers given   in this section of the report cover both Applied Materials  and Foundation grants and grantees.  
Generation Girl  Barriers are made to be broken. Through the Applied  Materials Foundation s Generation Girl  initiative, we are  working with non-profit organizations and our employees  to support girls   especially Black African-American,  Hispanic Latino and Indigenous girls   in gaining the  confidence, skills, and opportunities they need to realize  their full potential.  
Their future success is also ours: Women of color are the  tech industry s most underrepresented group. If we can  help change that by addressing societal and systemic  barriers, we can help make our future workplaces more  vibrant, equitable, and effective. 
Since its inception, Generation  Girl  has contributed   1.65 million to girls empowerment initiatives at 20  non-profit organizations ( 915,000 in FY2019), and  expanded from initial pilot sites in California, Texas, and  Massachusetts to include new grantee organizations in  New York, Oregon, and Montana. External evaluation has  shown that in its first year, Generation Girl  supported  grantee organizations provided more than 11,000 girls  (87% of them low-income and or girls of color)   with girls empowerment and leadership training and or  high-quality STEM programming. 
A complete list of 2019 2020 grantees is available here. 
In 2019, several of the Foundation s grantees were  supported by Applied Materials and our employees for  girl-empowerment initiatives and learning opportunities: 
Community Impact 
  TechBridge Girls designs and delivers STEM  programs to K 12 girls from low-income, under- resourced communities. In 2019, the organization  offered two on-campus workshops to our Silicon  Valley employees focused on understanding  gender bias and equity. Employees from the Silicon  Valley chapter of our Young Professionals Network  Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) also hosted and  taught a group of TechBridge Girls participants about  microchips and other basic engineering concepts. 
  Girls Empowerment Network teaches girls the  skills to thrive and believe in their ability to be  unstoppable. In 2019, they led a workshop for  Applied employees on the power of language as it  pertains to gender bias and stereotypes.  
  GirlStart offers STEM workshops, mentorships,  camps, and after-school programs. In 2019,  Applied employees participated in GirlStart  Summer Week, panel conversations, and group  volunteer activities with other Generation Girl   grantee organizations. 
  To celebrate International Women s Day in March  2019, employees gathered in Applied s Silicon Valley  and Austin cafeterias to learn about Generation Girl   and write notes of inspiration to a girl in their lives  and or young women participating in Generation  Girl  funded programs run by several grantee  organizations.  
Applied Materials Foundation   Generation Girl  Grantees, 2019 20  
Sustainability Report 2019 65 
Evaluation Services Provided by: 
 Just like humanity, the ocean is full of diverse  life, and it s going to take all of us to enable a  positive future.   
Educational Initiatives 
Education grants by Applied and the Foundation bring  resources and programs to communities and schools in  need worldwide, helping inspire young minds, open new  doors, and pave the way for success in school and in life.  In FY2019, we provided  2.9 million in funding to 74  organizations, many focused primarily on basic literacy.  These included: 
Additionally, we supported organizations in Gloucester,  Massachusetts  Kalispell, Montana  San Jose, California   and Manor, Texas  these organizations provide reading  programs to prevent summer learning loss and improve  literacy outcomes, especially for at-risk students and  students reading below grade level. 
Community Impact 
2019 Tech for Global Good honoree Julie Packard 
  Bookspring (Austin, TX): Bookspring   supports 2,500 low-income, high-needs youth  with a ten-week early literacy program as well  as new children s books to encourage summer  reading practice and reduce the summer reading  skills slide. 
  Taiwan Fund for Children and Families   (Big Tainan): The fund enhances libraries in Big  Tainan s rural communities, providing new books  and developing reading programs for children and  parents. 
  Wuxi Lingshan Charity Foundation   (Rural China): The organization s Library Project  helps improve regional education infrastructure  and enhance children s literacy development by  establishing high-quality libraries and teacher  training programs. 
  ChildFund Korea (Incheon City): ChildFund  Korea s Smart Reader Program provides after- school programs focused on reading and exercise  activities for children from low-income families. 
            Tech for Global Good Awards  
Named in honor of Applied Materials   chairman emeritus, the James C. Morgan  Global Humanitarian Award is presented  annually at the Tech for Global Good Awards  by Applied Materials and Silicon Valley s  The Tech Interactive science and technology  center to recognize visionary leaders who are  combating global environmental and social  challenges. With past honorees including Bill  Gates, Al Gore, Ted Turner, and Queen Rania  of Jordan, the award underscores Silicon  Valley s focus on making people s lives better  through technology: reducing inequality,  leveling the playing field, and ensuring all  voices are heard. 
At the annual Tech for Global Good awards  ceremony, 2019 honors went to Monterey Bay  Aquarium executive director Julie Packard for  promoting conservation, education, and ocean  research. Aligning with the event s theme  of technology empowering women, Packard  has long championed efforts to increase girls   and women s participation in science and  technology, helping create the next generation  of ocean conservation leaders. 
Sustainability Report 2019 66 
Community Impact 
Raising Environmental Awareness 
Environmental grantmaking by Applied and the  Foundation focuses on youth education and community- based projects designed to engage people with the natural   world and build a more sustainable future.  
In FY2019, we awarded  560,000 in grants to 42   non-profits, supporting: 
In addition, Applied employees participated in a variety  of environmental stewardship activities during our annual  spring EarthWorks campaign. In Japan, employees and  their families collected 860 pounds of garbage on Mount  Fuji, while a tree planting team distributed 700 saplings  to employees for their home gardens. In Austin, Texas,  employees planted trees on public lands as part of the  CityShade program, and in Kalispell, Montana, employees  took part in events to clean up and maintain local trails.  In India, our people worked with United Way Bangalore  on newspaper recycling projects and making seed balls  for planting. In the U.S. and Germany, Applied offices  participated in Bike to Work Days to promote   commuting by bicycle.  
  Field Trip Programs: The Glacier National Park  Conservancy (Montana), Youth Science Institute  (Silicon Valley), the National Audubon Society  (Phoenix, Arizona), and Austin Youth River  Watch (Manor, Texas) connect underserved  children with nature through a variety of field  trips. 
  The Jane Goodall Institute: Education programs  focus on sustainable development, encouraging  youth in China to become independent,  responsible, and environmentally-conscious  citizens. 
  Moatza le Shimur Atarim: Efforts for at-risk  children in Rehovot, Israel, include environmental  education classes and the creation of a student- nurtured organic vegetable garden at the  Pardesanut Museum. 
  IShare Community Development Association:  
Education programs at high schools in Hsinchu,  Taoyuan, and Miaoli, Taiwan, focus on raising  awareness of major environmental issues from a  regional perspective. 
Advancing Arts   Culture 
Creativity drives new ideas that can transform the way we  live. In FY2019, Applied and the Foundation continued our  support for culturally diverse programming in the visual  and performing arts, awarding  1.24 million in grants to  70 non-profits. Among the highlights: 
Applied families worked on the banks of the Sile River near Treviso, Italy with  nonprofit Legambiente to learn about ecology and take action to improve the  environment. 
  Applied Materials Art Festival: In Taiwan, the  Yuehan Culture and Education Foundation s 19th  annual Applied Materials Art Festival Program  engaged over 8,000 community attendees in the  arts through lectures and performances. 
  Opera Cultura s La Llorona: In Silicon Valley,  Opera Cultura reinterpreted La Llorona (The  Weeping Woman), a legend that has been a part  of Hispanic culture in the U.S. Southwest since  the 16th century. 
  Shanghai Traditional Arts   Culture Programs:  
  Rockport Music s Jazz Ensemble Residency  Youth Programs: A jazz program for children  in Gloucester and the surrounding North Shore  Massachusetts area, offering workshops,  presentations, and community performances. 
  Young Audiences of Oregon: Performances of  traditional Latin American music centered on the  music s Native American, European, and African  influences. 
  Heard Museum s D a Del Ni o 2019: A free  youth- and family-centered community event  celebrating Native American and other cultural  arts in Phoenix, Arizona. 
Charyou Youth Volunteer Service Center s  programming inspires ethnic minority children to  develop their talent and share traditional arts and  culture. 
Sustainability Report 2019 67 
Community Impact 
Promoting Civic Engagement 
Civic engagement grants from Applied and the Foundation  strengthen the ability of NGOs and the non-profit sector  to address community challenges and help people  find stability in difficult times. Areas of focus include  supporting affordable housing, building collaborative  approaches to ending homelessness, and improving  access to nutritious food and clean water. We also  contribute to relief and recovery efforts when natural  disasters affect our communities around the world. In  FY2019,  1.9 million in grants funded 81 organizations. 
Promoting Housing Stability In 2019, we supported organizations in Silicon Valley   Gloucester, Massachusetts  and Austin, Texas  all of these  organizations are dedicated to providing at-risk individuals  and families with access to affordable housing, reduced  rent, family stabilization services, emergency financial  assistance, and financial management training and  support. Other highlights included: 
Fight Against Hunger For decades, Applied Materials has conducted a Fight  Against Hunger campaign across communities in North  America where our employees work and live. In November  and December 2019, employees raised  2.35 million  (including matching funds from the Applied Materials  Foundation) for 40 food banks across the country.   The year also saw Fight Against Hunger expand for the  first time to include Applied Materials communities  around the world, with efforts tailored to the communities   specific needs. 
  Building Homes with Habitat for Humanity:   We funded the building of one new, high-quality,  energy-efficient home in Austin, Texas, and four  affordable homes for low-income families in  Montana s Flathead Valley.  
  Supporting Victims of Childhood Illness:  
  Caring for Orphaned   Abandoned Children:  
  Promoting Affordable Housing: Through Silicon  Valley organizations such as SPUR, SV Home,  and Catalyze SV, we fund collaborative efforts to  raise public awareness and inspire action around  affordable housing. 
In Munich, Germany, Stiftung Ambulantes  Kinderhospitz provides support to families with  newborns, infants, children, and adolescents  suffering severe and life-threatening illness. 
Through SOS Children s Villages, we sponsor  family homes, personalized care, and a nurturing,  stable environment for orphaned and abandoned  children in Bangalore, India.  
Turkey Trot Supports Vulnerable Populations The largest timed Thanksgiving Day race in the U.S., the  Applied Materials Silicon Valley Turkey Trot has raised   9.6 million for charities over its 15-year history. In 2019,  438 Applied employees participated in the event, which  generated  800,000 for local charities providing food,  shelter, and healthcare for vulnerable populations.  
  Israel: Through Latet Israel Humanitarian Aid  and Leket, Applied Israel distributed food to  economically disadvantaged families over the  Passover holiday. 
  India: Employees in India supported local  agencies with donations raised through group  workouts, food festivals, and hosting a farmer s  market. 
  China: Employees packed 500 boxes of food for  distribution to families in need and created a quiz  to raise awareness of food waste and encourage  individual behavior change. 
  Japan: An employee team packed boxes of  groceries for distribution through Second Harvest  Japan, to benefit students who lose access to  school-provided lunches during summer. 
Sustainability Report 2019 68 
Community Impact 
Employee-Led Giving 
Employee engagement amplifies Applied Materials   positive community impact, often via company-initiated  events that connect our people with local non-profits.  Employees volunteer for a variety of causes of interest and  can also maximize their personal charity support through  our Matching Gift and Volunteer Time Grant programs. 
Employee Giving   Matching Gifts  The Foundation s Employee Giving Program matches  regular full-time employees  donations to eligible  non-profit organizations and K-12 schools up to  3,000  per year. During CY2019, employee-selected giving  accounted for more than 30% of Foundation grants,  benefitting 1,949 non-profit organizations including St.  Jude Children s Research Hospital, Second Harvest of  Silicon Valley, Central Texas Food Bank, and Doctors  Without Borders USA. 
Volunteer Time Grants  The Foundation also makes donations in recognition of  employee volunteerism at community organizations of  their choosing, at a rate of  100 per ten hours of personal  volunteer time, per calendar quarter. In CY2019, our  employees logged 15,174 volunteer hours, which led to a  total annual Foundation contribution of  49,000. 
In CY2019, our employees logged 15,174  volunteer hours, which led to a total annual  Foundation contribution of  49,000. 
Applied employees in Alzenau, Germany present a charitable grant to  Wunsch am Horizont to fulfill wishes of terminally ill patients. 
Employee Resource Groups  Applied s Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) allow our  people to engage with the communities where they live  and work, reflecting their own values and those of the  company. ERGs help foster diversity and inclusion  provide  information sharing, support, educational opportunities,  and career development  and promote cultural awareness  and volunteerism in community activities. Click here for  more details about Applied s ERGs and their impact. 
Sustainability Report 2019 69 
Ethical Leadership 
At Applied Materials, ethical business conduct is more  than rules and policies. It is ingrained in our values and  reflected in our employees  actions, every day. 
Sustainability Report 2019 70 
ESG Oversight   Management 
Our company-wide strategy on Environment, Social    Governance (ESG) is focused on integrating sustainability  into our operations and company culture through  initiatives aligned to our corporate strategy. Applied s  ESG strategy is led primarily at the vice president level  or by business group leadership, with our Board of  Directors providing oversight. In 2020, we announced the  appointment of a director of ESG, corporate sustainability,  and reporting. 
Reporting on our ESG efforts is segmented by focus  area: 
Environmental Health   Safety (EHS): The Board receives  a quarterly report on EHS and sustainability matters, and  the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee  receives more in-depth environmental and sustainability  updates covering emissions, energy, water, waste, health,  and safety on an annual basis.  
Corporate Governance 
Applied Materials  reputation for honesty and fairness is one of our  greatest assets and reflects our culture of ethics and integrity. Corporate  governance provides the foundation for that culture. Our Standards of  Business Conduct set expectations and provide guidance for upholding  the highest ethical standards in our work, with clear corporate policies,  procedures, and reporting structures in place to assure implementation. 
See the Report Annex for additional information on Applied s corporate governance structures and policies. 
Supply Chain   Conflict Minerals: The Board reviews  material supply chain issues. The Audit Committee  reviews our annual conflict minerals report filed with   the SEC. 
Our People   Workplace: The Board s Human Resources    Compensation Committee (HRCC) oversees corporate  culture and human capital management programs,  including our diversity and inclusion practices and  initiatives. The HRCC has approved ESG objectives for  our annual bonus program to incentivize leadership to  improve employee safety, engagement, and learning  and development  to promote a Culture of Inclusion   and to accelerate the representation of women and  underrepresented minorities in our workforce.  
Community Engagement: Much of our community  engagement and grantmaking is led by the Applied  Materials Foundation, which has its own board and is  independently audited annually.  
All Applied Materials corporate governance documents   are publicly available here. The 2020 Proxy Statement   is available here.  
Sustainability Report 2019 71 
Ethics   Compliance 
Applied is committed to being a good corporate citizen  and a trusted partner to our customers, suppliers, and  shareholders. Each member of our workforce plays a  part in this commitment by acting with responsibility and  integrity throughout every workday, and our executives  and managers are expected to lead by example. 
To help instill integrity in our culture, Applied maintains  a Global Ethics and Compliance Program with strong  leadership and engagement from senior management.   The Board s Audit Committee is responsible for  overseeing overall program design and implementation,  including mechanisms for confidentially and anonymously  reporting potential violations of law or company policy,  and reviewing and investigating matters relating to the  integrity of executive officers. Employee-engagement  efforts include ethics training and awareness campaigns,  campus fairs, information tables, and an annual Ethics Week.  
See the Report Annex for additional details about our ethics  policies and governance structures. 
Ethical Leadership 
Standards of Business Conduct Applied Materials  Standards of Business Conduct  (SBC) applies to our entire global workforce and trusted  partners, ensuring the highest ethical standards in our  interactions with customers, suppliers, internal and  external shareholders, colleagues, and the communities  where we work and live. Updated in 2019 and  currently being refreshed for a 2020 relaunch, the SBC  communicates our values and standards of behavior,  promotes employee trust in management s commitment  to our values, empowers employees to speak up without  fear of retaliation, and provides comprehensive guidance  about risks, laws, policies, and reporting processes,  including key areas such as: 
To enable real-time data analytics and insights on  compliance with our Standards, we maintain a global  dashboard for tracking gifts, meals, and entertainment,  and are in the process of digitizing employee reporting  around conflicts of interest, third-party due diligence,  and charitable donations. We are also completing an  independent anti-corruption risk assessment, the results  of which will be used to enhance our program with   best-in-class processes and practices. 
Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct Applied Materials sets clear expectations for social  responsibility in our supply chain, requiring our vendors  and suppliers to comply with both our own Standards  and the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of  Conduct. The RBA Code covers labor, health and safety,  environment, management systems, and ethics standards,  including standards for Responsible Minerals Sourcing. 
  Conflicts of Interest: Conflicts of interest are  defined as placing or appearing to place personal  interests ahead of the company s interests. All  potential conflicts of interest must be disclosed  before and during employment, and employees  are encouraged to seek guidance when in doubt.  
  Bribery   Corruption: Applied Materials is  committed to winning business based on the  merits and integrity of our products, services,  and people. Consistent with our core values, we  prohibit any form of bribery or corruption and  require compliance with anti-corruption policies  throughout our global operations.  
Sustainability Report 2019 72 
Ethics   Compliance Training 
To support our people s obligations around ethics and  compliance, we require all newly hired employees to  complete an SBC training course within their first three  weeks of employment. Existing employees must renew  their SBC training on a biannual basis. In 2019, 94.6% of  our employees completed SBC training. In 2018, the SBC  recertification rate was 99%. Employees also have access  to ongoing training in specific ethics and compliance  areas. In 2019, those included: 
Ethical Leadership 
Anti-Corruption Training   Around the World 
  In-person or webinar overviews during   new-hire orientation 
  A conflict of interest course, offered annually,  to deepen employees  policy knowledge and  educate managers on explaining the policy and  expectations to staff    
Asia and  the Paci c Completed 
Europe, Middle East  and Africa 
Incomplete 
  Live ethics training for Applied managers, to  drive a greater understanding of our policies,  expectations, and compliance investigation  process (this training will become an online  course in 2020) 
  An online module on insider trading, embedded  within our  Standards of Business Conduct 101   course 
Applied s 2019 Ethics Week 
Applied Materials  Ethics   Compliance team  hosted our annual Ethics Week in the U.S. in  February 2019, while our international locations  held regional Compliance Weeks throughout the  year. Hosted by company leaders, these well- attended events raise employee awareness of  resources and best practices that support our  culture of integrity. At our 2019 Santa Clara event,  employees participated in an interactive polling  survey to illustrate our gift and entertainment  policies, as well as policies regarding the  protection of confidential information. The event  also included an interactive game show on doing  business the right way. 
Sustainability Report 2019 73 
Ethical Leadership 
Our Open-Door Policy encourages employees to approach  their manager, human resources representative, or our  Legal or Ethics   Compliance functions to report ethics  concerns, seek counsel, or offer ideas and suggestions.  Supervisors are expected to maintain a welcoming  environment to encourage employee comfort with such  reporting. We also maintain a 24-hour Ethics Helpline run  by an independent third party.  
Our Non-Retaliation Policy protects employees who have  lodged good-faith reports of possible ethics or other policy  violations, or participated in any investigation, proceeding,  or hearing. Employees who retaliate or attempt to retaliate  are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including  termination of employment.  
Our Ethics   Compliance (E C) Dashboard maintains  information from the helpline and other channels,  providing case and inquiry data for internal case  management and data analytics. Yearly and quarterly,  we use this information to examine trends in total case  inquiry numbers versus cases referred for investigation,  litigation, or closure.  
Applied raises awareness about these reporting channels  and policies through our Standards of Business Conduct  and related trainings. Oversight for reporting and  investigations resides with the Audit Committee of  Applied s Board of Directors. 
Ethics   Compliance Recognition Program Applied Materials  Above and Beyond Heroes program  recognizes employees who demonstrate great corporate  citizenship by championing our ethics policies and  procedures. In 2017, we introduced the program s   mascot  Chuck,  based on the electrostatic chuck used   in semiconductor manufacturing. Chuck continues to  serve as a champion for going  above and beyond  in  workplace integrity. 
Reporting Ethics Concerns 
Applied Materials prides itself on providing a positive,  diverse work environment where every employee s voice  can be heard. Numerous channels are available through  which employees and suppliers may speak up, either  anonymously or by name, if they become aware of  conduct inconsistent with our values or policies.  
Employee Ethics Survey 
On a biannual basis, Applied Materials conducts a  company-wide employee survey on ethics, administered  by a third party. The survey captures employees   perceptions of Applied s culture, climate, and compliance  program resources by assessing five key attributes most  strongly connected to reducing misconduct risk: comfort  speaking up, organizational justice, tone at the top, clarity  of expectations, and openness of communication. The  report benchmarks our results against industry peers,  identifies opportunities for improvement, and helps gauge  the impact and effectiveness of past and current programs  and campaigns. 
Political Engagement 
Applied Materials participates in hearings, meetings,  trade association advocacy, and other efforts to inform  policymakers about current and future issues and  challenges critical to our company, our customers, and  our end users. We are continuously working to advance  policy changes in areas such as corporate tax, human  resources and labor, international competition, trade  barrier removal, technology regulation, and R D issues. 
Sustainability priorities also figure prominently in our  interactions with policymakers and regulators, including: 
In 2019, Applied Materials joined the Business Coalition  for the Equality Act, publicly expressing our support  and helping to advocate on Capitol Hill for a bill (H.R.  5) adding LGBTQ rights to a federal statute against  discrimination. 
  Fostering partnerships with public research  institutions and research programs to share  knowledge and identify future technology  development needs 
  Advocating for government R D funding and  other incentives to meet growing technology  demands, including for AI- and battery-related  technologies and applications 
  Seeking policy consensus around AI-related  security and privacy concerns 
  Advocating for immigration reform that  embraces the valuable role immigrants play in the  U.S. economy 
  Advocating for fairness, diversity, and inclusion,  including LGBTQ rights 
Sustainability Report 2019 74 
Ethical Leadership 
Oversight   Standards Applied is committed to transparency and disclosure  about our political engagement, and maintains  robust internal oversight processes to govern political  contributions and other political expenses. 
Our Government Affairs (GA) group leads our public  policy efforts, including recommending contributions  to political candidates. GA coordinates with Applied s  executive-level head for each issue area and reports to the  vice president of Community   Public Affairs for decisions  on adopting positions as a company. 
Applied Materials  Standards of Business Conduct  provides guidance on permissible financial contributions  to government officials.  
Political Contributions Within the bounds of applicable laws, Applied makes  contributions to support issues of strategic importance  to the company and candidates advancing those issues  in U.S. states districts in which Applied has a significant  presence. 
The Applied Materials, Inc. Political Action Committee  (AMPAC) disburses contributions to federal candidates  and political action or political party committees, while  our State Contributions Committee oversees corporate  political spending at the state and local levels. Officers of  these committees review all Government Affairs group  contribution recommendations to ensure they align with  company priorities. Contributions are subject to approval  by Applied senior management and are reported to our  Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary and the Chair  of AMPAC. Additionally, prior to issuance, contributions  are reviewed by outside counsel to confirm compliance  with current regulations. Regular compliance-system  reviews also examine all contributions for compliance with  the law and company policies. 
Political Spending  
Total value of financial and in-kind  contributions to political parties,  candidates, and related institutions   by Applied Materials 
Total value of financial and in-kind  contributions to political parties,  candidates, and related institutions   by AMPAC 
  84,000  47,000  85,500  68,500 
CY2019 CY2018 CY2017 CY2016 
  0  10,000  5,000  30,000 
Contributions are based solely on corporate objectives,  without regard for committee members  private political  preferences. No contribution may be made in return for,  or in anticipation of, an official act. All contributions  are reported in filings with the U.S. Federal Elections  Commission or the appropriate state agency, as  applicable. Applied s total political contributions are  publicly disclosed biannually and can be viewed on our  website. During 2019, political contributions made by  AMPAC and the State Contributions Committee totaled   84,000. 
See the Report Annex for additional details on Applied s  political donation policies, mechanisms, and compliance  practices. 
Business   Trade Associations Applied Materials belongs to various business and  trade associations representing issues that align with  our corporate strategy and the needs of our company,  industry, employees, and communities. Our membership  in a group does not imply that we endorse the entirety of  that group s policy positions. 
In 2019, Applied paid approximately  540,000 in trade  association membership dues, 19% of which was  specified by the associations as non-deductible lobbying  expenditures. This total does not include conference or  event sponsorships, programming activities, or similar  costs. Applied Materials reports on federal lobbying  through the Lobbying Disclosure Act Database. We file  periodic reports with the federal and state agencies as  appropriate. 
Our U.S. Trade and Business Associations membership list  can be found here. 
Sustainability Report 2019 75 
See our Sustainability Report 2019 Annex for key quantitative data  compiled in accordance with the GRI and SASB frameworks and  standards, along with additional details on our workforce, revenues,  sales, stakeholders, locations, and EHS certifications. 
   2020 Applied Materials, Inc., Applied Materials and the Applied Materials logo are trademarks of Applied Materials, Inc. and or its affiliates in the  U.S. and other countries. Third party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. 