SAMSUNG ELECTRO-MECHANICS 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
5G Network 
Automotive 
For further details in relation to this report,  
please contact us at: Communication Group,  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics Co., Ltd   
150 (Maetan-Dong), Maeyoung-Ro,  
Yeongtong-Gu, Suwon-Si, Gyeonggi-Do,  
16674, Republic of Korea 
Tel:  82-31-300-7552 
E-mail: sempr samsung.com 
COVER STORY 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics' sustainability management is  
to create a brighter future. We will provide the value of the  
digital world to our stakeholders through future technologies  
that utilize our core competencies so far. 
Reporting Period and Reporting Cycle 
The reporting period for this report is the fiscal year  
2018 (January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018). In  
the case of quantitative information, information  
for the three years from 2016 to 2018 is included  
for comparison with past performance. Since its  
first Sustainability Report in June 2006, Samsung  
Electro-Mechanics has published a report every two  
years. From 2018, Samsung Electro-Mechanics will  
actively communicate with stakeholders through its  
annual publication. 
Scope of the Report 
This report encompasses the economic,  
environmental and social performance of domestic  
and some overseas production sales work sites.  
All data related to this report is compiled on a  
consolidated basis. When it comes to some  
indicators, however, the scope of the report has  
been restricted to domestic sites. 
Reporting Standards 
This report has been prepared in accordance with  
the GRI Standards: Core option. 
INTERACTIVE User Guide 
This Sustainability Report was produced in the INTERACTIVE PDF with indication of linkage to related webpages for better  
understanding of the content. Click  HOME  or  CONTENTS ,  RE PAGE  to go to that page, also it is possible to  PRINT  the page  
and to view the page in demand by clicking the icon at the top of the page. 
HOME RE PAGE CONTENTS PAGE PRINT 
Assurance of the Report 
In an effort to more transparently convey   
Samsung Electro-Mechanics s sustainability  
management activities to all stakeholders,  
this report has received assurance from KMR  
(Korea Management Registrar). Based upon  
AA1000AS(2008) guidelines, the three principles,  
 Inclusivity ,  Materiality  and  Responsiveness  are  
applied throughout the report and at the same time,  
Type 2 assurance engagement has been used with  
moderate assurance level. For related information in  
this report, please refer to page 98-99. 
Additional Information on the Report 
The additional information related to this report  
can be acquired through the Annual Report, Audit  
Report, and website of Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
as well as the disclosure site of the Financial  
Supervisory Service. 
www.samsungsem.com 
www.semstory.com 
www.facebook.com  samsungelectromechanics 
www.youtube.com user ilovesemco 
SAMSUNG ELECTRO-MECHANICS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 
ABOUT OUR COMPANY 4 
CEO Message 
Management Philosophy 
Company Profile 
Products   Applications 
CUSTOMER AND BUSINESS PARTNERS 28 
Customer and Quality 
Supply Chain 
Supplier Responsibility 
Shared Growth 
ENVIRONMENT 54 
Environmental Management System  
Eco-Friendly Operation 
Climate Change Strategy 
Product Stewardship 
COMMUNITIES 80 
Vision and Strategy 
Major Social Contribution 
Global Social Contribution 
Business Vision 
Risk Management 
Compliance Management 
Sustainability Management 
EMPLOYEES 40 
Recruitment and Workforce Configuration  
Competency Development 
Human Rights and Labor 
Safety and Health 
SHAREHOLDERS 68 
Governance 
Ethical Management 
Communication 
Management Performance 
APPENDIX 89 
Financial Statement 
ESG Key Performance Indicators 
Third-Party Assurance Statement 
Third-Party GHG Verification Statement  
GRI Content Index 
CEO MESSAGE 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has continued to respond proactively to regulations on climate change  
and the product environment. We have also managed Win-Win Cooperation programs with our  
business partners and engaged in a range of social contribution activities. Efforts like these have led  
to remarkable performance results and have earned Samsung Electro-Mechanics a place on the Dow  
Jones Sustainability World Index for 10 consecutive years, the Carbon Disclosure Project Hall of Fame  
for 9 consecutive years, and the FTSE4Good Global Index for 8 consecutive years. 
In the electronic components market, we expect a tough business environment ahead. Low growth  
continues in the smartphone, TV and PC industries, and costs are rising due to factors such as the  
fluctuating KRW USD exchange rate caused by the U.S.-China trade war. However, with the advent  
of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and game-changing technologies such as AI, autonomous cars and  
5G, we also look forward to new business opportunities. This increasing complexity and performance is  
leading to greater component integration, advancements in areas such as miniaturization and changes  
in mounting technology. For companies like Samsung Electro-Mechanics, which have been producing  
such components, we expect to see demand increase in earnest.  
By taking full advantage of such market opportunities, and by utilizing the core capabilities that we  
have built up over the years, Samsung Electro-Mechanics will be the first to respond to these market  
changes and create the basis for another leap forward. 
First, we will leverage our core competencies to secure our leading position in  the industry, and, by focusing on high-value products, strengthen our business. 
In the components business, we will further differentiate the technologies of our high-end products  
and establish a high-efficiency manufacturing line. We will also increase production flexibility so that we  
can respond quickly to changes in market conditions. Moreover, by improving the materials technology  
used for our electronic components, and by integrating our new factory in Tianjin at an early stage, we  
will grow our electronics business and continue to generate strong profits.  
As for the module business, we will reorganize our business structure to focus on high-value  
modules such as dual and triple multi-camera units. We will also differentiate our technology for key  
components, such as electro-mechanic lenses, actuators, etc. By doing so, we will strengthen our  
industry leadership in the growing optical zoom and electronic camera market as well. 
And for circuit boards, we will continue to pursue yield and quality. We will strengthen our business  
by focusing on next-generation high-value areas such as the growing market for RFPCBs for flexible  
OLED displays and server AI packages. 
 Greetings to our domestic and  
international stakeholders I extend my  
sincere gratitude for your wholehearted  
support for Samsung Electronics.  
ABOUT OUR COMPANY 
Second, we will strengthen our responsiveness to future markets by expanding  our line of products in sectors that we expect to grow as part of the Fourth  Industrial Revolution, such as 5G, AI and autonomous cars.  
The business structure of Samsung Electro-Mechanics has prepared us to adapt to the technological  
changes brought about by the Fourth Industrial Revolution, such as the miniaturization and convergence  
of components. One of the core technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution is 5G. Here we will  
introduce new high-performance products, such as 5G antenna modules, that use technologies that  
only an electro-mechanics company can produce. These will include low-loss low-permittivity circuit  
board materials, high-frequency designs and integrated circuit packages. With new products like these,  
we will lead the next-generation 5G market. 
Furthermore, we will improve the performance of semiconductors by expanding our development of  
products containing the kind of technologies that differentiate us from our competitors. These include  
next-generation circuit packages for server AI semiconductors, circuit packages with passive devices  
embedded and ultra-thin devices. This is how we will respond to the rising intelligence and speed of  
technologies like AI and autonomous cars. 
Third, we will establish a basis for qualitative, continuous growth,   through internal improvements and operational efficiency.  
We will work to speed up innovation to maximize our profits, quality and productivity. We will also  
maximize flexibility at our manufacturing sites through measures such as improving our real-time  
response systems. Moreover, we will continue to innovate and employ new techniques, such as AI  
quality control systems, to create factories of the future that are a step ahead of our competitors. At the  
same time, we will develop innovative facilities that improve production efficiency and ensure that we  
compete as one of the world s best manufacturers. We will also continue to eliminate inefficiencies and  
prepare to respond flexibly to uncertainties in the business environment. 
Under the management principle of  change, innovation and challenge,  Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
has worked to change its fundamental business approach, which has put us on a real growth trajectory.  
The coming year will be a turning point in our path to a new future. We pledge to make 2019 our best  
year yet by taking a step forward and driving meaningful results. 
To this end, all of us at Samsung Electro-Mechanics will do our utmost to achieve our goals by thinking  
methodically and acting boldly. We will build the best manufacturing sites, create value that goes  
beyond technology, and ultimately build a top-class business with high profits and sustained growth. 
We ask once again for your steadfast interest and support. 
Thank you.  
CEO MESSAGE 
President and CEO 
Yun-Tae Lee 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics aims to be a  world leading company , devoting our human resources and technology to create superior products  
Mechanics employees should follow the  Global Code of Conduct  as well as the Samsung Business Principles in order to comply with laws  
and ethical practices as well as to express our concrete commitment to social responsibility. The  Global Code of Conduct  will serve as the  
Goals, Creativity   Challenges, Insight   Good Sense, Technology   Information, Trust   Credibility, Speed   Velocity, as well as Change  
  Innovation  and install these values and elements in all employees and throughout the organization. Furthermore, all Samsung Electro- 
 People, Excellence, Change, Integrity, and Co-prosperity , and the 7 Elements of a World-Leading Company, namely  Dream, Vision    
products and services, thereby contributing to a better global society. To achieve this goal, we share and pursue the Samsung Values of  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics aims to be a  world leading company , devoting our human resources and technology to create superior  
guiding standard for everyone in Samsung Electro-Mechanics, outlining standards of conduct in all business activities. 
MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY 
The entirety of our  endeavors at Samsung  is driven by an   unyielding passion for   excellence and an  unfaltering commitment  to develop the best  possible products  and services  in the market. 
Ay Samsung, we re  dedicated to giving our people  a wealth of opportunities to   reach their full potential. 
and services, thereby contributing to a better global society. 
EXCELLENCE 
PHILOSOPHY 
Operating in an ethical  manner is the foundation of  our business. The sum of our  every action is guided by a moral  compass that ensures fairness,  respect for all stakeholders and  complete transparency. 
ABOUT OUR COMPANY 
CO-PROSPERITY 
Change is constant and  innovation is critical to  the company s survival. 
Our business cannot  be successful unless it  creates prosperity and  opportunity for people  in every local and global  community in which   we operate. 
We maintain a clean organizational  culture with high integrity 
2-1   We make a strict distinction between public and private  affairs in our duties. 2-2   We protect and respect intellectual properties of the  Company and others. 2-3 We create a sound organizational atmosphere. 2-4   We maintain the dignity of Samsung Electro-Mechanics in  our external activities. 
4-1 We pursue environment friendly management. 4-2 We value the health and safety of human beings. 
We care for the environment,  health, and safety of all 
1-1 We respect the dignity and diversity of individuals. 1-2 We compete fairly in accordance to law and business ethics. 1-3 We maintain transparency of accounts with accurate recording of transactions.  1-4 We do not intervene in politics and maintain neutrality. 1-5 We protect information on individuals and business partners. 
BUSINESS PRINCIPLES 
We comply with laws and  ethical standards 
MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY 
3-1   We put priority on customer satisfaction in   management activities. 3-2 We pursue management focused on shareholder value. 3-3 We endeavor to improve our employees  quality of life. 
5-1   We respect the social and cultural values of local  communities and practice co-existence. 5-2   We build up relationships of co-existence and   co-prosperity with business partners. 5-3   We respect the present social and cultural  characteristics and have cooperative management  (mutual prosperity cooperation). 
We are a socially responsible  corporate citizen 
We respect customers,  shareholders and employees 
Established in 1973, Samsung Electro-Mechanics has become  
a remarkable developer and manufacturer of key electronic  
components not only in Korea but also around the world. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics began as a producer of audio  
video parts, the foundation of the company that gave rise to  
the technological autonomy of the parts industry in Korea.  
During the  80s, Samsung Electro-Mechanics diversified its  
business activities and included materials and computer parts  
within its business scope, while during the  90s, it placed  
its focus on the development of next-generation products,  
including chip components, telecommunications parts, and  
optic parts. Since the turn of the century,   
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has been leveraging its  
technological excellence in key areas, such as high-frequency  
wireless materials and power precision mechanics to further  
develop its strategic technology and to generate a synergic  
effect in its businesses.  
Through this, Samsung Electro-Mechanics continues to focus  
on developing its business in boards, chip parts, camera  
modules, and communication modules with the aim to become  
the world leadaer in each of those fields. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics will continue to expand its  
business portfolio through quality enhancement, technological  
advancement, and the development of new products. It also  
aims to foster next-generation business opportunities to jump  
forward as a leader in the electronic parts industry. 
Module Solution Business Unit 
Corporate Business Support Team Global Technology Center 11,724 
Strategic Marketing Center Corporate R D Institute 
Organization Chart 
President and CEO 
Component Solution Business Unit 
COMPANY PROFILE 
Substrate Solution Business Unit 
ABOUT OUR COMPANY 
San Diego Phoenix 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: persons) 
Employees by Region 
Chicago Detroit 
Production bases 10 sites in 5 countries R D centers 2 sites in 2 countries 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: KRW million) 
Beijing Bengaluru 
Sales offices and subsidiaries 16 sites in 8 countries 
Thailand Vietnam 
COMPANY PROFILE 
Sales by Region 
Global Network 
Singapore Taipei 
Southeast Asia 
Shanghai Kunshan 
Philippines Tokyo 
PRODUCTS APPLICATIONS 
COMPONENT SOLUTION MODULE SOLUTION 
SUBSTRATE SOLUTION ECO-FRIENDLY PRODUCT 
MLCC  (Multi-Layer Ceramic Capacitor) 
If electricity is analogous to water as a component that enables the flow of a necessary amount of current in an electronic device, the MLCC plays the role of a dam that temporarily stores the water and supplies the current to required locations. 
Power Inductor 
A core component embedded in digital devices  including smartphones, maintaining  the chip sensor voltage at a stable level.  The product line-up covers all  sorts of power inductors-stacking type, coil former type and thin film type, etc. 
Component Solution 
ABOUT OUR COMPANY 
Common Mode Filter 
A component to remove only noise by  distinguishing normal signals and noise in data  transmission in high-speed communications  utilized by smartphones,  laptops and smart TVs, etc. 
Chip Resistor 
A chip resistor limits DC or AC. This feature  can be used to lower the voltage in an  electronic circuit or to ensure a consistent  flow of current. 
A component with the functions of removing  noise and charging discharging of electric  charges in the form of a tantal metal-based  capacitor, widely used in electronic devices. 
Module Solution 
Camera Module 
Components that provide still image and video recording functions  in smartphones, tablet PCs and other electronic devices and  maximize user convenience by offering various features including  high resolution, micro-size auto focus,  and image stabilization. 
PRODUCTS   APPLICATIONS 
Wifi Module 
NFC modules providing wireless Internet or  wireless communication among devices including  smartphones, tablets, PCs and home appliances. Providing high-density small-scale module  solutions by applying small thin-type  components and small packaging techniques. 
Substrate Solution 
FCBGA(Flip Chip Ball Grid Array) 
A component that acts as a PCB for PKG that plays a role  in electrically physically connecting a PC s motherboard  with a semiconductor. Its strengths include fast  signaling and  noise reduction. 
FCCSP(Flip Chip Chip Scale Package) 
A component used to send electrical signals and of which board  is connected to a semiconductor chip by means of ball bumps  instead of the wire bonding method. 
HDI(High Density Interconnection) 
A high-density circuit board that sends electrical signals among  components of electronic devices (including smartphones,  tablet PCs, laptops, digital cameras, etc.) 
ABOUT OUR COMPANY 
RFPCB  (Rigid-Flex Printed Circuit Boards) 
A board composed of a rigid board and a flexible  one where a 3-dimensional circuit connection is possible due to the flection in the flex segment.  Small-size and light-weight devices can be  produced using 3-dimensional wiring in different  forms. 
Camera Modules 
High-performance modules are used in currently available  smartphone cameras equipped with functions including image  stabilization, high resolution and low-light shooting. A greater priority has  been placed on low-power solutions that minimize battery consumption  amid the problem of battery replacement since embedded  batteries are used for design aesthetics, waterproofing,  and other purposes. Against this backdrop,  Samsung Electro-Mechanics developed camera module products, which have improved power consumption by 15% and  reduced size by 30% compared to previous ones while maintaining various  functions required by utilizing software and hardware competencies.  These modules have been supplied to various smartphone manufacturers.  Samsung Electro-Mechanics plans to continuously expand  its camera module business driven by differentiated competitiveness  in terms of high efficiency compared to its competitors. 
Eco-Friendly Product 
PRODUCTS   APPLICATIONS 
Communication Modules 
There is a heightened interest in 5G (fifth generation)  components that enable high-speed, real-time data  transfer with enhanced capacity focusing on establishing  standards, securing technologies,  and commercialization amid IT upscaling.  Competition for the commercialization of 5G  communications will intensify with 5G  demonstrations during the PyeongChang 2018 Olympic  Winter Games. Samsung Electro-Mechanics has added  near far field communication-based  line-ups featuring high-efficiency, high-performance,  and ultra-small components and modules, while securing  core technologies for 5G communication modules.  We are also working on collaborating with platform  makers to enter new markets and expand our market  share in existing ones. 
Technological convergence and sophistication  
has brought IT not only to communications,  
but to a range of industrial sectors, including  
finance and automobiles. This trend is likely  
to intensify as new technologies, such as  
artificial intelligence (AI) and 5G, come out of  
the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Therefore,  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has focused its  
business activities on three main technologies  
  materials, multi-layer thin film molding and  
high-frequency circuit design   to become  
the world s best component manufacturer and  
a leader in the electronic component industry  
of the future. 
Operating profit 
Business  Vision 
KRW1,014.9billion 
Our core businesses cover three main areas:  
Component Solutions, Module Solutions and  
Substrate Solutions. We have four domestic  
business sites located in Suwon, Busan,  
Sejong, and Ulsan. The Suwon site is where  
we run our R D, marketing and support  
operations. The Busan and Sejong sites  
serve as principal domestic manufacturing  
bases and mainly produce high value-added  
products, including next-generation integrated  
circuit packages and passive components.  
The Ulsan site serves as the basis for the  
procurement of key raw materials. Overseas,  
there are six production sites in four countries:  
China (Tianjin, Gaoxin, Kunshan), Thailand, the  
Philippines and Vietnam. There are also five  
primary sales offices in the Americas, Europe,  
Southeast Asia, China and Japan. Together,  
these sites make up our global network.  
ABOUT OUR COMPANY 
KRW 8,000.2 billion 
Component Solution  Module Solution   Substrate Solution  
In 2018, Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
recorded annual sales of KRW 8,000.2 billion,  
with an operating profit of KRW 1,014.9  
billion. Based on the three key technologies  
mentioned above, we will look to advance  
our business and prepare for the future to  
make Samsung Electro-Mechanics a global  
technological leader in the component  
Technological convergence and sophistication has brought  
IT not only to communications, but to a range of  
industrial sectors, including finance and automobiles.  
This trend is likely to intensify as new technologies,  
such as Artificial Intelligence(AI) and 5G,  
come out of the Fourth Industrial Revolution.  
The component business refers to passive  
electronic components, with the primary  
products being multi-layer ceramic capacitors  
(MLCC), inductors and chip resistors. Passive  
electronic components are essential parts that  
are needed in a variety of areas, from smart IT  
and household appliances to electronic devices  
in cars and medical devices. The component  
business also includes material and device  
production, built on the fundamentals of raw  
materials, production technology and facilities  
technology. That means the component  
business requires know-how in core  
production technologies, such as distribution,  
molding, printing, laminating and plastics, as  
well as source material technologies, such as  
dielectrics, magnets and conductive pastes. It  
is a business with high barriers to entry.  
Growth in high-performance devices such  
as smartphones, tablet PCs and smart  
TVs is increasing demand for ultra-small  
components. The same is true in the auto  
industry, where demand is rising on the use  
of electronic devices to make driving more  
convenient and to help improve automotive  
safety and fuel efficiency. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has gained a  
competitive edge in the market by increasing  
its development speed and its manufacturing  
competitiveness. This was made possible  
by improvements to our competitiveness  
in subminiature high-capacity material  
technology and core production technologies  
such as molding, printing, laminating  
and plastics. Furthermore, by improving  
productivity and increasing inter-product  
synergy, we aim to strengthen our market  
position. We are also expanding our line-up of  
inductor products, such as power inductors, to  
 Component Solution Business  
The module business consists of products  
such as camera modules and communication  
modules. The backbone of the business is  
optical technology, circuit design technology  
and packaging production technology. As  
an applied products business, it has to  
ceaselessly create SET-leading solutions  
through new passive components and material  
convergence, and so it is an intensively  
technological industry where the importance  
of digital controls and software technologies is  
becoming ever clearer. 
The application for camera modules is in  
personal mobile devices such as smartphones,  
but this is expanding to include automobiles,  
smart home appliances, security solutions and  
the Internet of Things (IoT). Of particular note  
is the adoption of multi-camera such as dual  
and triple camera and the enhancement in  
the functions of camera modules. This, along  
with the advancement of other features such  
actively meet the demands of our customers.  
Another way in which we are meeting  
customer needs is with products such as  
the ultra-small MLCC with 0402 (0.4mm  
0.2mm) dimensions. We continue to develop  
and supply ultra-high capacity products based  
on our material and production technologies.  
To lead the market moving forward, we will  
continue to diversify our line-up through the  
development of new products  we will raise  
our global market share by responding to  
customers in both advanced and emerging  
markets in a balanced way  and we will secure  
our profitability. Moreover, by increasing  
MLCC development, we will expand our share  
in growth markets such as automobiles and  
industrial components. 
 Module Solution Business 
VISION AND STRATEGY 
as lenses and actuators, has led the market to  
In the area of communication modules, we  
expect the 5G era to see growth in ultra- 
high frequency response, low-loss modules.  
Furthermore, with the emergence of IoT,  
we expect the market for Machine-to- 
Machine (M2M) communication modules to  
flourish, and we foresee an influx of products  
and services that utilize communication  
technologies among devices of various  
identities. 
At Samsung Electro-Mechanics, we combine  
our optical lens designs, circuit designs,  
packaging, and software technology with  
our material capacity to provide a wide  
range of modules and solutions to meet  
our customers  needs, including cameras  
and wireless communication modules. As  
for camera modules, we are able to offer  
optimal solutions thanks to our lens designs  
and die and mold technology, as well as our  
ability to manufacture high-precision, high- 
performance actuators used for autofocus  
and image stabilization. We also offer the  
relevant software technology. Based on these  
advantages, the company is focusing on  
expanding the camera module business into  
other areas, such as automobiles. 
We are also embedding our core technologies,  
such as circuit design, into our communication  
module business, and pursuing advances in  
low-loss, high-heat protection, subminiature  
and composite modules using our unique  
package technology. In addition, we are  
promoting technological convergence in  
various areas of application by utilizing our  
own technological competencies, such as  
passive electronic components, magnetic  
materials and circuit boards.  
With a focus on growth markets, we will  
enhance the line-up of our high-performance  
products and develop new ones with  
differentiated features, all as we continue to  
provide customized marketing and technical  
support. We will also work tirelessly to  
improve our competitiveness through cost  
reductions, and to strengthen our market  
The substrate business refers to the business  
of printed circuit boards. They are components  
that electrically connect semiconductors and  
electronic components and that mechanically  
support circuit connections. Major products  
include semiconductor package circuit boards  
and high-density multi-layer boards. They  
are needed in almost all industries, from IT  
and home appliances to automobiles, aircraft  
and ships. The upstream business is the  
electronics industry, including smartphones  
and computers. The downstream business is  
the materials industry, such as ink and boards,  
and the facility industry, such as plating,  
printing and exposure. Therefore, there is a  
close relationship between the downstream  
and upstream businesses, and the resulting  
ripple effects are significant. Moreover,  
the equipment industry requires massive  
investment and multiple technologies, such  
as chemical, electrical and mechanical  
processing, thus raising the barriers to entry. 
As more and more high-end smartphones  
require higher density components, we  
are seeing leading companies change their  
PCB designs to adapt to next-generation  
technologies, and therefore we expect an  
expansion of high-value products. 
Enhance existing  businesses 
 Substrate Solution Business 
Take  the industry lead  and focus on  high-value  business  
Secure dominant  position in the SiP  market 
By advancing  in materials,  take early lead in  miniaturization and  convergence SiP 
Five Major Strategies 
Reorganize  business portfolios  based on  new products and  business 
Customer  Application  Diversification 
Furthermore, emerging markets such as  
India, South America and Africa, have growth  
rates higher than the global average and are  
experiencing rapid industrialization. Through  
this increasing demand in emerging markets,  
we expect the upstream business to flourish,  
including entry-level smartphones, TV and  
laptops, and we expect this to lead to the  
growth of the PCB industry. 
As IT devices become faster and lighter,  
the demand for thinner and smaller higher- 
density multi-layer boards and semiconductor  
package boards is continuing to rise. 
Moreover, as demand  
rises for wearable  
foldable devices,  
we also expect  
greater demand for  
Rigid-Flexible PCBs  
ABOUT OUR COMPANY 
Increase  resource efficiency  indicators  including investment,  sales per capita, etc. 
Optimize  management  resources 
Substrate Solutions Component Solutions 
Establish a new  corporate culture 
Embody change,  innovation and  challenges 
Sales by Business Division 
(Consolidated basis, unit: KRW 100 million) 
 Exports   Domestic Demand 
competition between the major businesses  
is becoming fiercer. To strengthen our lead  
in the market, we have been responding to  
demand for faster and smaller IT devices by  
working continuously to make thinner and  
lighter semiconductor package boards and  
high-density multi-layer boards. 
Building on our foundation of material and  
facility technologies, we will continue striving  
to meet customer demands with our unique  
technological capabilities, such as our bend- 
prevention technology for thinner PCBs and  
fine line implementation technologies. 
Module Solutions 
With a foundation of accumulated  
material control technologies,  
production technologies, product  
technologies, and a stable supply  
capacity, Samsung Electro- 
Mechanics has been able to  
maintain close partnerships  
with its customers. We are also  
using our outstanding research  
and development capabilities  
to continue developing new  
technologies and products, such  
as micro-circuit patterns and  
embedding. 
With smartphone growth slowing  
down in the developed markets,  
To increase transparency in our accounting  
data and provide trustworthy information to  
interested parties, we operate an internal audit  
management system, following rules laid out  
in the internal audit management regulations  
and the internal audit management system  
guidelines.  
Through this system, we hold periodic  
evaluations (monthly, quarterly and annually),  
appraising the entire company s activities and  
the individual processes and activities of our  
global network. 
 Internal Accounting Management  
Risk Management 
We evaluate the activities and individual  
processes of our headquarters and overseas  
branches (including business departments,  
branches, staff, etc.), looking at 12 areas of  
business (human resources, sales, operations,  
Confirmation 
Evaluation Reviewer Group Leader Group Leader Group Leader 
RISK MANAGEMENT 
Overall Management 
Managers by Group International Accounting  Coordinator Business Support Group Leader Group Leader 
Final Confirmation 
Primary Confirmation 
Organizational Structure and Roles 
Evaluator Evaluator Evaluator Evaluator 
Final Approval President of Manufacturing Plant Chief of   Business Unit Team Leader 
Primary Approval - Business Support Team Leader - 
Overseas Office Business Unit STAFF 
Finance and Accounting Team Leader 
Internal Accounting Manager(CFO) 
To ensure accuracy and procedural compliance  
in the evaluations, a third party assessment  
is carried out on the quarterly evaluations  
made by the head office, and in the case of  
overseas branches, there is an inspection of  
operating conditions. 
For the purpose of transparency of accounting data  
and trustworthiness of the information disclosed to  
our stakeholders, Samsung Electro-Mechanics operates  
under an internal audit management system. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics manages  
compliance risk to prevent employees from  
violating rules and regulations in their duties.  
To prevent illegal practices, we check the  
status of relevant regulations on a regular  
basis, including their establishment and  
revision, assess risks in each sector, devise  
response measures and then provide risk  
guidelines to our employees. 
 Compliance Risk 
   Review transactions with business partners amid the revision   of the Fair Transactions in Subcontracting Act 
   Inspect internal transactions according to strengthened regulations   on illegal support activities between affiliates 
   Provide training programs and conduct inspections in accordance with the   enactment of the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act (the  Graft Act  of Korea) 
  Reinforce the preliminary review process for internal transactions 
   Establish a continual risk monitoring system to prevent violations of   the Fair Transactions in Subcontracting Act 
Preemptive responses in preparation for strengthened regulations 
Establishment of a continual monitoring system 
Compliance Risk Mitigation 
Outline and Measures 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics contributes  
to sustainable growth by ensuring a stable  
supply of products and services to customers  
based on continuity of production. We have  
established business continuity management  
plans in case of business suspension due to  
unexpected incidents.  
 Business Continuity Management  
ABOUT OUR COMPANY 
Major Activities 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has established  
measures for business continuity management  
and formed operational units to fulfill relevant  
roles and responsibilities. We analyze key  
factors that may affect production activities  
in case of unforeseen incidents by identifying  
conditions for organizational activities through  
research on internal and external stakeholder  
issues, environmental analysis and business  
impact analysis. 
In 2012, Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
acquired the BS 25999 certification related to  
business continuity management for adopting  
a system that enables us to restore our core  
businesses in the shortest time possible.  
The ISO 22301 certification has been extended  
to our domestic business sites from 2013.  
Domestic sites are verified for their suitability  
through regular annual assessments, and  
we are making efforts to further develop the  
company s business continuity management  
Certification on business continuity  management 
We conduct risk analysis on possible incidents  
that may disrupt each core task and establish  
diverse strategies accordingly. We establish  
business continuity procedures to return to  
normal production activities after incidents  
based on relevant priorities. We conduct  
internal and external reviews each year to  
check whether such activities are carried out  
accordingly and are making efforts to help  
employees understand the business continuity  
management system and enhance their  
execution capabilities by providing education  
and training programs on a regular basis. 
Samsung Electron-Mechanics was selected  
as a business subject to the allocation of  
emission permits according to the Emissions  
Trading Scheme (ETS) in 2015 and has been  
participating in the scheme since then. We  
report to the Audit Committee after reporting  
to the CEO once a year on matters related to  
GHG emissions reductions and third-party  
verification results via the internal control  
evaluation system. 
We put in place a decision-making process to  
respond to the ETS by operating the Climate  
Strategy Committee and share information  
and opinions on emissions trading with the  
financial, legal and other related departments. 
We develop an emission database, operate  
a monitoring system on a continual basis,  
and regularly analyze emission trends as  
well. Samsung Electro-Mechanics projects  
emissions volumes and their intensity by  
identifying production lines to be expanded,  
production increase estimates, and GHG  
emission trends over the past 3 years as a  
company-wide energy management policy  
with regard to GHG reduction activities amid  
strengthened domestic regulations on the  
environment. The company also establishes  
and implements GHG reduction plans to  
achieve its annual targets. 
 Financial Impacts of Climate Change 
We prescribe information security regulations  
and implementation guidelines to protect the  
critical information and assets of Samsung  
Electro-Mechanics and operate physical and  
technical protection measures to abide by  
them. This, along with periodic inspections  
and improvement activities, helps us to  
minimize security risks. 
Organizational System 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics formed exclusive  
teams for the purpose of information  
protection, and appointed executives to  
oversee security to protect corporate assets  
and information. The teams prescribe  
corporate security policies and reflect legal,  
management environment and technological  
changes related to information security at  
home and abroad into security policies, and  
implement related policies, and manage risks  
in each sector. The company also conducts  
inspections on individual sites, provides  
consulting services to enhance security  
at overseas sites, and continues to carry  
out activities to discover and improve on  
weaknesses. 
Information Asset Protection 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics places CCTVs  
and security staff on the outskirts of plants  
and major facilities and access to such places  
is limited to authorized personnel to protect  
the company s information assets, employees  
and facilities. The company also prepares for  
all types of physical threats including natural  
disasters with measures such as facility  
protection and crime prevention. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics allocates and  
manages multiple security systems to ensure  
the technical protection of systems and  
networks as well as the physical security  
infrastructure to protect core technologies  
and information assets. We guard against  
the hacking of industrial secrets and leakage  
incidents by putting in place enterprise-wide  
information protection management systems. 
 Information Security 
RISK MANAGEMENT 
We have been providing over one-hour of  
training a year targeting employees and  
business partners, aiming to prevent security  
incidents and raise the sense of security.  
We also sign Non-Disclosure Agreements  
(NDAs) with external parties depending  
on the nature of business. In addition, we  
are marking efforts to raise the sense of  
security enjoyed by our employees through  
internal broadcasting and diverse promotional  
materials. 
For overseas subsidiaries, training focuses on  
the code of conduct for information protection  
for overseas employees to the same level  
of those provided to workers in Korea.  
Employees sign a  Pledge of Information  
Protection inclusive of Business Secrets  and  
a  Consent Form for the Collection and Use  
of Personal Information  each year. In this  
way, measures to protect business secrets  
and personal information are implemented  
on a continual basis. Training for security  
staff is provided on a regular basis to prevent  
human rights issues in the course of security  
screening. 
Training on Information Protection 
(coverage: domestic basis, unit: persons) 
2016 2017 2018 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has established  
a code of conduct in compliance management  
and conducts a compliance program in order  
to observe the management philosophy,  
core values, and management principles  
of Samsung. We discover compliance risks  
through site monitoring to check regulatory  
compliance in general. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has formed  
and operates a system for compliance  
action teams to ensure systematic and  
effective compliance management. The  
 Compliance Committee , as the highest unit  
in the compliance organizational structure,  
provides directions and decides on major  
compliance items after receiving reports on  
key management activities. 
A designated Compliance Team develops and  
operates compliance programs to support  
the compliance activities of each functional  
team. Samsung Electro-Mechanics appointed  
CP supervisors in charge of overseeing  
compliance activities in each functional team  
at home and abroad encompassing staff,  
business units, overseas branches, and CP  
 Compliance Policy 
  Compliance Action Team  Operation 
Compliance Management 
Compliance Checks 
With a continual supervision and monitoring  
system, Samsung Electro-Mechanics is  
committed to discovering potential risks in   
leaders in charge of practical tasks so that all  
teams can actively respond to issues when  
they occur. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics reports the  
outcomes of compliance activities of the  
previous year and compliance plan for the  
current year at meetings of the board of  
directors with attendance by both internal and  
outside directors in accordance with Article  
542-13 of the Commercial Act, stipulating  
that compliance officers shall verify whether  
the compliance guidelines are complied with  
and shall report the outcomes thereof to the  
board of directors.  
 Major Compliance Activities 
ABOUT OUR COMPANY 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: times) 
Compliance Checks 
advance and looking for improvements to the  
process. From 2016 to 2018, 23 compliance  
checks were conducted across diverse  
categories including fair trade, business  
secrets, internal subcontracting, and human  
rights and labor. Our compliance checks are  
also conducted at overseas subsidiaries and  
sales offices, as well as at domestic sites. 
Issues found during compliance checks are  
discussed with related departments to come  
up with response measures, and the results of  
any improvements are reported to executives.  
The CEOs and related departments frequently  
discuss actions taken for improvement and  
any delays through a follow-up system. 
Voluntary Compliance Activities 
All employees of Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
take part in the Compliance Action Pledge  
to reaffirm their commitment to compliance  
measures.  
Employees participate in compliance training  
programs, compliance action seminars and  
conduct self-inspections to enhance their  
compliance capabilities. The company has  
developed a quantitative measurement  
system of such activities so that the results  
can be reflected in the performance evaluation  
of the executives concerned. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics promotes the  
importance of compliance management by  
communicating major compliance issues  
including corporate compliance activities with  
stakeholders, through diverse communication  
channels such as the publication of the  
Compliance Letter, organization of the  
Compliance Action Forum and internal  
broadcasting. Moreover, a reexamination of  
business relationships that violate compliance  
as well as of business partners and contractual  
counterparties is conducted. As such, we  
recommend all companies transacting with us  
take part in our efforts to promote compliance  
management. 
Compliance Training 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics conducts  
compliance training for all employees at least  
once per year. The training touches upon  
compliance issues related to fair trade, anti- 
corruption and anti-infringement of business  
secrets, which are to be complied with as  
per major risks related to Samsung Electro- 
Mechanics.  
Job competency training for each department  
including sales, procurement and HR is  
underway with specialized training content  
used for in-depth training. 
   Prohibiting unfair joint actions     Prohibiting unfair internal trading     Prohibiting unfair subcontracting 
     Prohibiting the infringement of  business secrets      Prohibiting the illegal use of software 
Intellectual Property Environment   Safety Others 
Fair Trade HR Ethics 
Compliance Management Items 
    Equality in employment     Compliance with work standards      Preventing corruption  (prohibiting bribery) 
     Complying with environmental   and safety regulations      Complying with disclosure   the board of directors  regulations    Prohibiting internal trading    Complying with customs regulations 
CPMS Operation 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics set up  
a Compliance Program Management System  
to regularly post new compliance objectives  
and goals, related operating performance,  
regulations and guidance, a reference  
book and guidelines, as well as distribute  
such information on compliance issues to  
employees.  Compliance  is positioned on  
the upper part of Knox Portal, the company s  
intranet system, to maximize accessibility.  
Furthermore, the portal is equipped with  
functions to write in inquiries, analyze prior  
discussions, and document autonomous  
compliance activities to support voluntary  
compliance activities by employees. 
An online and offline whistleblowing system  
has been put in place to prevent non- 
compliance on a 24 7 basis. The guidelines  
prescribe provisions whereby the identification  
of whistleblowers is protected and they are  
not subject to any disadvantages in terms of  
promotions resulting from whistleblowing.  
In principle, we not only guarantee the  
anonymity of whistleblowers but also prohibit  
any disadvantages in future promotions  
due to whistleblowing in order to facilitate  
the whistleblowing system. The system is  
available both online and offline, preventing  
non-compliance at all times. 
    Suggest directions based on  monitoring results and conduct  follow-up management 
 Compliance Program     Consulting and monitoring by  dedicated teams for each job  type 
COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT 
Monitoring 
Risk  Sensing     Early   Prevention 
Identification of Amended Regulations  and Provision of Guidelines 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has a list of laws  
and regulations related to the company and  
regularly updates the status of their revision  
or amendment. When revised or amended  
regulations are found, they are immediately  
forwarded to the related departments or  
employees.  
We are constantly analyzing the status  
of revisions and amendments of related  
regulations at home and abroad by checking  
on newsletters and e-mail notices from  
major law firms. Based on this, we develop  
guidelines on related laws for employees  
to comply with and which include specific  
work processes and a code of conduct so  
that employees do not violate laws. The  
updated guidelines are regularly posted on the  
Compliance Program Management System  
(CPMS) so employees can easily access them  
via CPMS whenever needed. 
As of 2018, Samsung Electro-Mechanics has  
never received penalties or other disciplinary  
sanctions for legal violations of fair trade laws.  
There are currently no alleged violations or  
pending lawsuits against the company as well.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics will continue to  
prioritize compliance management to grow  
and develop into a leading company that is  
trusted and respected by society by being  
true to its management principles in the areas  
of legal and ethical compliance. 
 Disciplinary Sanctions 
Assessment    Follow-up  Management 
    Preemptive inspection of newly passed  and amended laws 
    Provide a process and guidelines for risk  prevention 
    Assess the level of compliance  and provide rewards 
    Establish recurrence prevention  measures and impose  disciplinary sanctions 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics promotes  
sustainable management to create value for  
stakeholders. All departments of Samsung  
Electro-Mechanics are systematically  
managed and operated to promote economic,  
social, and environmental sustainability  
and the company makes efforts to cater to  
stakeholder demands, centering on a task  
force devoted to ensuring sustainability.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics strives  
to incorporate comprehensive global  
management trends that can serve as a  
pillar of the company s decision-making  
process by linking the environment, social,  
and governance (ESG) factors with existing  
management activities and strategies. We will  
work hard to be a company that embraces a  
higher level of corporate social responsibilities. 
Sustainability Management 
Environment, Safety, Health Business Vision Supply Chain Reputation Management 
Corporate Planning 
Labor, Human Rights 
HR Support 
Procurement Planning 
Partner Collaboration 
Business Partner Evaluation Ethics Compliance Investor Employee Competency 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics runs a task  
force on sustainability to manage various  
risks related to sustainability management  
effectively and efficiently. We provide  
training programs each year on the theme of  
sustainability management to enhance the  
competency of the task force and remain  
sensitive to global trends. 
  Sustainability Management  Organizational Structure 
Communication 
ABOUT OUR COMPANY 
Auditing IR 
Organization Chart 
Human Resource Team 
President and CEO 
Financial Performance 
Supervision 
Accounting Communication General Affairs Safety  Environment 
Compliance HR Development 
Corporate Governance 
Procurement Team, Finance   Accounting Team,   Planning Team, Safety Environment Team 
The task force on sustainability responds to the  
sustainability management assessment made  
by global investment evaluation agencies and  
customers, publishes sustainability reports,  
and carries out other activities related to  
sustainability management. 
27 Issues Selected 
Assistant Administrator 
Responding to future issues 
Social Contribution 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics actively collects  
diverse opinions from different stakeholders by  
using a separate point of contact department  
for each type of stakeholder and is making  
efforts to satisfy stakeholders  right to know  
by continuing to increase both the quality and  
quantity of information made available via its  
homepage and sustainability reports.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has selected 27  
issues encompassing issues related to the  
economy, environment, and society in order  
to identify current business opportunities and  
risks and respond to future issues. Externally,  
we have studied the Global Reporting  
Initiative (GRI) standards, topics in technology  
and communications suggested by the  
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  
(SASB), and investor expectations. Internally,  
we have referred to relevant agenda items at  
BOD meetings, in internal broadcasting, and  
via other channels. 
 Stakeholder Communication 
 Materiality Analysis 
We conducted surveys of materiality for key  
stakeholders including investors, customers,  
business partners, local communities,  
shareholders, the government, and employees  
to determine priorities among the selected  
27 topics. The results of the surveys were  
reflected in the section on  stakeholders  level  
of interest  in the materiality matrix. 
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 
Realization of  Corporate Social  Responsibility 
Stakeholder Communication 
Government 
Shareholders Media 
Communities Investor 
Economic Sustainability 
This report details the activities and outcomes  
of Samsung Electro-Mechanics as they relate  
to 27 issues in 2018. We strive to create  
the results via sustainability management  
based on continued discussions with related  
departments by considering the importance of  
the topics from a business perspective as well  
as from the vantage point of stakeholders   
interests. We also plan to establish a  
sustainability management system to reflect  
such key issues in the business decision- 
making process. 
Business partners 
Employees  
Ethical Management 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has achieved  
consistent and sound business performance  
results and grown into a global leader in  
the industry of electronic components.  
Accordingly, various stakeholders including  
customers, shareholders, and employees  
have high expectations and demand us to  
comply with diverse global standards. Today,  
ethics have become important to determine  
the survival and growth of a company and  
are considered an essential condition for  
sustainable development. Hence, we have  
adopted ethical management as a basis for  
value judgment in all our business activities. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has established  
5 management principles, 15 detailed rules,  
and 42 codes of conduct. The 5 principles  
include  We comply with laws and ethical  
standards ,  We maintain a clean organizational  
culture ,  We respect customers,   
shareholders and employees ,  We care for  
the environment, health, and safety ,   
 We are a socially responsible corporate  
citizen . Based on the 5 principles, we are  
engaged in various activities such as ethical  
training for employees and business partners,  
operation of a whistleblowing system for those  
witness to unethical behaviors at work, and  
corruption prevention training. We adopted  
items related to ethical behaviors to evaluate  
the performance of executives, providing a  
basis for expanding a corporate culture that  
is transparent and trusted by stakeholders.  
We are making concerted efforts to prevent  
violations of ethical management principles  
and plan to put in place a monitoring system  
Product Stewardship 
With increasing environmental regulations  
both at home and abroad such as EU RoHS  
and REACH SVHC, our business partners  
are implementing tougher restrictions on the  
management of hazardous materials contained  
in products. More and more companies are  
faced with difficult situations including market  
pullback, a tarnished image, sales declines,  
penalties from the government, and criminal  
punishment due to the failure to manage  
hazardous materials within their products.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has yet to suffer  
 Top 3 Topics 
Top Topics by Sector 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics. 
As regulations on 4 types of phthalate (BBP,  
DBP, DEHP, DIBP) in the EU RoHS will take  
effect from July 2019, Submission of the  
detailed analysis report was made mandatory  
from May 2018, and voluntarily reduce the  
use of 4 types of phthalate (DINP, DIDP,  
DnOP, DnHP) by 2020 in order to satisfy other  
regulations. 
from such problems. Considering the far- 
reaching impact of the issue, however, many  
stakeholders demand that we take this issue  
seriously. Hence, we meet and exceed  
regulatory standards at the upper level of  
statutory standards and market demands for  
hazardous materials within our products. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics operates a  
hazardous material management system in  
order to respond to these risks efficiently. We  
have established a database of information on  
chemical materials within all raw materials at  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics and have regular  
meetings with persons in charge of product  
environmental impact in related departments  
to monitor hazardous material regulations at  
home and abroad. Also, we provide regular  
training to persons responsible for product  
environmental impact at least twice each year  
and investigate policies and regulations on the  
management of hazardous materials for major  
customers at least once a year, which are  
reflected in the policies adopted by   
Ensure expected value for  stakeholders based on mid- and  long-term development 
1.  Ethical   management 2.  Management   performance 3. Business risks 
Environment Society Economy 
ABOUT OUR COMPANY 
Establish an environmental  management system aiming for  global environmental protection 
1.  Product   stewardship 2.  Investment in  environmental  facilities 3. Climate change 
Safe Sites 
Considering that accidents in manufacturing  
processes caused by human errors are  
harshly criticized by the public and there is an  
increasing interest in safety issues globally,  
industrial disasters may have a negative effect  
on business reputation and stock market value  
of a company. Furthermore, business partners  
are asking us to provide them with information  
on the number and rate of on-site disasters  
and global evaluation agencies also monitor  
such data. Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
puts heavy emphasis on the prevention and  
management of industrial disasters as they  
affect business expansion and the continuity  
of existing business relationships. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics conducts risk  
assessments through the Occupational Health  
and Safety Management System (OHSAS  
18001) to ensure no accidents occur at  
manufacturing sites. The Industrial Safety  
and Health Committee is convened every  
quarter to handle safety-related agenda items  
by establishing plans to prevent industrial  
disasters and incorporating measures to  
prevent their recurrence. We are engaged in  
various activities such as the identification  
of potential risks, evaluation of working  
environments, and assessment of safety  
culture to create safe work sites. 
Issues related to industrial disasters are  
reflected in the performance evaluation of  
executives to prevent industrial accidents at  
sites. Samsung Electro-Mechanics plans to  
guarantee the safety of all employees and  
thereby achieve solid growth by 2020. 
Create a better future through  the joint efforts of business and  society 
1. Safe sites 2.  Protections for  human rights 3.  Human resource  development 
Discovery Process for Matrial Topics 
Stakeholders  interest   
  Ethical management 
   Management performance 
  Business risks 
   Customer satisfaction  
 Customers and business partners  Employees  Environment  Shareholders  Communities Business importance   
management 
Environment Society Economy 
   Media research     Review global ESG standards      Discovering internal   management issues 
  Industrial leadership 
  Governance 
  Shareholders  rights 
  Tax payment strategies 
  Climate change 
  Sustainable resource use 
  Product stewardship 
   Reducing environmental  
Identification 
   Grouping issues 
   Designating stakeholder groups 
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 
   Final verification 
   Reporting application 
Materiality Matrix 
  Water resources 
  Biodiversity 
   Investment in  
STEP 5 STEP 4 
environmental facilities 
Prioritization 
   Analyzing the stakeholder  questionnaire and results 
  Quantifying the Issues 
   Welfare benefits of employees 
  Establish safe sites 
  Protections for human rights 
  Human resource development 
  Supply CSR Risks 
   Improvement of   
labor-management relations 
   Selecting Top 3 Topics 
   Selecting issues to be reported 
Key Issues 
  Win-win partnership 
   Communication in the supply chain 
  Securing diversity in employees 
  Social contribution 
  Safety and health in communities 
  Facilitation of the local economy 
and win-win growth based on trust are the major cornerstones that underlie Samsung Electro-Mechanics.  
Value creation through customer satisfaction with the creation of a future-oriented corporate ecosystem  
take the lead in spreading the culture of win-win growth, while strengthening internal competencies by  
through the establishment of a mutually horizontal cooperation network based on mutual trust to  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics strives to become a leading global company enhancing the  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics reinforces its strategic partnership with business partners  
developing new products and new quality management techniques in order to lead the  
win-win growth of business partners and achieving sustainable growth. 
Customers and Business Partners 
global market with quality competitiveness. 
Supplier Responsibility 
Customer and Quality 
Shared Growth 
Supply Chain 
Adhering to the quality management policy  
of Samsung Electro-Mechanics to create  
customer value by ensuring the highest  
quality (amended in 2015), we  
have established 3 codes of  
conduct including customer- 
centered thinking (examine  
problems from the perspective of  
customers), sticking to the basics  
(thoroughly comply with Rules  
and Processes), and pursuit of  
innovation (improve the quality of  
warehousing materials through the  
participation of all members) with  
all employees engaged in  quality  
first management  activities. 
Early discovery of potential  
problems that are inherent in  
existing products or that might occur in the  
production of new products is conducted  
through on-site analysis, so that we can  
ensure proactive and preemptive responses  
for quality improvement. We use the Plan- 
Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle when quality  
issues arise to make continued  
improvements and operate a  
closed loop process to devise  
fundamental solutions so that  
the same issues do not recur.  
As such, specific man-agement  
measures are put in place to  
prevent the occurrence of the  
same causes, block the spread  
of issues and take follow-up  
action. Such efforts have helped  
to gradually reduce customer  
complaints. 
Each business unit of   
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has a  
dedicated quality assurance team,  
who audit all production activities  
to see if they are complying with  
  Creation of Customer Value with  the Highest Quality 
We increase our brand value by inculcating a quality management culture at sites and  intensifying internal quality competitiveness 
CUSTOMER AND QUALITY 
 I believe that the company s camera module  
technology is superior to other companies .  
Xiomai s R D Division trusts Samsung Electro-Mechanics.  
Sales agents of the company have provided  
prompt responses even to abrupt requests for urgent  
delivery or on other issues. I think this responsiveness is  
part of the company s outstanding competitiveness  
and strength as well  
LIUDI Purchasing Director, Xiaomi 
    Enhancing roles of development  quality 
    Strengthening process   verification in each stage 
   Identifying potential risks of   new technology and   strengthening verification of  simulations 
Establishing site-based quality assurance culture   Complying with Rule   Process 
Process Quality Stabilization Sophistication of Quality System 
Enhancement of development quality Process quality improvement Quality assurance system improvement 
agreed rules and processes based on the ISO  
quality system. 
Our specialized workforce conducts  
inspections based on the Man, Machine,  
Material, Method, Measurement, and  
Environment (5M 1E) method, which are  
recognized as the major causes for defects at  
all sites.  
Global World Top Quality 
CUSTOMER AND BUSINESS PARTNERS 
   Assuring in-process quality 
    Expanding the number of   management targets 
   Improving processes via   measurement and observation 
To enhance our quality management  
system, we are working to adopt the newly  
established automotive quality management  
system, IATF 16949 (established in 2016),  
starting in 2018. Also, the Quality Innovation  
(enhancing the role of development quality,  
improvement of the development processes in  
each stage and strengthening verification, and  
identifying potential risks of new technology  
as well as strengthening the verification of  
simulations), process quality improvements  
   Improving the quality of   warehousing materials and  strengthening inspection   system 
  Converting to IATF46949 
   Establishing a system   connecting process systems 
Group under the Global  
Technology Center helps  
to achieve company-wide  
quality goals by frequently  
conducting inspections  
on development quality,  
component quality, process  
quality and customer quality.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
is securing global quality  
competitiveness through  
customer-oriented thinking  
and prevention of the spread  
of defective products based  
on strengthened verification  
in the development phase  
(expanding the number of management  
targets, assuring in-process quality, and  
improving the process), and improving the  
quality assurance system (establishing a  
structure to link process systems, improving  
the quality of warehousing materials and  
strengthening inspection systems by  
converting to IATF16949). 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics adopted a daily  
yield drop management system to intensify  
internal quality competitiveness. A drop in  
yield is to be immediately reported to the CEO  
along with progress reports. This helps the top  
management to be directly engaged in on-site  
improvement actions.  
Also, we analyze specific causes and devise  
improvement measures, to verify validity. As  
such, we do the utmost to enhance our quality  
competitiveness and address problems from  
the root cause. 
We conduct quality control activities on key  
elements of each process, with the heads of  
divisions directly organizing related activities.  
Likewise, we are continuously making efforts  
to ensure robust internal quality. 
  Strengthening Internal Quality   Competitiveness 
 Samsung Electro-Mechanics focuses on the substantial impact of  
sustainability on the entire value chain and integrates sustainability into  
its corporate value. We have successfully developed a culture of business  
continuity and environmental management. Our overall sustainability  
management system meets diverse international standards.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics is a company that represents  
a responsible business model in terms of supply chains.  
SS LEE Procurement General Manager, ASE corporate 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
communicates with diverse groups  
of customers without limiting itself  
to the B2B sector as it expands and  
operates various online channels to  
convey information that is prompt  
and accurate. 
We strive to convey the image of a  
global company leading the electronic  
component industry and enhance  
brand value by providing information  
related to the differentiated  
technologies and business  
competency of Samsung Electro- 
Mechanics via online channels  
including the company s website,  
Facebook, LinkedIn, etc.  
We operate a website with additional  
online marketing features and provide  
unified information on our products  
in each category to improve customer access.  
We reply promptly to all customer inquiries  
received via the company s website, providing  
customer-centered services to enhance the  
level of customer satisfaction. 
 Online Communication 
CUSTOMER AND QUALITY 
 Samsung Electro-Mechanics is  
equipped with core materials  
technologies such as powder and  
pastes and able to develop and  
produce high-end products and  
solutions responding to market changes  
and demands in advance.  
Outstanding production capabilities  
and prompt adoption of technologies,  
and a full product line-up help  
the company provide a high level of  
technologies and products that satisfy  
customers  needs in various areas  
including IT, industry, and  
electronic parts.  
TIM HUANG Purchasing Director, Quanta 
Social Networking Service 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics operates various  
social media channels including Youtube,  
LinkedIn, Facebook, blogs, and others to  
provide customized information.  
Monthly newsletters and event newsletters  
are sent to customers and members to share  
the company s updates and information  
on products. The website is composed  
of UI design and reactive design for user  
convenience and has been granted a  
certificate in web accessibility for people with  
disabilities so that all customers including the  
socially disadvantaged can access the site  
more conveniently and easily.  
In order to fulfill its social responsibilities as  
a global corporate citizen based on ethical  
management principles, Samsung Electro-  
Mechanics requires not only itself but also  
its business partners to agree on complying  
with ethical and compliance management  
standards and Corporate Social Responsibility  
(CSR) measures.  
This is to ensure compliance with global  
regulations including the eradication of  
child labor, human rights protection, anti-  
discrimination and non-use of minerals from  
conflict zones. We extend institutional support  
to withhold trade with business partners that  
violate these rules.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics seeks to realize  
the values of mutual trust and achieve  
development based on a high level of  
business ethics and a clean corporate culture. 
 Purchasing Measures 
We evaluate business partners comprehensively to establish a competitive supply chain 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: KRW 100 million) 
Cost of Raw Materials 
 Total  Local purchase 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics, as Korea s  
largest comprehensive component  
manufacturer, conducts business mostly  
driven by its 3 business units (Component  
Solutions, Module Solutions and Substrate  
Solutions). We procure raw materials worth  
KRW 3 trillion a year, which are mainly  
semi-conductors, semi-finished products,  
raw materials and medicinal products from  
about 250 business partners in 20 countries.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics continues to  
implement policies to procure products which  
are produced locally, thus contributing to the  
social development of local production sites. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics is making  
concerted efforts to upgrade its product  
competitiveness through communication  
and development cooperation with business  
partners and provides customers with the  
highest quality products.  
  Current Status of Procurement   and the Global Supply Chain 
  Development Cooperation and  Communication Channels with   Supplier 
CUSTOMER AND BUSINESS PARTNERS 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics selects business  
partners and cooperates with them based  
on transparent and fair evaluation criteria.  
Compliance management and environmental  
assessment have been designated as  
mandatory requirements when we select new  
business partners, not to mention general  
evaluations (on processes and management  
status) and quality and production evaluations.  
In particular, diverse communication channels  
are in place with business partners, and  
cooperation activities are underway with about  
20 companies a year through global sourcing  
exhibitions. 
We deliberated on 21 tasks suggested by  
business partners in 2018, selected 4 of  
them as outstanding tasks, and conducted  
joint development on them. This helped us to  
enhance the technological competitiveness  
of both Samsung Electro-Mechanics and  
its partners during the development of new  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics continues to  
listen to the VOC of its business partners.  
To this end, a communication channel open  
24x7 has been put in place on the company s  
website and its procurement system  
(MaPS). We strive to expand the scope of  
communication by actively collecting opinions  
and suggestions from our business partners. 
Southeast Asia Europe 
  Selection and Registration of   Suppliers 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: %) 
Procurement by Region 
They are also required to submit i) the  
 CSR Compliance Consent Form  covering  
compliance with the Responsible Business  
Alliance (RBA) ban on using minerals from  
conflict zones, and ii) the  Environmental  
Management Warrant  touching upon RoHS  
and REACH. These documents are translated  
into multiple languages and provided to all our  
business partners.  
We demand all of our business partners  
duly practice the 7th  Charter for Ethical  
Partners  and the code of action through the  
 Pledge of Action for Ethical and Compliance  
Management.  
Moreover, we evaluate their financial  
capabilities in a constantly changing business  
environment and select those with a rating  
higher than the threshold level.  
Prior  designation of  new models 
Comprehensive Evaluations System of Suppliers 
Evaluation  Methods Grades 8 
Collaboration  for joint  development 
Give Best  Suppliers  Awards 
items   Excellent   Good   Fair   Poor   Bad 
points total 
Business  partners with  high ratings 
Partners trading  with Samsung Electro- Mechanics for more than  year 
Raw material  suppliers 1 
Target of  Evaluation 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics conducts  
annual comprehensive evaluations of all  
business partners with whom the company  
has established business relations for more  
than 1 year. The comprehensive evaluation  
is composed of 8 critical criteria to judge if it  
is possible to continue with the partnership.  
To be specific, the 8 items included in the  
comprehensive evaluation are divided into  
categories evaluating the capabilities of  
business partners such as quality, delivery,  
transaction scale, technological competence,  
and finance, and the ones related to the  
assessment of non-financial risks including  
compliance, environment, and response  
capability.  
Business  partners with  poor ratings 
  Comprehensive Evaluations   of Suppliers 
Judge  whether to  continue  business  relationship 
Providing technical support 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
Providing  consulting  services for  compliance  and safety  environment 
In the midst of an unpredictable global  
business environment with greater  
uncertainties, risk management has become  
an essential element for companies to survive  
and secure competitiveness. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has made efforts  
to minimize financial risks by periodically  
conducting credit assessments on all business  
partners through professional credit rating  
agencies. We also conduct sophisticated  
annual comprehensive assessments of  
business partners for complete management  
of supply chain risks.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has established  
the Masterpiece of Procurement System  
(MaPS) to form a network in which the HQ  
and person in charge of each subsidiary can  
share information when risks such as natural  
disasters, legal violations, a drop in credit  
ratings, and other risks occur.  
Accordingly, we are equipped with capabilities  
to respond to and manage various risks  
effectively. Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
has entered into a Long Term Agreement  
(LTA) for its core components and conducts  
regular technical review meetings (TRMs) and  
technology exchange meetings with its core  
suppliers to seek ways to secure long-term  
and stable supply chains. In the case of parts   
with high risk of supply disruption, we are  
strengthening our supply chain by diversifying  
our suppliers and diversifying our supply  
bases, and actively responding to unexpected  
risks such as natural disasters. 
We establish operational strategies for our  
business partners based on sophisticated  
comprehensive evaluations and execute  
a two-track approach in dealing with our  
business partners. First, we implement  
strategies to motivate competent business  
partners. Second, we develop improvement  
strategies for partners with poor performance  
and determine whether to continue with the  
partnership. 
 Supply Chain Risks 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics does not use  
conflict minerals that are unethically mined  
in 10 countries including the Democratic  
Republic of Congo and adjacent conflict zones  
and lays down principles to ban the use of  
uncertified minerals (Tantalum, Tin, Tungsten,  
Gold and Cobalt) to fulfill its corporate social  
responsibilities. 
We are also making steady efforts to improve  
the environment and human rights protections  
with regard to issues such as human rights  
violations and environmental destruction  
that may arise from mineral mining activities  
by establishing a supply chain management  
system with a sense of accountability, in  
accordance with Article 1502 of the Dodd- 
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer  
Protection Act. 
Management Process for Minerals from  Conflict Zones 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics thoroughly  
investigates the entire supply chain to detect  
if minerals from conflict zones have been  
included in our products and uses minerals  
from refineries which have completed the  
Responsible Minerals Assurance Process  
(RMAP) certification. We run a business  
partner management process to provide  
customers with products that have been  
derived through a legitimate distribution  
Investigate the use  of conflict minerals    cobalt every year  and conduct on-site  due diligence 
 Conflict Minerals 
We operate a system for early detection and preemptive responses to business partner risks 
SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY 
Acceptance of the Consent Form for  Non-use of Minerals from Conflict Zones  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics indicates  
the prohibition of the use of tantalum(Ta),  
tin(Sn), tungsten(W) and gold(Au) produced  
in Congo and nearby conflict zones in  
the  CSR Compliance Consent Form for  
Business Partners  and also suggests that  
this policy could be expanded in the future.  
New business partners are requested to  
sign the compliance consent form, and the  
relevant information is collected through the  
Masterpiece of Procurement System. 
Periodic Inspections 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics conducts  
an annual survey on the status of conflict  
minerals targeting the entire supply chain.  
We identified information on the current state  
of conflict minerals used by our business  
partners and information on refineries within  
the supply chain, using the Conflict Minerals  
Reporting Template (CMRT) released by the  
Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) from  
January to March 2018. Acquiring CFSP  
certification is recommended for refineries   
CUSTOMER AND BUSINESS PARTNERS 
Conducting a survey on  the use of conflict minerals  within the supply chain 
Establishing plans to make  corrections against risks  and reporting on relate  information 
Conducting due   diligence and validation   of the survey results 
Identifying and   evaluating risks within   the supply chain 
Raising awareness   among business   partners 
Management System for Conflict Minerals 
Management System 
1) CMRT : Conflict Minerals Reporting Template 2) MaPS : Masterpiece of Procurement System 3) RMI : Responsible Minerals Initiative 
Establishing Samsung  Electro-Mechanics s  exclusive CMRT 1)   online system  (MaPS 2 : Supplier portal) 
whose place of origin is unclear or who have  
not yet acquired the CFSP certification. 
Based on our policy of non-use of minerals  
from conflict zones, we continue to encourage  
refineries without the RMAP certification  
to acquire the certification in accordance  
with OECD Due Diligence Guidelines for  
Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from  
Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. We  
also carry out activities to identify the place of  
origin for minerals. On-site inspections take  
place for business partners to help us reach  
out to those that use the RMAP certified  
minerals. This assists with the inspection of  
their conflict mineral procurement policies  
as well as their conflict mineral information  
management systems and helps them  
discover areas for improvement. 
To prevent our business partners from using  
uncertified minerals from conflict zones from  
the early stages of development, we also  
monitor conflict mineral sourcing information  
during the phase of component approval to  
check if conflict minerals are used in each  
component and the place of origin of the  
Cooperation System 
Taking part in RBA, GeSI and RMI 3) 
activities 
Training for Suppliers 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics conducts training  
each year for its business partners on conflict  
mineral policies, the conversion of refineries  
to obtain the RMAP certificate, and entry of  
refinery information to enhance the awareness  
of its partners on the issues surrounding  
conflict minerals. 
In 2018, we conducted training on our conflict  
mineral policy and guidelines for all business  
partners through the management system.  
They will be trained on not just related policies  
but also how to use the IT management  
system. We also provide support for them to  
use the system for training and daily tasks.  
RMAP Certification Cooperation System 
We take part in the  Conflict Minerals Free  
Committee  organized by the RMI co- 
established by the RBA and GeSI, and the  
Korea Electronics Association (KEA), managing  
conflict mineral risks within the supply chain  
and mulling over pragmatic countermeasures.  
Establishing a Culture of Voluntary Compliance Management 
Labor  Human Rights 
Management Policy of Suppliers 
    Best practice  benchmarking 
    Compliance   training, self- inspection 
   Revision of   evaluation criteria 
   Establishing  strategies,   certification review 
Conflict  Minerals Ethical Management 
Management Policy for Supplier  Working Environments 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics created and  
shared a compliance management checklist  
based on the Responsible Business Alliance  
(RBA) s code of conduct to improve the  
working environment of business partners.  
We operate a system for business partners to  
voluntarily practice compliance management  
through our training, diagnosis activities and  
support for improvements.  
We recommend that employees manage  
their working hours on a daily, weekly, and  
monthly basis for compliance assessment  
with suppliers, and guide the establishment  
of a control process to prevent workers from  
exceeding their overtime hours through  
statistical analysis of working hours. 
Each year, we select the targets for  
compliance inspections among our primary  
business partners by considering the  
transaction scale of the previous year,  
geological location, and issues in the past.  
   Sustainability Assessment of   Suppliers 
     Reflecting in  comprehensive  evaluation 
    Improvement  measure F up 
SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY 
Safety  Environment 
Code of Conduct 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics established the  
Code of Conduct for its business partners  
in 2017 based on the RBA Code of Conduct  
with the aim of improving their working  
environment responsibly. The Code of  
Conduct for business partners is disclosed  
through the company s website to be openly  
shared with all stakeholders. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics held a forum to  
spread the importance of labor human rights  
and compliance management to purchasing  
managers, and through this, we shared  
how social issues in the supply chain affect  
corporate value. 
Self-Evaluation Checklist  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics shares a  
checklist based on the RBA Code of Conduct  
to help its business partners identify their  
level of compliance management and to  
discover areas for improvement. As such,  
each business partner can identify areas for  
improvement in compliance management,  
while autonomously conducting self- 
evaluations.  
We provide annual training on CSR to the  
representatives and persons in charge  
of compliance management of selected  
companies, conduct on-site inspections  
related to compliance management, and  
support for improvements. 
The results of on-site inspection are managed  
by incorporating them into the comprehensive  
evaluation at the end of the year. We visit  
partners with poor records of improvement to  
support their improvement efforts for better  
risk management.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics plans to conduct  
investigations on 60 business partners each  
year in areas of human rights, ethics, safety,  
and others by 2020.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics' Partner  
Collaboration Office establishes relevant  
policies and evaluation criteria and conducts  
direct evaluations. In addition, we participate in  
training related to sustainability management  
once a year. 
Compliance Training Support 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics provides training  
to executive managers of business partners  
through periodic forums for communication  
with the company and workshops with  
heads of business partners. We also provide  
training to compliance officers of business  
partners so that they can proactively respond  
to compliance issues in the areas of labor,  
environment, health, and ethics.  
On-site Diagnosis and Support for  Improvements  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics visits its  
business partners to conduct on-site  
inspections based on the evaluation checklist,  
provides guidelines for compliance activities  
related to each item, and supports its partners  
in developing improvement measures for  
items that failed to pass the criteria in order  
to improve compliance management. We are  
making efforts to provide substantial support  
by cooperating with external agencies and  
On-site Diagnosis for Newly Registered  Suppliers 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics conducts on-site  
diagnosis of compliance management at new  
business partners. Items for diagnosis are  
the same as self-evaluation criteria. Business  
partner registration is restricted if they violate  
mandatory compliance items or their score is  
below the threshold. 
 Risk Management Process 
 Compliance management activities between  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics and business partners  
are serving as an opportunity to evaluate compliance  
with the RBA Code of Conduct. With the compliance  
management assessment, business partners are  
able to review their compliance level in areas of labor,  
health and safety, ethics, and others objectively and  
benchmark the best practices. It is also useful to build  
trust with Samsung Electro-Mechanics and improve  
mutual competitiveness.  
WON SUNG-YUK CEO, Daewon Sanup 
Self-evaluation of Existing Suppliers 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics demands  
its business partners who are selected as  
evaluation targets to conduct an annual self- 
inspection with the compliance management  
checklist developed based on the RBA  
Code of Conduct. Business partners identify  
their compliance level and risks through  
the evaluation process and select tasks  
for improvement to voluntarily implement  
improvement activities. The results of the  
self-evaluation are registered via the supplier  
portal MaPS after final approval from the  
partner company CEO. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics conducts the  
on-site diagnosis to verify actual operating  
status after verifying the results of self-  
evaluations. The on-site diagnosis is carried  
out by the designated team with expertise to   
Voluntary labor,  Child labor,  Minimum wage,  Working hour,  Discrimination,  etc. 
CUSTOMER AND BUSINESS PARTNERS 
Labor Health and  Safety Environment Ethics Management System 
Industrial safety,  Contingency  plans, industrial  disaster  and health  management, etc. 
Questions of Business Partner Checklist 
Harmful  substances,  Waste, water  and air pollution,  Relief of product  content, etc. 
 Evaluation of Suppliers and  Results of Support 
identify nonconforming items and to provide  
effective solutions for improvement.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics selects domestic  
and overseas business partners as evaluation  
targets each year for the assessment and  
mitigation of sustainable risks. From 2016  
to 2018, we selected 279 major business  
partners as evaluation targets and completed  
100% diagnosis through self-evaluation and  
site visits.  
We developed evaluation criteria based on  
Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) code of  
conduct and identified 56 business partners  
whose scores were below 80 points or who  
violated mandatory compliance items. Also,  
we have built a process of reducing supply  
chain risks by supporting them with training,  
establishment of corrective action plans, and  
checking the corrective action implementation  
Partners with excellent evaluation results are   
selected and awarded the Compliance  
Management Certificate and prize money. 
Whistleblower  protection,  Personal  information  protection,  Conflict  materials, etc. 
Communication,  Corrective action,  Management  of business  partners, etc. 
Thanks to such efforts, scores of the identified  
companies increased in general. 
We plan to expand the scope of evaluation  
targets to 100 domestic and overseas partners  
in 2019. Also, we are gradually increasing  
the number of business partners undergoing  
the compliance management evaluation to  
include secondary suppliers and planning to  
apply more detailed approaches to reduce  
sustainable management risks in the supply  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics thoroughly  
reviews employment contracts, guarantees  
of minimum wage, protection of minor and  
pregnant employees, and working hours to  
protect workers  rights. There were several  
cases where a number of business partners  
failed to pay minimum wages due to the time  
gap between the period of salary adjustment  
and application of a new minimum wage.  
We took action to demand they immediately  
calculate the correct amount and make  
payment to the underpaid employee. 
We are encouraging suppliers to comply with  
the legal minimum wage and pay more than  
that in evaluating compliance management. 
New registration request 
Supply Chain Risk Management Process 
Improvement activities Site inspection 
Training support Self- evaluation 
Compliance diagnosis Registration 
Safety and Health  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics focuses on the  
inspection of emergency exits, implementation  
of evacuation drills, wearing of protective gear,  
and compliance with medical checkups to  
ensure the safety and promote the health of  
employees. We also provide constant training  
on the importance of wearing protective gear  
and provision of health safety signs for early  
awareness of danger to prevent accidents.  
We conducted on-site investigations to check  
whether fire prevention systems, evacuation  
facilities and equipment operated normally  
and whether obstructions were placed near  
exits intended for emergency evacuation. 
To reinforce management of risks that may  
arise due to the violation of regulations related  
to minimum wage and protection of minor  
employees, Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
strengthened the criteria of related compliance  
items in 2017. 
In addition, we are operating a unit price re- 
determination process to reflect the rise in  
cost due to environmental changes after the  
minimum wage and raw materials are raised.  
In order to prevent deterioration of the working  
environment, such as prolonging working  
hours of suppliers  suppliers due to rapid  
change in order information, the supplier s  
standard supply lead time is used as reference  
information for calculating the ordering cycle.  
We have built and operated an ERP system. 
SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY 
Environment 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics concentrates  
on environmental licensing, compliance  
with MSDS legal requirements, adequacy  
of waste management handling companies,  
water and air pollutant management, and  
response to product-based environmental  
regulations in its investigation activities. We  
provided training to certain business partners  
on how to affix warning signs and labels and  
develop a disposal process for proper waste  
management. 
We focused on checking whether MSDS  
related to the process using chemical  
substances were in place, and if warning signs  
and labels were attached to prevent chemical  
accidents.  
We do our utmost to ensure compliance  
with global ethical standards by all business  
partners within the supply chain. We are  
conducting investigations on issues including  
anonymity- based reporting channels, privacy  
protection, and conflict minerals. We have  
enhanced our efforts in terms of training and  
examination of personal information protection  
to protect the human rights of employees of  
business partners and prevent the risks of  
information leakage. 
Management System 
We upgraded the evaluation system so  
that our business partners can document  
the requirements related to labor and  
human rights and monitor them regularly by  
themselves to comply with human rights and  
labor regulations of the countries they are  
located in. We follow up on actions taken by  
business partners upon violations of laws and  
regulations for recurrence prevention.  
Also, we evaluate communication capabilities  
of secondary suppliers as well as their  
subcontractors to satisfy our requirements  
and enhance sustainable management  
competencies throughout the entire supply  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has launched  
the  Joint Development Awards  for business  
partners since 2015. We strive to secure  
core technological competencies and support  
business partners as they continue to grow  
further through technological development  
and sales growth. The  Joint Development  
Awards  is held to share the company s future  
projects and technological roadmaps on an  
annual basis. Programs to comprehensively  
support outstanding development suggestions  
by business partners are available in the form  
of development funds, technologies and  
personnel. In 2018, 4 tasks from 4 companies  
were selected for the  Joint Development  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has been  
operating the  Win-Win Plaza  as a special  
venue dedicated to technological cooperation  
with business partners since 2005. In 2018,   
8 partners were stationed in the Win-Win  
Plaza and conducted 21 tasks. We also provide  
them with financial support by creating R D  
fund with the government as well as technical  
supports by utilizing our employees. 
Financial Support through the Win-Win  Fund  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has created  
and provided the Win-Win Fund worth KRW  
100 billion in partnership with Woori Bank  
to enable capital investment and liquidity  
support for business partners since 2010. The  
targets for support are qualified primary and  
secondary suppliers and business partners,  
and they are offered a low-interest rate loan  
program of up to KRW 4 billion. In 2018, we  
extended KRW 33.5 billion in loans to 24  
business partners. 
 Joint Technological Development 
  Productivity Enhancement for   Suppliers 
We operate various win-win cooperation programs to establish a culture of mutual growth 
SHARED GROWTH 
Training Support for Suppliers 
We have also been operating the  Win-Win  
Academy  from 2010, to comprehensively and  
systematically foster core personnel in primary  
and secondary suppliers. We formed a training  
consortium with Sungkyunkwan University,  
a specialized educational institute, in order  
to enhance training expertise. Every year,  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics sponsors about  
40 courses, contributing to the development  
of personnel at business partners, and  
securing competitiveness in products and  
costs. In 2018, Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
provided training to 953 individuals (including  
112 from 57 secondary suppliers) via a total of  
40 courses for different roles and tasks. 
Industrial Innovation Movement  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics formed a fund  
worth KRW 3 billion over 5 years by taking  
part in the  Industrial Innovation Movement   
initiated by the Ministry of Trade, Industry  
and Energy since 2013. The fund is used  
to sponsor comprehensive consulting for  
productivity innovation including production,  
manufacturing, quality and the environment,  
and facility procurement expenses for  
business partners. In 2018, Samsung Electro- 
Mechanics extended KRW 600 million for  
management innovation activities by 31  
business partners as part of the sixth-year  
project for the fund.  
CUSTOMER AND BUSINESS PARTNERS 
Intensifying technological development 
Supporting CSR 
Enhancing productivity 
Supporting secondary suppliers 
Four Axes for Shared Growth 
Direction of Shared Growth 
There have been demands within and outside  
of Samsung Electro-Mechanics for compliance  
with RBA standards in the entire supply chain  
as well as for its support for safe working  
environments at suppliers business partners.  
Therefore, we have provided RBA training and  
support for self- inspections, and conducted  
inspections through visits, consulting services,  
and have also helped partners to make  
improvements in order to lay the foundation  
for compliance with international norms in  
terms of human rights, labor, environment  
and safety. In 2018, we provided DAEWON  
SANUPO., LTD. with compliance management  
certificates for their excellent performance in  
the same area. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics organizes the  
 Festival with Suppliers for Shared Growth   
each year, sharing visions for shared growth  
and outstanding case studies of innovation.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics also holds a  
 Communication Seminar with Suppliers   
for primary and secondary suppliers on two  
occasions in the first and second half of each  
year respectively, 
  Support for Compliance with   RBA Standards 
 Communication with Suppliers 
Technology 
Raising performance for joint   technological development Responsibility 
Compliance management evaluation 
Innovating productivity  (finance training consulting, etc.) 
Share Security 
Sharing performance   protecting technologies 
Supporting secondary suppliers 
to share policies on Win-Win Cooperation  
with Samsung Electro-Mechanics and to  
provide a forum to accept and handle VOC  
from business partners. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics plans to inject  
KRW 43 billion for financial support, assist  
business partners to hire 100 employees, and  
educate and train 800 employees of business  
partners by 2019, with the aim to establish  
a competitive system with our partners  
based on the horizontal and satisfactory  
communication. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics runs various  
communication channels to systematically  
accept and handle the VOC from business  
partners to increase satisfaction levels: 
-Direct phone line (031-210-3790)  
-Email account (semco.voc samsung.com)  
- Procurement portal website   
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has made  
multiple efforts to establish a culture of fair  
trade and shared growth between primary  
and secondary suppliers. Since 2014,  
secondary suppliers have been encouraged to  
participate in the  Supplier Exchange Forum ,  
a consultative body of suppliers.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has established  
a supply chain CSR project with business  
partners by extending diverse safe  
environment programs run by separate  
teams supporting the management of safe  
environments at business partners. 
Free training on safe environments is  
conducted for over 300 managers in the areas  
of product environment as well as executive  
managers and persons in charge of safe  
environments at business partners based on  
their assigned roles. For business partners  
who are vulnerable in terms of the safe  
environment, additional consulting is provided. 
(www.semcobuy.com)  
 Listening to the VOC of Suppliers 
  Efforts to Diffuse the Culture of  Win-Win Cooperation between   Primary and Secondary Suppliers 
  Supply Chain Safety   Environment Support 
Safe Environments and Disaster  Prevention 
The risk assessment is conducted in  
conjunction with specialized agencies for  
business partners subject to higher risks  
of safety accidents, to help them explore  
and address disaster causes. We provide  
consulting on environmental and chemical  
materials using our exclusive specialized  
workforce. By doing so, we expect that  
our partners are fully prepared for disaster  
prevention including the resolution of legal  
environmental issues and prevention of  
chemical leakage. The Suwon and Busan  
Plants acquired  A , the highest grade, in the  
Win-Win Cooperation program on safety and  
health in 2018. 
Higher Efficiency in Energy 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics provides  
business partners with consulting on the  
efficient use of energy and supports them to  
discover methods of energy use reduction  
by utilizing in-house specialists. We provide  
support to about 10 business partners to  
promote higher energy efficiency. If they  
request investment costs needed for energy  
use reduction, Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
extends low-interest loans financed by the  
Win-Win Cooperation Fund. 
Safety Diagnosis of Electric Power  Facilities 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics provides  
programs to business partners for the  
prevention of blackouts and other critical  
accidents. To this end, we conduct an in- 
depth diagnosis of electric power facilities  
including inspection of transformers and  
measurement of thermal burns for over 20  
business partners each year and provide  
solutions for improvement to proactively  
support their efforts at preventing accidental  
power failures.  
 Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
considers suppliers its business  
partners, jointly carries out  
development activities, and  
deals with quality issues.  
Im Il-ji CEO, Daejoo Electronic Materials 
SHARED GROWTH 
Safety and Health Programs for Win- Win Cooperation  
From 2016 to 2018, 19 business partners  
were provided with support free of charge  
to acquire safety and health management  
system (KOSHA 18001) certification. As a  
result, Samsung Electro-Mechanics strives to  
ensure safety management by compleming  
voluntary safety and health management  
systems of partner companies. 
IBK, Green Consulting 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics signed an  
agreement with IBK in 2013 to provide  
free green consulting to business partners.  
Professional consulting has been extended  
through 8 programs in the areas of the  
environment and energy including the  
acquisition of energy management system  
(ISO 50001) certification. 
Fifty business partners were provided with  
energy use diagnosis and energy management  
consulting from 2014 to 2018, resulting in 174  
tasks for improvement. They were also able to  
establish energy management systems, create  
GHG inventories, set up systems to calculate  
emissions, and hand over environmental  
management technologies, thereby enjoying  
a higher level of environmental and energy  
management. 
Samsung Fire   Marine Insurance- Safety Check for Fire and Explosion  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics provides free  
safety diagnosis against fire and explosion  
by signing an agreement with Samsung Fire  
  Marine Insurance to prevent against fire or  
explosive disasters at business partners. From  
2016 to 2018, disaster prevention specialists  
were dispatched to 41 business partners  
to conduct safety checks, write reports  
on risks and improvement measures, and  
induce business partners to voluntarily make  
improvements themselves.  
  Cooperation Forum with   Specialized Institutions 
our employees in accordance with the Labor Standards Act and operate a Labor-Management Council.  
 its human-centered management principles. We provide transparent employment opportunities by  
We are dedicated to building a bright future that is created jointly by individuals and  
removing discriminatory factors irrelevant to individual capability for all job seekers.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics constructs a corporate culture based on 
We have provided various methods to protect the human rights of  
the company and where all employees  rights are respected. 
Recruitment and Workforce Configuration 
Competency Development 
Human Rights and Labor 
Safety and Health 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics continues  
to innovate with ceaseless passion and  
communicates with employees to achieve  
its goals under the talent management  
philosophy that individual growth equals  
corporate growth.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics selects talent  
with leadership potential who are not  
afraid of failure based on a creative and  
innovative mindset, solve problems with new  
approaches, respect others, and fulfil their  
roles and responsibilities. 
Moving Forward Together with Open  Employment Policies 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics provides equal  
opportunities by removing discriminatory  
factors including academic background and  
gender unrelated to individual capabilities  
when selecting job candidates and sticks to  
the principle of selecting talent based on job  
competencies. Also, we operate a transparent  
recruitment process to identify and hire talent  
in diverse areas. Our internship program  
provides many university students with equal  
opportunities to experience life at work and  
a corporate culture before they advance into  
 Vision for Talent 
We implement open employment policies providing equal opportunities to outstanding talent from diverse fields 
30,469 19,728 10,667 
RECRUITMENT AND WORKFORCE CONFIGURATION 
Employment of the Disabled 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics adheres to an  
employment policy for disabled people and  
practices transparent and fair recruitment.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics makes efforts  
to improve working conditions and develops  
communication between employees,  
while providing suitable jobs befitting their  
capabilities after they are employed. 
The number of disabled employees totaled  
227 in 2018, which is around 2.1% of the  
total number of domestic employees. We  
will continue to expand the employment of  
disabled people. 
Recruitment Process 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics operates a fair  
recruitment process to secure competent  
talent in diverse areas and provide equal  
opportunities to all job seekers.  
We provide job opportunities to diverse  
social brackets by recruiting not only college  
graduates but also junior college and high  
school graduates as new employees. In terms  
of experienced hires, we operate both periodic  
recruitment and non-scheduled recruitment  
conducted by each department based on  
different needs. 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: persons) 
Asia Korea Americas Europe 
34,411 23,641 10,697 
Employees by Region 
As of 2018, the number of employees at  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics stands at 37,472,  
an increase of about 8.9% compared to  
34,411 in 2017. The decrease in employment  
due to the emergence of a low-growth era  
and accompanying economic downturn is  
a serious issue. We continue to create jobs  
in countries where we operate based on  
effective business management, identification  
of new projects for the future, and continual  
investment. 
Current Status of Non-regular  Employees 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics hires permanent  
employees for regular and continuous tasks  
in principle and is making efforts to eradicate  
unnecessary employment of irregular  
workers. We will do our utmost to provide  
equal treatment to non-regular employees  
equivalent to regular workers who do the  
same work. 
We select talent based on individual job  
competencies and do not consider individual  
capabilities irrelevant to job tasks. 
 Status of Employees 
37,472 25,676 11,724 
Diversity in Gender 
Female employees at Samsung Electro- 
Mechanics constitute 23% of the total in  
Korea and 51% of the total abroad as of 2018.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics is making efforts  
to promote gender equality in the workplace  
by expanding the period of maternity leave to  
2 years to support female employees as they  
continue their careers. 
Diversity in Age  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics adopted the peak  
wage system for continuous employment  
of workers after the existing retirement age  
(55 years of age) amidst a rapidly ageing  
society in Korea to provide employment for  
senior employees and enhance job security  
of workers. As a result, the average years of  
service at domestic sites is 12years in 2018. 
Status of Female Senior Officers 
Domestic Total senior officers 3,702 3,897 4,158 
Overseas Total senior officers 610 690 785 
Percentage of Female Employees 
Female senior officers 209 247 298 
Percentage 5.7% 6.3% 7.2% 
Female senior officers 161 186 221 
Percentage 26.4% 27.0% 28.2% 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: persons) 
2016 2017 2018 
RECRUITMENT AND WORKFORCE CONFIGURATION 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: %) 
Employees by Gender 
 Below 20  21 39  40 49  Over 50 
Male Female 
Status of Employment by Positions 
Status of Employee Gender (coverage: consolidated basis, unit: persons) 
Domestic Executives 52 57 57 
Domestic Male 8,108 8,174 9,023 
Overseas Executives 6 5 6 
Total 30,469 34,411 37,472 
Overseas Male 8,539 10,844 12,600 
Total 30,469 34,411 37,472 
Status of Employment by Age 
Mid-executives 3,702 3,897 4,158 
Employees 6,766 6,619 7,388 
Non-regular Employees 147 124 121 
Sub total 10,667 10,697 11,724 
Mid-executives 610 690 785 
Employees 17,221 21,216 24,008 
Non-regular Employees 1,965 1,803 949 
Sub total 19,802 23,714 25,748 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: %) 
Female 2,559 2,523 2,701 
Sub total 10,667 10,697 11,724 
Female 11,263 12,870 13,148 
Sub total 19,802 23,714 25,748 
59.9 28.4 9.8 1.9 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: persons) 
2016 2017 2018 
2016 2017 2018 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics provides  
specialized leadership, job and global training  
sessions to develop globally competitive talent  
in order to prepare for the future under the  
motto of the Change, Innovate, Challenge  
(CIC). A voluntary learning culture is formed  
to enhance job expertise by conducting  
customized training related to jobs in a  
systematic manner by each department in  
order to encourage commitment to performing  
current roles according to employment rank  
and to prepare for future roles. Training is  
provided on global communication, values  
and corporate culture for employees at  
home and abroad, which enables cross- 
border communication and improves overall  
competency level. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics runs a leadership  
program, aiming to develop core competencies  
needed for each job rank. As a consequence,  
we pave the way for continued growth and  
development of employees, reinforce a  
personnel network among trainees and form a  
culture of communication and collaboration 
 Customized Training on  Competencies 
 Vision for Talent Nurturing 
COMPETENCY DEVELOPMENT 
We provide customized training for the development of individuals and the company 
The introductory training for new employees  
consists of diverse programs to foster them  
to become leaders in the future under the  
unique management principles of Samsung  
Electro-Mechanics: change, innovation, and  
challenge. Samsung Electro-Mechanics seeks  
to develop fundamental character through  
training on basic mindset and attitudes,  
compliance management, and dishonesty  
prevention required of employees. We ensure  
that they become genuine Samsung Electro- 
Mechanics employees promptly through  
training programs that include mentoring to  
help them adapt to tasks in their departments  
as well as boost their understanding of work  
and networking competencies. Also, their  
capabilities are augmented to help them to  
understand manufacturing sites better and  
communicate better with others through   
on-site work practices and shift-based work.  
 Introductory Training 
Education Performance (coverage: domestic basis, unit: persons) 
Educational Expenses (coverage: domestic basis, unit: KRW million) 
Number of hours for training per  person (hours person) 87 79 95 
Total education time (hours) 927,978 849,749 1,116,459 
Domestic employees (person) 10,667 10,697 11,724 
Amount of money spent for training  per person 0.80 0.74 0.86 
Total education training expense 8,528 7,917 10,108 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics runs promotional  
training programs to pave the way for further  
growth along with an enhanced awareness of  
changing roles and responsibilities.  
In addition to training for job competencies,  
we focus on enhancing employee self-esteem  
by developing and running programs to deliver  
congratulatory messages to those promoted.  
Training programs for mid-level executives  
focus on clear awareness of the changing  
environment and key issues of Samsung  
Electro-Mechanics and managing roles by  
position. Training programs for employees  
highlight the company s management  
principle-based empathy, implementation,  
collaboration and self-management. Likewise,  
we provide training programs that are  
specialized and tailored to each position. 
 Promotional Training 
2016 2017 2018 
2016 2017 2018 
Department Tasks Education (coverage: consolidated basis, unit: cases, persons) 
Human resource development system 
Global Job Function Category 
Department CA (persons)  262 270 292 
No. of employees taking the courses (persons) 37,821 41,552 37,264 
No. of times the courses are run (cases) 2,375 3,031 1,362 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: hours, persons) 
Online Education Programs 
 Number of hours completed on average 
 Number of employees that took courses 
Promotion to Senior  Professional Engineer 
Promotion to  Professional Engineer 
Promotion to   Principal Professional   Engineer 
Leadership of heads   of departments 
Training of new  employees for   prompt deployment 
Introduction to SVP 
Fostering heads of  departments 
Introduction to  Samsung Electro- Mechanics 
Basic Leadership 
Introduction to Samsung 
Field managers candidates  Group presidents 
Introduction to careers 
New field Managers   Group presidents  
Fostering executives 
Foreign Language Daily Life Center 
2016 2017 2018 
 All  Selected  Human Resources Development Institute 
(coverage: domestic basis, unit: persons) 
0 2018 2016 2017 
COMPETENCY DEVELOPMENT 
 English  Chinese  Japanese 
 Other important foreign languages 
Manufacturing 
Biz Design 
Sales Marketing 
Procurement Logistics Quality Innovation A 
Cyber training per job function Departmental task learning 
Academic dispatch 
internal language courses 
Foreign Language Daily Life Center 
Short-term Intensive Course 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics allows  
employees to take an online course once per  
month, which is easily accessible regardless  
of time and space, as a means for the  
development of individual competencies and  
working knowledge, encouraging them to  
enhance their competencies in a broad range  
of fields including leadership, job tasks and  
languages. 
In 2015, we established SEUM Cyber to  
create a comprehensive talent nurturing  
system based on the Road Map adapted  
to the company's unique job levels. The  
system is used to enhance competencies in  
manufacturing technology. 
In order to strengthen communication  
competencies of employees within a global  
company, we run a program titled  Foreign  
Language Daily Life Center . It is a 10-week  
residential course in which employees are  
allowed to speak only the language they  
are practicing. By doing so, they are taught  
to handle various situations that can be  
useful in conducting their duties and prepare  
themselves to become global specialists. 
We also run various programs including  
'global biz courses', 'internal language  
courses', 'short term intensive courses (9- 
day miracle)', 'intensive language classes', and  
others to help employees acquire essential  
competencies in order to improve global  
communication competencies. 
Persons in charge of education and training  
in domestic and overseas subsidiaries hold a  
conference call each month and continue to  
communicate with each other to deliver and  
share their know-how and best practices. 
  Support for Online Education   Programs 
  Expansion of Global   Communication Competencies 
Support for Redesigning Retirees  Lives 
Employees are provided with Life Coaching  
programs when they enter a life transition  
period (age 45) so encourage them to naturally  
build a new career path. However, many  
employees feel lost and confused about how  
to prepare for the era of centenarians and  
advance their career after retirement. 
  Lifelong Career Consulting for Employees 
Career Execution (Job transfer) Career Design (employees aged between 45 to 50) 
Analysis of long-term goals 
   Experience goal reset    Life-span occupation plan 
HR DEVELOPMENT CAREER CONSULTING 
COACHING PLANNING RESTART 
   Help retirees write their CVs for individual career advancement    Discovering positions and job interview support for retirees who seek reemployment 
Local governments 
Job Transferring Support for Retirees 
Providing detailed support for reemployment 
Career Consulting Program 
Developing an alternative career  path in life transition period 
   Mental stability    Checking goals and directions 
Career Consulting Center 
Career Recheck (Retirement decision,   early stage of retirement) 
Government agencies 
Major Programs 
The program for retired executives and  
employees that has been carried out since  
2002 has generated high satisfaction and  
performance. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics runs diverse  
programs to raise the quality of life of  
employees. For instance, we provide support  
for the reemployment or startup ventures  
of would-be retirees. We also help retirees  
to successfully design a new life even after  
retirement.  
Career consulting for a new life Career consulting including setting  directions and making decisions taking into  account interests, emotions, and changing  circumstances 
Training agencies Center N W 
Providing training programs in   diverse fields Programs include pension planning  and field experience in the form  of lifestyle design, reemployment,  start-up ventures, urban-to-rural  experience programs circumstances 
    Practical support for job transfer     Coaching and ex post facto  management 
venture course (2 times year) providing  
general guidelines such as selection of  
business items, development of business  
plans, and business registration. Also, the  
urban-to-rural experience program (2 times  
year) offering an overview of returning  
to farming through a rural field trip, and  
specialized programs for executives (3 times  
year) are provided as well. Likewise, retired  
executives and employees can select a course  
among various programs provided based on  
their needs. 
The integrated consulting center is an  
exclusive space for retirees near the company  
encompassing a multi-media training room  
accommodating 50 people at once, a 21-seat  
internet cafe where retirees can develop their  
business plans and engage in job-seeking  
activities, 4 consulting rooms, and a lounge  
where users can enjoy a wonderful view  
of the changing seasons. In the center, we  
provide individual assessment and change  
management. 
Vision for the Future 
The Career Consulting Center provides  
customized programs with depth and insight  
which analyze the retirement environment  
in depth and offer tailored support according  
to individual strengths and weaknesses  
and reflect the interests of retirees beyond  
extending support for reemployment and job  
transfer. Concerted efforts are made to ensure  
the center serves as a beacon of light and  
a reliable companion for retirees to discover  
a new life and beyond in an age when the  
average lifespan is nearing 100 years. 
We have integrated programs for retirees of 5  
electronic companies to create synergy effects  
based on their amassed capabilities and hired  
experts to run the enhanced quality programs  
since July 2015. 
Retirees can take part in a Life Design  
program (5 times year) to establish a platform  
for lifelong development, a Career Design  
program (4 times year) and a Career Change  
course (5 times year) to redesign their careers  
at a critical turning point. 
Start-up seekers can attend the start-up   
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has devised  
various measures to protect the human rights  
of employees in accordance with the Labor  
Standards Act. Employment rules at Samsung  
Electro-Mechanics contain provisions on the  
protection of human rights by prohibiting all  
types of discrimination (nationality, gender,  
religion, academic background, social status,  
etc.) and forced labor. We also thoroughly  
identify human rights protection provisions  
prescribed in the Constitution of Korea and  
the Labor Act, and preemptively comply  
with them. We comply with regulations of  
the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) for  
overseas subsidiaries, prohibiting forced labor  
and child labor in accordance with the Labor  
Act in local countries.  
Our procedures are in place to reasonably  
accommodate for religious practices and  
adjustments to the work environment to allow  
a worker to comply with their religious beliefs  
while at work. We also respect the legal right  
of all workers to peacefully assemble as well  
as respect the right of workers to refrain from  
doingso. The workers have right to individual  
or collectively raise their concerns or ideas. 
We continuously engage in activities to  
evaluate, monitor, collaborate, and support  
efforts to protect the human rights of both  
our employees and stakeholders including  
business partners and local communities. 
Preventive Activities Samsung Electro-Mechanics makes efforts to  
build a sound corporate culture by respecting  
individuals and building mutual trust.  
We operate sexual harassment prevention  
programs every year, according to Article 13 of  
the Equal Employment Opportunity and Work- 
Family Balance Assistance Act and also conduct  
activities related to the prevention of sexual  
harassment through  Change Agents (CA),  which  
involves in-house counselors who are dispatched  
to each department. We also operate a  sexual  
harassment, verbal violence, harmful drinking  
 Protection of Human Rights 
HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR 
We practice a culture of mutual respect and provide protection for human rights by   creating a cooperative labor-management culture 
 In the age of infinite competition,  we must maintain the highest level  of productivity as all employees make  concerted efforts to fulfill their duties  and this requires mutual cooperation  from both labor and management.  Hence, the Hanwullim Council  encourages a process of mutual  understanding and cooperation fairly to realize mutual interests shared by labor and management by holding regular consultative meetings each year. As a body representing employees of Samsung Electro-Mechanics, we will strive to collect their opinions, provide an outstanding work environment so that we can contribute to boost corporate value.  
Lim Young-tak Chairperson of Hanwullim Council, Samsung Electro-Mechanics 
culture report center  via the company intranet  
and resolve problems regarding human rights  
violations at the  Mental Health Center,  and  
through a smartphone application,  Mobile 7979 . 
In an effort to establish a culture of mutual  
respect, we provide training in 5 areas to  
encourages respect for others (hierarchy   
colleague opposite gender life task) among  
all employees. 
For foreign employees, we have employment  
rules written in languages (Japanese and  
English) that they can understand and each  
overseas subsidiary discloses and provides  
notification of the employment rules translated  
into the language of country concerned.  
For business partners in charge of the security  
of our business sites, we emphasize the  
prevention of human rights violations, while  
security companies provide training on human  
rights protection on a quarterly basis. We also  
HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR 
The Management Labor Council runs the  
Ombudsman board on its website, enabling  
two-way communication regarding grievances  
related to employees  human rights. Employee  
representatives of the Hanwullim Council  
gather opinions on each sector for suggested  
grievances, and provide answers or solve  
problems. Consultations on its activities  
are transparently disclosed via its website,  
contributing to the management system of  
shared growth of labor and management. 
conduct human rights training for security  
staff at home and abroad. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics prohibits the  
Human Rights Supervision and  Appraisal We make continued efforts to protect human  
rights throughout the company and promote  
human rights protection activities through  
cooperation with the legal department,  
compliance department, HR, inspection  
department and counseling center. Labor  
management gives an ear to employees and  
allows them to select cooperation council  
representatives through elections and  
operates a discussion system. The HR Team  
adopted on-site organizational management  
assessments in 2013, giving feedback to  
each department after evaluating the level  
of mutual respect and protection of human  
rights within each business unit. If issues are  
found during the assessment, we provide  
measures for improvement based on causal  
analysis and follow up on improvement status  
through regular monitoring activities.  
recruitment of minors by submitting a  
copy of resident registration and related  
supporting documents during the  
recruitment process. 
Completion rate of sexual  harassment preventive education 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics runs the Labor- 
Management Council pursuant to the Act  
for Workers  Participation and Cooperation  
Enhancement. 
Believing that stronger employee  
competitiveness through labor-management  
harmony equals corporate competitiveness,  
we constantly communicate with the Labor-  
Management Council, proactively gathering  
employees  ideas. The Hanwullim Council  
is the employee (accounting for 63.0% of all  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics employees)  
representative organization, gathering  
feedback through various communication  
channels.  
It is celebrating the 19th cohort now, since  
the first Labor-Management Council was  
established in 1981 and has served as a  
consultation body through the selection of 51  
representatives directly elected by employees. 
Plant Council and Board Discussions 
Discussions in which labor-management  
representatives participate every month  
through board discussion councils and  
plant councils contribute to improving the  
cooperative labor-management culture.  
Matters significantly impacting employees  
are discussed regularly by organizing monthly  
labor-management council meetings and  
notifications of decisions taken are provided  
within 30 days. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics plans to speed  
up the process of employee grievance  
handling and sets a target of handling 950  
cases by 2020. 
Multidirectional Communication Channel 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has made  
available multidirectional communication  
channels to enhance its corporate culture  
and promote a GWP (Great Work Place) for  
employees while contributing to employee  
satisfaction by carrying out various  
communication activities. We also carry out  
communication activities through online and  
offline channels.  
  Cooperative Labor-Management   Culture 
We promote online communication through  
 SEM Ground,  an internal communication  
portal, which share the company s corporate  
culture and related news and discussion, the  
bulletin board to help provide an outlet for  
employees  VOC and improve satisfaction. 
Status of each Deliberation Organization of the Hanwullim Council (coverage: domestic basis, unit: cases) 
   FUN : Employee contributions, assistance for unexpected misfortunes, activities to revitalize organizations, etc.  
PRIDE 17 14 10 
TRUST 11 13 11 
Total 47 45 63 
PRIDE : Improvement of company-wide welfare facilities, efforts to enhance working environment, productivity, competitiveness, etc.  
TRUST : Institutional systems regarding HR, labor-management relations and employee training, and criteria of wage and benefit systems  
WOMEN : Improvement of company-wide welfare facilities and personnel management system related to women employees 
Receipt and Processing Status of Online Suggestions 
(coverage: domestic basis, unit: cases) 
2016 2017 2018 
Change Agents (CA) are selected in each  
department to handle offline communication  
to organize activities for improvement  
targeting GWP, training, consultation and  
security. Leaders of volunteering and club  
groups fulfill their roles, contributing to a  
stronger communication culture.  
All employees can participate in these multi- 
directional communication activities, evaluated  
to offer a high level of satisfaction. 
 Improvement of Infrastructure 
 Employment system 
 Fringe benefit 
Online Communication among Employees 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics is creating  
a basis for proactive communication and  
empathy with stakeholders through diverse  
online communication channels. We strive to  
create a culture of openness where internal  
and external stakeholders empathize with  
one another and share ideas in a transparent  
manner through the company s website and  
social media channels. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics contributes to  
employee satisfaction by making available  
multi-directional communication channels  
to establish an appropriate corporate culture  
and realize a GWP (Great Work Place) for  
employees. 
In-house Counselors as  Change Agents  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics fosters  Change  
Agents  as in-house quasi-counselors in  
each department to provide training on the  
promotion of mental health for employees  
twice per year. The monthly Mental Health  
Letter is sent to employees to share  
information on high-quality counseling  
services to promote mental health. 
Evaluation and Management of Targets 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has established  
the  Management By Objectives  (MBO)  
system to provide well-defined guidelines  
for employees to play a leading role in  
conducting business activities and has fine- 
tuned the process based on interim checks  
and feedback to ensure the fair evaluation of  
employees. 
In order to enhance the fairness in evaluation  
and employees  acceptability of the results,  
we cross-check the result of MBO and  
performance reviews. Employees are allowed  
to undergo another round of reviews through  
the application process to raise objections  
if there is any objection to the results. We  
are also making efforts to enhance the  
competencies of reviewers by providing  
them with bi-annual training sessions and  
evaluation manuals. 
  Evaluation and Remuneration   System 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics promotes  
the enhancement of labor productivity by  
stabilizing the livelihood of employees and  
enhancing quality in its workforce with the  
guarantee of a minimum wage. Samsung  
Electro-Mechanics, which has established  
a global network operating in Korea, China,  
Thailand, the Philippines, Vietnam, and other  
countries pays a minimum wage that is higher  
than the amount prescribed in the laws of  
countries concerned.  
If the amount provided to employees as  
welfare benefits is included in the monthly  
salary, the total payment is higher than the  
amount listed above, ensuring that employees  
can enjoy a good quality of life.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics guarantees equal  
wages for men and women, which means that  
payment for female employees is the same as  
that of male workers. If the value of women s  
labor is underestimated, it may serve as an  
obstacle in terms of their social participation  
and economic opportunity, creating a negative  
impact on economic growth. 
 Minimum Wage 
 Equality in Wage 
Financial non-financial performance in   relation to organizational goals 
HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR 
Goal setting   Process management     Evaluation feedback 
Individual MBO 
Performance  evaluation Capabilities  assessment 
Employee Evaluation and Remuneration Principle 
Decision  on employee  remuneration  annual salary    incentive 
Advanced Welfare Benefits 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics operates a  
comprehensive company policy that ensures  
an improvement in the quality of life among  
our employees. We provide differentiated  
corporate benefits by providing pensions,  
education expenses for employees  children,  
reimbursement for medical services (spouse,  
children), benefits for special events such  
as births and matriculation, and of course,  
assistance in the case of unexpected  
misfortune. 
We also encourage our employees to enjoy  
leisure activities at vacation venues, water  
parks and other wellness programs and clubs,  
to provide access to benefits that are suitable  
for each individual s lifestyle as part of our  
selective benefit system. 
Employee Satisfaction Survey 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics annually  
administers the SCI (Samsung Culture Index)  
domestically and internationally to enhance  
the working environment and chart employee  
satisfaction. We carry out appropriate system  
and infrastructure improvements by analyzing  
the results and aim to enhance satisfaction  
among employees. 
Basic capabilities 
 Employee Satisfaction 
Attitude capabilities for   successful task execution 
Job capabilities 
Leadership capabilities 
Flexible Working Hours 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics adjusts working  
hours required for individual jobs and lifestyles  
and maximizes workplace efficiency by  
implementing an individual attendance  
policy and a flexible working hour policy. The  
purpose of adopting these policies was to lay  
the strategic foundation for Win-Win Benefits  
for individuals and the company, while  
realizing the goal of  working smart.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics introduced a  
working time management system to help  
employees manage their own working hours,  
and strives to eradicate excessive working  
hours. In the case of personnel who are  
expected to work excessively, the head of  
the department is given an alarm to request  
the management of the working hours of the  
department members. 
This has killed two birds with one stone- 
adding flexibility to employees  lives and  
bringing about synergies in work-contributing  
to higher employee satisfaction through a  
work-life balance. Furthermore, it is used as  
a system that creates additional family time  
and a more comfortable working environment  
for employees with children. A  Homerun Day   
is designated twice a month to encourage  
employees to spend more time with their  
Family-friendly Management  
Also, Samsung Electro-Mechanics received  
a high score from the Ministry of Gender  
Equality and Family as the Best Family Friendly  
Company. Samsung Electro-Mechanics has  
also participated in the government s policy  
consulting for a balanced work and home  
life as a member of the family policy forum  
committee. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics holds  inviting  
the family  activities as part of its family- 
friendly policies and these activities are  
popular among employees.  
 Work and Life Balance 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics provides  
opportunities to work and receive education  
regardless of gender by improving the rights  
of female employees and related welfare  
benefits. The company also operates various  
maternity protection policies. 
Maternity Protection Programs 
In addition to than maternity leave before and  
after birth and parental leave, we support  
employees as they become moms by  
providing health checkups and time to spend  
with children as part of the newly created  
 mommy leave  as well as parental leave that  
has been expanded to two-years. Infertility  
treatment leave is also provided as part of  
preparation for those who are seeking to have  
children in the future. We also provide gifts  
and grants to employees whose spouses have  
given birth to celebrate them at the company  
The activities include children s day activities,  
employees  family camps and diverse theme  
trips every month. We also conduct family  
counseling programs through the counseling  
centers to help employees balance their  
work-life and family responsibilities. We  
provide support the education of employees   
children and for medical expenses incurred by  
spouses children to help relieve the burden  
imposed by school and hospital bills. We  
also provide support for unexpected financial  
bills in case of emergencies. We also aid  
employees in the event of family medical  
issues such as organ transplants or nursing  
care, by developing policies such as transplant  
leave and nursing care leave policies. 
  Improvement of the Rights of   Female Employees 
Childcare Support 
We operate in-house childcare facilities for  
female employees with children, to help them  
focus on work and help relieve the associated  
financial burden by providing support for  
kindergarten tuition and children s medical  
Improvement of Infrastructure 
We provide different-colored employee  
cards to pregnant women and new moms at  
work, so that employees can recognize them  
easily. We also operate lounges that cater  
to pregnant women and provide additional  
snacks in cafeterias as well as a mom-to- 
be parking lot for the enhancement of their  
working environment. 
W Committee 
Since 2013, Samsung Electro-Mechanics has  
operated a committee concerned with the  
enhancement of female employees, the - W  
(Women) Committee -and holds conference  
meetings for the betterment of female  
employees. Samsung Electro- Mechanics  
has also implemented a policy where the  
relevant committees can carry out discussions  
regarding VOC of female employees and thus  
help improve their working environment. 
Based on the management principles of valuing  
safety, environment and health, Samsung  
Electro-Mechanics puts significant emphasis  
on safety and health management in operating  
its business. We continue to carry out activities  
to create a safe workplace by ensuring safety  
for all and promoting health to expand a culture  
of safety. 
Industrial Safety and Health Committe 
The Industrial Safety and Health Committee is  
convened every quarter with an equal number  
of labor-management representatives. The  
committee conducts activities that are directly  
related to the management of the safety and  
health of employees such as the development  
of disaster prevention plans, documentation  
and revision of safety and health management  
regulations, medical examinations, and working  
environment assessments. The committee  
has successfully resolved items, which  
were selected based on the deliberation and  
decision-making of the labor and management  
representatives on the safety and health of  
employees through quarterly meetings. As  
such, we ensure employees conduct their work  
in a pleasant and safe working environment  
and improve overall employee health.  
Executive Commitment to Safety and  Health 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics conducts a  
monthly safety environment meeting presided  
by the CEO that includes participation by key  
executives and heads of business divisions  
under the banner that  Creating a healthy  
and safe workplace is the top priority of  
management.  During the meeting, issues  
related to health and safety and the results  
of safety activities being carried out by each  
business division are presented and discussed.   
 The Value of Safety and Health 
  Creating a Safe and Healthy   Workplace 
We realize a management culture promoting safety and health by reinforcing prevention activities 
SAFETY AND HEALTH 
We assign specific goals related to safety  
management activities to executives and heads  
of each business division to ensure that they  
take responsibility in managing related issues. 
Early Detection and Management of  Risk Factors 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics conducts  
qualitative and quantitative risk assessments  
to identify hazards and risk factors in advance  
when changes occur such as the deployment  
of new processes and facilities. We are also  
strengthening preemptive prevention activities  
by dealing with identified risk factors to reduce  
risk and by conducting reassessment of all  
areas each year.  
Intensive Management Efforts to  Prevent Major Industrial Accidents 
Samsung Electro Mechanics develops a  
process safety report based on process safety  
management data sheets, risk assessments,  
operational safety, emergency preparedness  
and responses to enhance prevention of major  
industrial accidents such as fire and explosion  
in processes involving large-scale hazardous  
materials. We strive to maintain Process Safety  
Management (PSM) at the highest level and to  
prevent all major industrial accidents. We have  
developed and operate e-learning programs for  
employees and established a safety experience   
   Regulatory compliance check      Collection of complaints from  departments     Best-practices worksite B M 
Basic Investigation Status Check Corrective Actions 
Worksite safety 
SAFETY AND HEALTH 
Virtual safety 
Thematic Safety Experience Training Center 
Work Environment Improvement Process 
First aid Fire safety 
    Measurement and survey    Employee interviews     Identification of root causes 
Heavy materials 
Chemical substances 
training center to enhance safety awareness  
among both our employees and business  
partners at all work sites for disaster  
prevention. 
Prior Review and Approval of Hazardous  and High-Risk Operations 
In principle, 9 types of high-risk operations  
related to flammables, heights, sealing,  
asbestos, heavy equipment, electricity, and  
others should be reported and receive approval  
one day before carrying out such activities.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics develops and  
shares safety work plans for the activities listed  
above to ensure safety from potential risks  
and carries out pre-, ongoing, and post-safety  
management activities accordingly. 
Assessment of the Working Environment 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics manages  
occupational exposure limits for chemical  
substances at 30% below the statutory level  
to create a pleasant working environment. We  
ensure efficient management of worksites  
through various assessment measures such  
as local exhaust ventilation system design,  
construction validation, and self-inspection and  
also conduct pre- and post-evaluations of the  
ergonomics process.  
Falling objects 
     Agreement on improvement  direction     Improvement activities      Analysis of the improvements  and outcomes 
Emergency Drills 
As for simple repetitive tasks and activities  
creating an excessive burden on the body,  
we study the hazardous factors and focus  
on ergonomic task improvement for any  
irregularities found. As for personal protective  
equipment, we provide training on how to wear  
appropriate gear and information on hazards  
and risks. For dust masks and other protective  
respiratory equipment, periodic training and  
evaluations are provided to ensure that workers  
are not exposed to hazardous environments. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
provides various health  
check-up programs  
including comprehensive  
physical examinations- 
general, special, and detailed  
check-ups, and thorough  
examinations during life  
transition periods-mental  
health tests and various  
kinds of cancer screening, to  
promote employee health. Samsung Electro- 
Mechanics operates an in-house medical clinic  
to efficiently and professionally manage the  
health of employees. Family physicians and  
dermatologists provide medical checkups and  
follow-up management after the examination  
as well as orthopedic care services in a physical  
therapy room to relieve symptoms and to  
provide precautionary remedies.  
To promote the health of all employees at  
worksites, we provide vaccinations, care  
programs for employees who return to work  
after sick leave, hazards and risk assessment  
for maternity care givers. We also run a Body  
Mass Index (BMI) program helps employees  
return to health by improving eating habits and  
metabolic activities, non-smoker certification  
to actively support smoking-cessation activities  
and regular smoking cessation programs. 
Comprehensive drill All employees Twice a year Evacuation drill in preparation for disasters 
Response drill The building Once a month Drill based on the 13 risk response scenarios 
Basic drill Manufacture process Once a month Basic drill led by volunteer fire department 
Etc Female dormitory Twice a year Fire emergency evacuation drill at night 
 Health Promotion 
Daycare center Once a month Fire emergency evacuation drill 
Target  Cycle Description 
 Samsung Electro-Mechanics adheres to the principle  
that  Creating a healthy and safe workplace is the top  
priority of management.  Unsafe working conditions and  
workplaces can serve as factors decreasing productivity,  
posing a negative impact on sustainable growth.  
Hence, Samsung Electro-Mechanics strives to establish  
and spread the right culture for safety.  
Lee Sang-wook Head of SHE Innovation Group, Samsung Electro-Mechanics 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics operates an  
emergency situation room 24 7 to monitor  
dangerous facilities and weather conditions  
in real time and has established a complete  
contingency response system by securing  
fire trucks and other emergency response  
equipment.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has devised 13  
scenarios related to the leakage of chemicals,  
fire, and earthquakes and conducts emergency  
drills that involve the prompt identification  
of situations, counter disaster operations,  
evacuation, and other matters to improve the  
response capabilities of all employees. 
In order to prevent infectious diseases  
being spread by business travelers at home  
and abroad, we develop infectious disease  
emergency response manuals and provide  
measures according to danger level-attention,  
caution, alert, and severe, and carry out  
related activities by monitoring the spread of  
food poisoning, influenza,  MERS, HIV AIDS,  
Tuberculosis, Malaria and other infectious  
diseases in real-time based on information  
received by the Korea Center for Disease  
Control   Prevention and Korea Meteorological  
Administration.  
 Emergency Response Capability 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics requires all  
workers accessing worksites to complete  
training on safety compliance before entry to  
the sites to ensure the safety of all employees.  
A monthly health and safety council is held with  
the attendance of business partners stationed  
at sites to continuously discuss issues and  
gather opinions. Joint safety checks are  
conducted each quarter to mitigate risk factors.  
We also operate the Win-Win Cooperation  
Program for in-house and external business  
partners to support voluntary health and safety  
activities by assisting the relevant parties  
acquire certificates in risk assessment as well  
as safety and health management systems  
(KOSHA). We have received Grade A in the  
category for best practices in safety and health  
support from a parent company each year by  
the Ministry of Employment and Labor. 
offices, and R D centers to make a habit of  
looking for unsafe behaviors and insecure  
sites as well as take prompt corrective actions  
whenever necessary. We have established  
and operate a dedicated system that helps  
employees manage the entire process from  
identification of potential risks to improvements  
as well as helping them to access to and share  
the relevant content. We look for and share  
examples of major issues found at certain sites  
that may also apply at other sites every week  
and month. We also establish and distribute  
a casebook of major issues found during  
the year, titled  Recommendations on Cross  
Sectional Deployment  at the end of year. 
 Voluntary Health and Safety System 
Identification of Potential  Risks at Sites 
All employees are engaged in  
activities to discover potential  
risks so that they can identify  
risk factors in the workplace  
and make improvements as  
necessary. We make continuous  
efforts to support employees  
working in manufacturing plants,  
 Safety and Accident  Prevention Activity 
Psychological Test 
Operation of Daily Exclusive Patrol Teams 
Continuous checks refer to detailed inspection  
activities at sites to eradicate risks jeopardizing  
work safety that go beyond existing review  
activities such as various safety assurance  
activities, utility checks and preventive  
activities, to the identification of potential risks. 
Safety management staff inspect key facilities  
such as manufacturing facilities, utility facilities,  
gas equipment, and environmental protection  
facilities daily by using measuring devices  
including thermal imaging devices, endoscope  
cameras, insulation resistance testers, hot  
wire anemometers, and others. Identified  
risks are immediately mitigated or registered  
in the safety environment portal system and  
managed until the improvement activities are  
completed. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics engages in  
various activities to expand a culture of safety  
in the workplace with the aim of establishing  
a global top-level culture of safety by 2019.  
The activities include holding a worksite safety  
UCC contest, voluntary activities by employees  
to find and mitigate potential risks, reflecting  
the outcomes of successful safety objectives  
in the performance evaluation of executives,  
and experience-based safety training for  
employees.  
We evaluate the culture of safety at all sites at  
the same time each year to verify the current  
status of safety management and to further  
improve employee awareness on safety based  
on diverse activities to establish a culture of  
 Safety Culture 
Personal Counseling 
Mental Health 
Training and Programs 
Mobile Counseling 
In 2017, through improvement activities, we  
achieved a  creative stage , which is two steps  
higher compared to the first test conducted in  
2015. It has been maintained until 2018. 
Since 2003, Samsung Electro-Mechanics has  
been operating an in-house counseling center  
to boost the mental health of employees.  
Major Services 
The Mental Health Center provides personal  
counseling and mental health check-up  
services not only for employees but also for  
their immediate family, and results are kept  
confidential, so the services can be used  
without any hesitation. In addition, we develop  
and offer diverse programs including childcare  
for parents, leadership coaching for employees  
in upper management, thematic counseling,  
manufacturing site visits, and training on face- 
to-face communication skills to improve the  
quality of life for employees and their family  
We installed a mediation room within the  
company offices in 2013 and have provided  
mediation courses on an ongoing basis. As  
for highly-stressed executives, we help them  
to improve stress management techniques in  
conjunction with specialized organizations.  
Establishment of Counseling  Infrastructure for Better Access  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics offers support  
through  Mobile 7979 , a mobile counseling  
app, to help employees easily access  
counseling services and share their concerns  
 Mental Health 
Safety Culture in Each Stage 
Safety management is non-existent 
Indifference Passive Systematization Selection Creative 
SAFETY AND HEALTH 
Safety and environmental regulatory compliance requirements are carried out 
Safety management system is internalized 
Dormitory and Cafeteria 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics is making  
efforts to promote welfare benefits and stable  
life of employees housing in the company- 
owned dormitories and guarantee their human  
rights. All facilities in the dormitories are  
clean and safe and employee are provided  
with sufficient living spaces. Also, they are  
managed in accordance with related regulations  
to maintain the safety. Fire evacuation drills  
are conducted twice a year and further efforts  
are made for the safety of employees living  
in the dormitories by maintaining emergency  
response systems such as smoke ventilators  
and automatic fire sprinklers. 
We operate on-site cafeterias to offer healthy  
food services to employees. We detect  
and eliminate safety and health related risk  
factors in advance through safety checks  
and consulting services conducted by Korea  
Industrial Safety Association and support for  
health management by providing cafeteria staff  
with health-related training. We are paying  
full attention to keep cafeteria facilities clean  
and safe by carrying out safety checks and fire  
inspections as well as water quality testing on  
a regular basis. 
whenever and wherever they happen to be.  
 Mobile 7979  provides a wide range of services  
including online psychological testing for the  
diagnosis of one s mental health, psychological  
counseling, and appointments for counseling  
sessions for employees as well as their family  
members. Also, telephone counseling hotlines  
are in operation 24 7 in preparation for those in  
need of emergency help. 
All employees actively participate in the safety and environment related activities 
All members  encourage one  another and develop  a sophisticated  culture of safety 
from all products and complying with global standards. We will continue to contribute to the worldwide  
environmental management to realize corporate growth and protect the earth for future generations. 
we have established a global environmental management system by removing harmful substances  
efforts towards sustainability by making working sites cleaner and safer and enhance planning of  
reduce greenhouse gas emissions and environmental pollution. During the course of  
measures against climate change through eco-friendly technologies and global  
We engage in eco-friendly management activities for sustainable growth to  
providing cutting-edge electronic parts to our customers,  
Environment 
Environmental Management System 
Climate Change Strategy 
Eco-Friendly Operation 
Product Stewardship 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics complies with  
global standards by operating enterprise-wide  
management systems such as ISO 14001   
(environment), ISO 50001 (energy) and  
contributes to protecting the earth and  
environment by carrying out continuous  
improvement activities in areas of  
environmental protection, accident prevention,  
and efficient energy use. 
The CEO has announced principles for the  
management of environmental protection,  
and energy usage, set detailed goals for each  
activity, and shared the company s values with  
all employees for efficient operation of the  
environment, energy management system.  
Such efforts have led to voluntary participation  
by employee and created material outcomes.  
We disclose our activities to stakeholders  
transparently to increase corporate credibility. 
Assessment System 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics conducts an  
assessment for renewal and ex-post facto  
review from external certification agencies  
every 3 years and annually, respectively,  
to verify the continuity, effectiveness,  
and compliance with the environment,  
energy management system. Also, we  
have established and implemented internal  
regulations to monitor and evaluate the  
process of Plan(planning)-Do(execution)- 
Check(confirmation)-Action(improvements). 
Each department regularly conducts  
environmental impact assessments and risk  
assessments each year to identify critical  
hazards and risk factors in the areas of  
environment, and energy, develop detailed  
action plans for improvement, and generate  
outcomes after execution with the aim to abide  
by the energy, environment, and energy polices  
of the company and achieve related objectives. 
The progress and status, as well as  
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 
 ISO 14001 
We operate an efficient energy management system in accordance with global standards 
Implementation Direction 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics is working to  
improve the level of environment, energy  
management by implementing more  
sophisticated operation and management  
systems in areas of climate change response  
(GHG reduction activities), manufacturing  
of eco-friendly products and product  
environmental regulatory responses (green  
purchasing system), strengthening of chemical  
substances management (hazards materials  
management system). This is to respond to  
the compliance challenges posed by safety,  
environment, and energy regulations and  
obligations at home and abroad, and the  
increasing demands of stakeholders. 
We have improved operational efficiency by  
adopting a system for environment, energy  
management, enhance operational standards  
by strengthening related training and support  
activities from company HQ, respond to  
the changing business environment by  
incorporating revised ds such as ISO 14001   
implementation of such programs are  
periodically monitored and evaluated through  
internal reviews (2 times year) and a  
comprehensive report including achievement  
of management system goals, internal and  
external issues, and compliance evaluation is  
delivered to executives. 
We transparently disclose all related activities  
to stakeholders and are dedicated to ultimately  
creating a safe working environment. 
Investment and Expenses   (coverage: consolidated basis, unit: KRW million) 
ENVIRONMENT 
Environment and energy investment 30,331 4,703 30,092 
Environment and energy expenditure 210,321 238,359 268,379 
(environment) into our management system,  
and strive to increase efficiency by integrating  
separate management systems. 
We have made an investment in  
environmental protection to eliminate  
industrial disasters and respond to safety and  
environment regulations at home and abroad  
since 2013.  
Investment is focused on the replacement of  
obsolete facilities to improve waste treatment  
facilities, manage air pollutant emitting  
facilities, strengthen the management of  
waste disposal, reduce energy consumption  
and induce efficiency in energy usage.  
We invest in the enhancement of safe  
environmental facilities and promote the  
installation of new facilities to reinforce the  
management of energy and environmental  
protection at sites.  
We convene a Deliberation Committee that  
thoroughly verifies the purposes, methods and  
improvements in devising investment plans  
to verify the adequacy of investment choices,  
and systematically manage the schedule and  
investment amount needed via an investment  
management system. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics continues  
to monitor and carry out related activities  
encompassing the entire process from  
investment plan to execution of environmental  
facility innovation with the aim to achieve the  
process innovation rate of 90% by 2020. 
 Environment Investment 
2016 2017 2018 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has installed  
optimal air pollution prevention facilities  
to reduce air pollutants and improve the  
atmospheric environment as it pushes for  
the improvement of pollution prevention  
facility efficiency. Every month, we analyze  
air pollutants through external authorized  
agencies and continuously monitor pollution  
levels. In adopting new manufacturing  
processes, we conduct a safe environment  
assessment to review expected pollutants to  
minimize pollutant generation and manage  
emission limit values (ELVs) at 30% below  
statutory standards.  
In addition, we periodically check  
environmental facilities and conduct  
maintenance activities to sustain their optimal  
operation at all times, verify generation of  
new pollutants by carrying out pollution  
concentration analyses on all items in  
advance, and constantly engage in eco- 
friendly investment activities such as the  
immediate repair and replacement of outdated  
facilities. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics is well aware  
of the importance of water resources and  
highlights the resolution of environmental  
issues while fulfilling its corporate social  
responsibilities to protect and sustain water  
resources. 
Failure to secure a sufficient amount of water  
as well as the quality of water resources  
needed for manufacturing can pose a  
severe obstacle to business continuity in  
specific regions by inducing lower production  
capabilities and higher operational costs for  
water treatment.  
Against this backdrop, Samsung Electro-  
Mechanics conducts a risk analysis of water  
resources and makes investments in water  
treatment facilities to maintain internal  
 Air Quality 
 Water Resources 
ECO-FRIENDLY OPERATION 
We implement eco-friendly best practices in their operations 
Programs to Reduce Water Resources  Consumption 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics conducts  
inspections at domestic and global sites to  
standards for water quality management. We  
also establish emergency response plans in  
preparation for unexpected interruptions to  
water supply by securing water storage tanks  
and dual water suppliers.  
For sustainable management of water  
resources, we implement systematic  
monitoring at the corporate level, periodically  
check the current status of water resources  
at global sites, analyze the quantity used and  
monitor key trends and report them to top  
management.  
ECO-FRIENDLY OPERATION 
Average Emission Intensity Compared to Statutory Standards 
2017 2018 2016 
2017 2018 2016 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: ton) 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: %) 
Air Pollution Emissions 
 SOx  Dust  NOx 
 SOx  Dust  NOx 
check their current status and engage in  
activities related to industrial water usage,  
with the aim to reduce water resources  
consumption. Also, we have implemented  
a company-wide facility procurement  
review system to reflect reductions in water  
resources consumption in the design of new  
facilities when purchasing manufacturing  
facilities. We constantly monitor and manage  
the Water Balance from the inflow industrial  
water to disposal of waste water to prevent  
the waste of water resources due to leakage  
in underground water pipes and other causes.  
We continue to engage in activities to reduce  
water consumption by setting new goals at  
each site and putting in place performance  
management goals to control water usage. 
Water Quality 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has set  
its permitted emissions level for water  
pollutants at 30% below statutory standards  
and comprehensively manages the limit by  
maintaining its actual emissions level at below  
10%. Moreover, we establish an environmental  
review system when opening new facilities  
and remove up to 99% of pollutants in high- 
density copper wastewater by using the ion  
exchange technique. 
We strive to improve the quality of discharged  
water and manage pollutants via various  
activities to enhance the environment within  
manufacturing processes such as high- 
density copper wastewater treatment, sludge  
reuse, improving responses to chemicals  
emitted and sludge dehydrators, etc.  
Average Emission Intensity Compared to Statutory Standards 
Water Pollutant Emissions 
 BOD  SS  T-P  COD  T-N 
 BOD  SS  T-P  COD  T-N 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: ton) 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: %) 
We have continually conducted environmental  
impact assessments at places nearby sites  
and worked to reduce the Biochemical Oxygen  
Demand (BOD) concentration level after  
converging the water discharged from our  
sites in Woncheon Richeon by more than 38%.  
Water Usage (coverage: consolidated basis, unit: m3) 
ENVIRONMENT 
Total 19,208,733 21,338,128 22,488,730 
Ground water 1,809,864 2,934,056 3,479,574 
Surface water 2,175,296 2,675,100 2,997,373 
Municipal water 4,500,503 4,265,393 3,273,917 
Recycling rate (%) 14.0 12.5 16.8 
Industrial water 10,723,070 11,463,579 12,737,867 
Re-use water volume 2,688,221 2,658,461 3,787,453 
2016 2017 2018 
Management System 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics develops a list  
of waste products for intensive management  
based on the amount generated and status of  
recycling and establishes improvement plans  
each year and visits sites for inspections every  
quarter to ensure better waste management. 
We study the Waste Control Act and other  
related regulations on a regular basis to reflect  
revisions and amendments and develop  
and implement response measures as  
preemptive approaches before the enactment  
of regulatory changes. In addition, we provide  
a timely response to regulatory compliance  
issues such as the submission of performance  
reports and reporting on changes. 
Waste Reduction 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics conducts  
multifaceted activities such as efforts to  
reduce waste and improve resource efficiency  
during the entire process from procurement  
of raw materials to production. We have also  
developed an internal safety environment  
index and manage related data. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics will continue to  
invest in the upgrade of pollutant treatment  
and management of new technology  
development. 
Recycling rate 
We monitor and manage the amount of waste  
generated and associated recycling rate each  
month to maintain the waste-recycling rate  
at 80% above the target level. We thoroughly  
inspect manufacturing, production, and R D  
facilities with intensive site management  
based on 5-track detailed management  
methods: Proper Items in the Proper Quantity  
at the Proper Place (3P), and through the  
Sorting, Straightening, Shining, Standardizing  
and Sustaining (5S) movement to check  
annual reduction of waste and the status  
of separate garbage collection. We make  
efforts to ensure sites strictly comply with  
the relevant processes, communicate with  
employees to achieve our goals by planning  
and establishing core tasks each year. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics reinforces  
activities to collect and separate waste items  
and considers various options for recycling  
instead of incineration and landfill. We provide  
employee trainings and campaigns to raise  
awareness on separation in disposing of  
waste and plan to achieve the efficiency in  
resources.  
We provide tenders through a fair bidding  
process to select waste transport and  
treatment companies via the Global Infra  
Management System (GIMS) and sign  
contracts with companies that have obtained  
permits to carry out the activities concerned  
from the authorities in charge. The entire  
process of waste generation, transportation,  
and treatment is transparently managed  
through the official treatment system (Allbaro  
System) authorized by the government. 
As for waste treatment companies, an annual  
inspection is carried out through a company  
assessment report before and after signing  
the contract to check on the legitimacy of  
discharged waste treatment. As for new  
tenders, we visit them before the bidding  
process to check on the treatment site  
and associated licensing as well as other  
compliance items. Existing outsourcing  
companies are inspected after the completion  
of contracts. 
We visually and systematically manage waste  
types and items, information on outsourcing  
companies, and other information via the  
Recycling Management System (RMS) and  
calibrate weighing instruments each year to  
eliminate errors in waste weight data and  
ensure accurate transactions in terms of the  
payment to waste treatment companies. 
Improvements on management of designated  
waste are made by renewing section lines  
per item and epoxy floor coating each year  
to prevent leakage in advance. Designated  
waste refers to hazardous substances that  
could harm human health and pollute the  
environment through the soil or air.  
ECO-FRIENDLY OPERATION 
Treatment and Recycling of Waste 
Amount of Waste Generated 
 Ordinary waste  Designated waste 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: ton) 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: ton) 
 Incineration  Landfill  Recycling 
We comply with the storage duration limit of  
designated waste (45 days) and install locking  
devices and trenches on all doors of storage  
units and within the storage containers,  
respectively, for leakage prevention. In  
addition, we have built a response system by  
installing Leak Sensors and CCTVs to ensure  
notification when leakage occurs. 
Persons in charge of designated waste  
treatment must wear chemical protective  
equipment to carry out treatment activities  
and access to those facilities is limited only  
to trained and designated persons to ensure  
designated waste is treated safely. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics engages in  
activities that prioritize procurement of  
products with eco-friendly certification  
including subsidiary materials, electronic  
items, and furniture after it signed a voluntary  
agreement with the government on green  
procurement. We will continue to procure  
green products to continually reduce carbon  
emissions. 
Eco-Friendly Packaging 
The packaging design division of Samsung  
Electro-Mechanics actively promotes activities  
to reduce both packaging costs and the use of  
packaging materials by expanding reuse and  
recycle of packaging with packaging design  
that curbs the use of disposable materials  
for both product packaging for customers  
and packaging for transportation within the  
company and among overseas subsidiaries. 
 Eco-Friendly Procurement 
Recycling of packaging 
8.73 2.75 2.84 5.84 
Improvement in packaging  
Recycling of Packaging Material 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics works to  
provide quality packaging materials that meet  
customer demands based on status analysis  
and observation in collaboration with users.  
We strive to save resources by curbing the  
use of disposable packaging materials and  
promoting their reuse and recycling. Such  
efforts have been expanded not only to client  
companies purchasing our products, but  
also to raw material suppliers and packaging  
materials used for transportation among  
overseas subsidiaries. 
techniques 
Total Cost Savings 20.1 
 The Ministry of Environment has designated corporations which  
contribute to environmental improvement through green management  
activities as green companies. Their activities include the implementation of  
a corporate environmental management system, reduction of pollutants and  
the conservation of resources and energy. As of 2018, 139 companies were  
selected as green companies. As president of the Green Company  
Council (GCC), Samsung Electro-Mechanics has played a bridging role  
between the government and companies and demonstrated an exemplary  
level of environmental management.  
Lee Il-Gyu Head of Environmental Management office, Korea Environmental Industry   Technology Institute 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: KRW 100 million) 
Packaging Materials 
ENVIRONMENT 
Changes in packaging materials  
Eco-Friendly Procurement Records 
GHG reduction effects (ton) 1,004 1,598 3,894 
Economic benefits (KRW million) 246 391 941 
Amount of procurement (KRW million) 2,245 1,609 5,156 
(for shipment process) 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics signed the  
 Joint Declaration on the Conservation of  
Bio-Diversity and Sustainable Use  with  
a government agency in 2013. We have  
initiated activities including the construction  
of an ecological park near company sites  
in collaboration with a government agency,  
removal of external flora and fauna that disturb  
the native ecosystem and more. We also  
manage water quality indicators such as COD,  
BOD, and SS in water discharged from our  
sites that may negatively affect the aquatic  
ecosystem. 
 Biodiversity 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: ton, KRW million) 
(for business partners shipment) 
2016 2017 2018 
Packaging standardization 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has identified  
GHG emission sources and established and  
operated a GHG emissions inventory to play  
a leading role in reducing carbon emissions to  
minimize the impact of climate change and  
to manage business risks and uncertainties.  
We calculate GHG emissions from domestic  
each month and disclose emissions data  
annually. We identify and manage the amount  
of emissions (Scope 3) in the corporate  
value chain an addition to direct and indirect  
emissions to promote GHG reduction  
activities. 
Voluntary Reduction Targets 
We have established a mid-term strategy  
for GHG emissions reduction which aims to  
reduce GHG emissions (Scope 1 and Scope  
2) compared to sales from 16.2 tCO2e KRW  
million in 2025 (a reduction of 7%). We will  
make efforts to achieve the GHG emissions  
reduction target through energy savings,  
efficient operation of production facilities and  
utilities, and replacement of key facilities with  
more efficient ones. 
100 million in 2014 to 15.1 tCO2e KRW 100  
Carbon Risk Management Process 
    Identifying risk level and financial impact 
      Preemptive responses to risks and  
    Identifying physical and regulatory risks 
Opportunities 
    Identifying ETS markets and   
  Carbon Management and   Emissions Management 
strengthening management 
opportunities to enhance product   
eco-friendliness 
Identification of Risks and  Opportunities 
We preemptively respond to global climate change issues to pursue climate competitiveness 
CLIMATE CHANGE STRATEGY 
    Establishment of a GHG inventory 
     Emission source management and  
    Establishment of a GHG climate   
verification 
internal verification, external   
change system 
Establishment of GHG   Management System 
The scope of GHG calculation and verification  
covers production bases, warehouses,  
research centers and sales offices in each  
region. Among them, the scope included in  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics s emissions  
covers production subsidiaries whose  
buildings are owned by   
Samsung Electro-Mechanics in accordance  
with the notice from the Ministry of  
Environment. We report GHG emissions from  
buildings we use on lease contracts in Korea,  
which are included in the company-wide  
emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2). 
 GHG Calculation 
CLIMATE CHANGE STRATEGY 
GHG Emissions (coverage: consolidated basis, unit: tCO2e) 
Carbon intensity (tCO2e sales(KRW 100 million)) 16.9 16.6 15.6 
Total 1,021,836 1,135,721 1,276,422 
Scope 2 957,265 1,076,208 1,210,284 
Scope 1 64,571 59,513 66,138 
     Planning and implementing 3-year   
     Periodic monitoring of the state of  
     Estimation of emissions intensity   
Responding to Climate Change 
GHG emissions reduction activities 
based on additional lines and   
productivity increases 
reduction activities 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics s IT system for  
climate change (GHG inventory).  
The verification standards include the  
Operational Guidelines on the GHG and  
Energy Target Management System under the  
Ministry of Environment, the IPCC Guidelines:  
2006, ISO14064-1 3 and the WRI WBCSD  
Scope 3 Guidelines. The data is a compilation  
of activity data regarding the amount of  
energy used, entered by each site along with  
supporting materials (procurement-based  
documents including receipts and invoices)  
submitted through   
2016 2017 2018 
     Reporting on company-wide GHG  
    Operation of a company-wide   
emissions status to executives 
Climate Strategy Committee 
Internal Reporting 
number of business trips taken by employees  
was reduced by installing a global video  
conferencing system, which reduced the GHG  
emissions by 1,887 tCO2e as of 2017. 
GHG Reduction Performance (coverage: consolidated basis, unit: MWh, kNm3, tCO2e) 
Calculations of Emissions and Social  Activities for Carbon Reduction 
The scope of GHG emissions has been  
extended to include direct (Scope 1) and  
indirect (Scope 2) emissions as well as other  
indirect (Scope 3) emissions throughout  
the entire value chain inclusive of suppliers,  
logistics, business trips and waste. The  
amount of other indirect GHG emissions was  
calculated based on WRI WBCSD Guidelines  
and has acquired third-party verification. 
The amount of Scope 3 released in 2017  
amounts to 270,012 tCO2e. The emissions  
waste (7,839 tCO2e), business trips (5,811  
were calculated based on 12 items including  
transport and logistics (165,843 tCO2e),  
tCO2e), and commuting (11,702 tCO2e). The  
Energy Electricity(MWh) 188,528 175,414 76,750 
Requests from stakeholders  such as evaluation agencies  and customers to reveal  carbon information via CDP  and DJSI 
Damage to facilities due to  climate abnormalities  (typhoons, strong storms  and floods, heavy snow, etc.)  Challenges in securing water  resources due to droughts 
GHG and Energy target  management scheme,  emissions trading, and  disclosure of emissions, 
Sub total(tCO2e) 94,628 88,502 45,822 
Eco-friendly products(tCO2e) 1,004 1,598 3,894 
LNG(tCO2e) 5,723 2,847 4,256 
Video conferencing(tCO2e) 2,855 2,271 1,887 
LNG(kNm 3) 2,587 1,287 1,924 
Electricity(tCO2e) 87,901 81,786 35,785 
Responding to the information  needs of external institutions  customers 
Putting in place monitoring of  laws, GHG inventory and an  energy management system, 
Establishing a business  continuity system,  strengthening the climate  abnormality monitoring system,  reinforcing training on response  scenarios by disaster type 
Risks Opportunities 
2016 2017 2018 
Climate Change Risks and Opportunities 
Stable implementation of the  emissions trading scheme  and achievement of goal 
CDP Platinum Club  and continuous inclusion in  the DJSI World Index 
Attaining certification on  business continuity  management (ISO 22301),  preventing production losses  and damage by preparing for  power cuts outages 
 Samsung Electro-Mechanics, which had gained admission to  
the Platinum Club of the CDP Hall of Fame, has established  
a solid carbon management system, strived to reduce GHG emissions,  
and fully disclosed related outcomes to stakeholders. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics is a leading company in responding to 
GHG and demonstrates outstanding competitiveness in terms of 
climate change management.  
Lee Jong-Oh Director General, Korea Sustainability Investing Forum 
ENVIRONMENT 
Requests from stakeholders  to disclose GHG emissions  
Reducing product-based  carbon emissions and  enhancing the corporate  image in relation to carbon  efficiency 
Ushering in the GHG  emissions trading market 
Scope 3 GHG Emissions  
Purchased Goods   Services 37,253 
Capital Goods 2,345 
Fuel and Energy Related Activities Not  Included in Scope 1 or 2 11,170 
Transportation   Distribution (Upstream) 165,843 
Waste Disposal 7,839 
Business Travel 5,811 
Employee Commuting 11,702 
Leased Assets (Upstream)  629 
Processing of Product  154 
Use of Product   4,102 
Disposal of Product 64 
Investment 23,098 
Total 270,012 
Carbon reduction labor  certification of products and  development of power saving  products 
Setting mid- and long-term  reduction goals and operating  a Company-wide Climate  Strategy Committee 
Implementing reductions by  linking GHG and energy  
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: tCO2e) 
Establishing the basis to lower  the cost of implementing laws  and realizing profits via ETS 
Sales increase by responding to demands by client companies for the development of  low-carbon products 
Enhancing production  efficiency by reducing GHG  and saving energy 
Emissions by GHG Substance (coverage: consolidated basis, unit: tCO2e) 
Korea s Emissions Trading Scheme 
In 2005, Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
established a GHG inventory of all sites and  
has managed GHG emissions systematically  
since then. We have attained GHG emissions  
reduction targets to comply with the  
Target Management Scheme as one of the  
companies selected for inclusion in the  
scheme and also participated in the Emissions  
Trading Scheme (ETS) of the Korean  
government which has been up and running  
since 2015. 
We are engaged in GHG reduction activities  
at each business site and manage factors  
affecting changes in emissions. In order to  
ensure a dynamic response to the ETS, we  
have taken part in pilot projects on emissions  
trading run by the Ministry of Environment and  
the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy.  
We also share GHG trends and ETS market  
information with related departments within  
the company on a regular basis and convene  
the Climate Strategy Committee to determine  
whether to purchase carbon credits in the  
CH4 119 118 127 
SF6 215 22 215 
PFCs 5,164 516 5,321 
N2O 717 709 783 
Total 1,021,836 1,135,721 1,276,422 
CO2 1,015,621 1,134,356 1,269,975 
 Response Measures to GHG 
2016 2017 2018 
The burden imposed on companies related  
to GHG reductions further increases as  
the implementation of phase 2 of the ETS  
(2018 2020) approaches. To prepare for  
this, we have established annual reduction  
targets and 3-year GHG reduction tasks and  
implemented measures to save energy from  
all sources used by all sites in the product  
manufacturing process. In addition, we are  
developing mid- to long-term GHG reduction  
goals, reflecting them in our annual business  
plans, and monitoring performance results. 
CLIMATE CHANGE STRATEGY 
Expansion of Overseas Emissions  Management System 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics operates  
overseas subsidiaries in China, Vietnam,  
Thailand, the Philippines, and others.  
Overseas GHG emissions make up about  
66% of the company s total emissions.  
The Chinese government announced that  
it will implement a nation-wide emissions  
trading scheme starting with power compa- 
nies by the end of 2017. As such, Samsung  
Electro-Mechanics shares related trends on a  
regular basis and plans to establish response  
organizations and systems for each subsidiary  
as the ETS in China is applied to all industries.  
Also, the potential emissions increase along  
with construction of additional overseas  
factories are provided to related departments  
in advance to systematically identify GHG  
emissions from the start of building lines. 
Activities to Improve and Reduce Energy 
Amount of Energy Consumption (coverage: consolidated basis, unit: MWh) 
The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a not- 
for-profit charity that requests the largest  
public companies of each country submit their  
responses to global environmental issues and  
related management information on behalf of  
global financial and investment institutions.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has established  
the GHG inventory and continuously disclosed  
GHG-related information. After entering the  
Gold Club of Carbon Management Hall of  
Fame in 2014, Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
has maintained its second year in the Platinum  
Club of Hall of Fame. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics continues to  
carry out company-wide energy reduction  
activities through productivity increases and  
the enhancement of cost competitiveness  
with the participation of all employees by  
aligning annual targets based on the energy  
management system. 
Cases with improvement made(cases) 667 575 460 
Electric power consumption 1,629,884 1,820,516 2,033,290 
Amount saved(KRW 100 million) 174 181 125 
LNG 275,568 259,821 259,462 
Diesel 13,321 20,636 18,623 
Gasoline 4,920 4,550 3,948 
Kerosene 0 0 0 
LPG 19,471 24,258 26,463 
Purchased steam 123,866 176,424 205,464 
Total 2,067,030 2,306,205 2,547,250 
 Response to CDP 
 (coverage: consolidated basis, unit: cases, KRW 100 million) 
2016 2017 2018 
2016 2017 2018 
Energy Target Management and  Reduction Activities 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has been  
carrying out systematic energy reduction  
activities led by the Bureau of Energy, an  
energy management-exclusive unit, for over  
10 years.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has been making  
energy saving efforts in production processes  
by shifting its focus from the supply side to  
the demand side. 
The company aims to adopt highly efficient  
facilities and construction methods for saving  
energy when constructing new buildings and  
continues to engage in activities to eliminate  
energy wastage by adopting energy saving  
facilities when building facilities through  
verifications of energy specifications. 
ENVIRONMENT 
High-Efficiency Energy Equipment and  New and Renewable Energies 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has replaced all  
lights with LEDs within the Suwon, Sejong,  
and Busan plants and continues to replace  
lights with LEDs, highly efficient energy  
devices, at all sites.  
We are also looking to adopt highly-efficient  
energy devices during construction of new  
buildings and expansions of facilities at  
existing sites. Each year, we consider the  
adoption of new and renewable energies such  
as outdoor solar lights, solar water heaters,  
and daylighting systems. 
In April 2016, we formed dedicated energy  
organizations within each business division  
and have continued to discover sites that  
waste energy in conjunction with external  
specialists. We have also implemented energy  
saving activities through in-depth analyses of  
energy reduction efforts such as the use of  
utilities with standard specifications within the  
same facilities.  
In addition, expert groups at each site conduct  
cross-checks to verify the effects of energy  
saving activities with the aim to increase  
credibility as we are making continuous efforts  
to expand energy reduction technologies  
with cross-sectional deployment via  
technology exchanges. The energy use target  
achievement rate has reflected in executive  
performance evaluations since 2016. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics conducts  
preliminary reviews from the research and  
development stage and preemptively prevents  
the use of hazardous substances in products. 
We check to see if hazardous substances in  
materials are used to manufacture products  
in each R D task during the verification stage  
to check the completeness of product design  
and implementation in the middle of the  
development and deliberation stage. By doing  
so, we strictly restrict the use of materials  
containing hazardous substances. 
In order to respond to strengthened  
international environmental regulations  
such as the EU Restriction of Hazardous  
Substances (RoHS) Directive for electrical and  
electronic equipment and the Registration,  
Evaluation, Authorization   Restriction of  
Chemicals (REACH) and corporate social  
responsibilities, Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
voluntarily restricts the use of hazardous  
substances in products and raw materials  
and replaces them with alternate materials to  
provide eco-friendly products to customers. 
To meet the demands of various clients  
for eco-friendly products, we investigate  
policies and regulations on the management  
of hazardous materials used by major global  
customers more than once a year, which are  
reflected in the policies of   
Samsung Electro-Mechanics.  
  Reviewing Hazardous Substances   in Products as an R D Task 
 Product Environmental Policy 
We are complying with policies for the management of hazardous materials within products required by our customers and the specified standards of each country 
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics voluntarily  
manages key chemicals that could harm  
human health and the environment such as  
halogen, antimony, and beryllium in addition  
to substances restricted by international  
environmental regulations such as the 10  
substances restricted by the EU RoHS and  
the REACH substances of very high concern  
In order to respond to continued increases  
in the REACH SVHC restricted substances,  
we monitor the use of newly added SVHC  
restricted substances in our raw materials  
more than once per 6 months and are making  
efforts to replace existing raw materials  
with new ones that have a lower level of  
environmental risk. 
We monitored the policies on hazardous  
substances of our 25 major global customers  
and reinforced our standards on certain items  
such as lead, cadmium, and beryllium in 2017.  
As regulations on 4 types of phthalate (DEHP,  
BBP, DBP and DIBP) instituted by the EU  
RoHS will take effect from July 2019, we had  
a preemptive response by making a detailed  
analysis about 4 types of phthalate mandatory.  
  Management of Hazardous   Materials in the Environment 
6 types of ROHS  (Pb, Cd, Cr6 , Hg, PBB , PBD E) 
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 
2 types of Halogen (Br, CI) 
Antimony (Sb) 
Strengthening of Hazardous Substance Management 
Green Purchasing System 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics operates a green  
purchasing system to systematically manage  
hazardous substances in products. All of the  
company s raw material suppliers are required  
to prove that they comply with our standards  
by submitting information on raw materials,  
a Material Safety Data Sheet, and a score  
statement based on the precise analysis of  
hazardous substances issued by a certified  
We investigate the status of restricted  
substances, efficiently respond to product  
information requests from customers, and  
provide eco-friendly products to customers,  
which contain no prohibited materials, by  
using the database on substances contained  
in raw materials amassed via the green  
purchasing system. 
 System Operation 
6 types of ROHS  (Pb, Cd, Cr6 , Hg, PBB , PBD E) 
2 types of Halogen (Br, CI) 
4 types of phthalate   BBP, DBP , DIBP , DEHP 
Antimony (Sb) 
Material Analysis System 
We run a  material analysis system  to analyze  
and manage hazardous materials, while  
managing hazardous material information for  
raw materials provided by suppliers. 
Simple analysis is conducted for seven items  
using our analytical instruments periodically  
for all raw materials coming in: Pb (lead),  
Cd (cadmium), Cr 6  (hexavalent chromium),  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics convenes  
Information Exchange Meetings at least once  
every 2 months led by the Safe Environment  
Team, collecting opinions from employees in  
related departments on procurement, quality,  
development and other matters. In 2018, the  
Information Exchange Meetings on product  
environmental impact was held 4 times. The  
meeting serves as a communication channel  
to develop internal policies by identifying  
regulatory trends in the EU, US,  
China, and other key regions and  
countries and by catering to the  
product environmental needs of  
global customers. 
Regular training takes place  
for hazardous substance  
management by sector  
every year to strengthen the  
competencies of employees in  
product environmental impact  
related departments.  
Hg (mercury), Br (bromine), Cl (chlorine), Sb  
(antimony). We also verify if they contain  
hazardous substances through outside  
certified analysis bodies, if necessary, and  
manage the results through the system. 
  Reinforcement of Product  Environmental Response   Systems and Expertise 
Development Purchase Quality Safety Environment 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics continues to  
ensure carbon footprint certification for its  
products. The carbon footprint certification  
is provided based on the calculation of GHG  
emissions generated in the entire product  
As of 2017, employees in charge of  
approval of materials by division attended  
the training on the establishment of an  
eco-friendly supply chain based on our  
product environmental impact policies and  
management of hazardous substances in raw  
materials while 55 employees in charge of  
development, quality, sales were trained on  
the product environmental impact policies  
of major global customers and measures to  
systematically manage hazardous substances  
via eco-friendly product design. In addition,  
we provide intensive training programs on  
product environmental impact by inviting  
lecturers from outside the company or by  
visiting external agencies once per year. For  
employees responsible for the analysis of  
hazardous substances, we train them on the  
operation of equipment and instruments at  
least once every 6 months to enhance the  
reliability of data measured. 
Distribution of  the product environment  management standard to  business partners 
Information provision to  related departments of  the hazardous material  managements 
  Environmental Labelling and   Declarations 
Review on materials  without hazardous  substances 
Design (Design eco-friendly  products) 
Hazardous Substance Management Process 
ENVIRONMENT 
Submission of the  information of raw material  substances and score  statement on precise analysis  of hazardous substances by  business partners 
(Part approval) Agreement  on the result of hazardous  material reviews 
(Part approval)   Approval of hazardous  material review 
Approval (Prior eco-friendliness review) 
Encouragement of business  partners to submit the  information of raw material  substances and score  statement 
Production (inspection of hazardous  substances in raw materials) 
Hazardous substance  sampling of warehousing  materials 
eco-friendliness. 
lifecycle beginning with the extraction of  
raw materials, production, distribution, and  
disposal through Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). 
Also, we are operating self-declared  
environmental claims (Type II environmental  
labeling) in order to respond to customer  
demands to disclose environment related  
information and improve eco-friendliness of  
our products. 
In 2010, Samsung Electro-Mechanics acquired  
Environmental Product Declaration certification  
(for carbon emissions) for the first time as  
an MLCC company and the certification has  
expanded to include 3 product lines including  
HDI and BGA. As a result, Samsung Electro- 
Mechanics obtained 6 certificates in total  
including one for low carbon certification.  
In 2016, we newly acquired certifications  
for MLCCs and were able to confirm carbon  
emissions reduction per unit weight and  
volume compared to existing products  
that had already obtained the certificates.  
We will continue to expand the acquisition  
of Environmental Product Declaration  
certifications to satisfy the demands of various  
stakeholders and to enhance product   
Operation of green  purchase system 
Shipment (inspection of hazardous substances in products) 
Hazardous substance  sampling of release  products 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics provides regular  
training on product environmental impact for  
business partners to enhance their regulatory  
competencies in relation to environmental  
hazards and product eco-friendliness.  
In 2018, we requried submission of detailed  
analysis report about 4 types of phthalate to  
all suppliers. Through this, we responded to  
global regulations in advance. We also held a  
presentation on international environmental  
regulations, product environment policy trends  
of major global companies, and effective  
countermeasures with attendance of 101 raw  
material suppliers in Korea. 
We will continue to identify internal and external  
issues related to product environmental impact  
regulations and customer needs, develop  
internal policies, and distribute them to business  
partners to enhance employee competencies  
at our partners and establish an eco-friendly  
supply chain. 
  Product Environmental Impact   Assurance for Suppliers 
   Provision of information  MSDS, warning labels  Warranty Hazardous  substance analysis  report, etc. 
Basic areas of chemicals management  (ex: chemical substance information, inventory,   and chemical treatment facilities) 
   Supplies:   Imposing Code    Raw materials, MRO    Non-suppliers:   Imposing no Code     Samples, etc.     Pre review import  declaration, etc. 
Warehousing  (import,  manufacturing) 
Preemptive Safety Assessment Process 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics conducts  
preemptive safety assessment on all  
chemicals used in the company by  
establishing a system for managing them.  
We actively respond to domestic regulations  
including the Chemicals Control Act, the  
Act on the Registration and Evaluation  
of Chemicals and the Safety Control of  
Dangerous Substances Act. 
Since 2013, Samsung Electro-Mechanics has  
established and operated a comprehensive  
management system (CMS) within the  
company based on the lifecycle of chemical  
substances for regulatory compliance and safe  
management of chemical substances to meet  
the increase in internal and external risks such  
as changing attitudes toward chemicals and  
reinforced regulations. All incoming chemical  
substances need to be approved via the CMS  
(safety assessment) before being used in the  
manufacturing process. 
The purpose of the CMS is to comply with  
policies used by global companies and global  
and domestic regulations that are expected  
to demand more detailed management of  
chemical substances, and to secure employee  
safety when handling those substances. 
 Preemptive Safety Assessment 
Standard information, regulation DB 
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 
   Accident prevention  (facilities management)    Accident mitigation  (contingency response)    Management of the  amount used 
Use  (stocking storage  sites, on-site) 
Extended areas of chemicals management  (ex: employee exposure, safety disaster prevention, and risks) 
   Management of ordinary  and designated waste    Investigation of the  amount disposed 
Disposal  (waste) Customer 
Management of Regulated Material  Grades 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics devised a  
plan for prior management of materials that  
are harmful to the human body and made  
a list of restricted materials for handling,  
by managing chemicals handled inside the  
company by grade. A process has been  
established in the introduction stage to  
prevent the reckless use of such chemicals.  
Newly adopted Carcinogenic, Mutagenic and  
Reprotoxic (CMR) materials are managed by  
carrying out an approval process. As such,  
we block exposure by establishing and  
implementing countermeasures depending  
on risk levels, while conducting chemical  
substance risk assessments. In addition, we  
are making efforts to replace and reduce the  
use of materials with higher risk grades by  
establishing replacement and reduction plans  
based on the results of risk assessments. 
Safety Management for Facilities  Handling Chemicals 
We conduct self-investigations on the current  
status of facility protection (automation,  
sealing, and local exhaust ventilation) as well  
as inspections on the chemical substance  
treatment facilities for the Manufacturing  
and R D Divisions and observe protective  
measures through periodic performance  
 Chemicals Management Process 
   Provision of information  Hazardous chemicals in  product Warranty, etc. 
We will continue to make efforts to protect shareholder rights and pursue a corporate governance  
The journey to sustainable growth starts with sound and transparent corporate management.  
our top priority is the enhancement of corporate transparency and responsible management. 
As a leading innovative player that spearheads the global electronic component industry,  
structure ensuring a fair and transparent decision-making process with a sense of  
accountability and the expertise of our board of directors. 
Shareholders 
Management Performance  
Ethical Management 
Communication 
Governance 
Status of Shareholders (coverage: consolidated basis, unit: no. of stocks ,%) 
The total number of shares issued by  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics is 74,693,696  
common stocks (securities that do carry  
voting rights) and 2,906,984 preferred stocks  
(securities that have no voting rights) as of  
today. Among them, there are 72,693,696  
common stocks with voting rights excluding  
preferred stocks and the ones of which  
voting rights are limited in accordance with  
related regulations. As of the end of 2018,  
the majority shareholder of Samsung Electro- 
Mechanics is Samsung Electronics with  
17,693,084 shares or 23.7% of the total. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics manages its  
business led by a board of directors. We  
have established a process for appointing  
the chairman of the Board of Directors as  
an outside director for balanced promotion  
of shareholders  interests and promoted a  
governance structure that can guarantee  
appropriate and transparent decision-making.  
The board of directors and CEO cooperate  
with each other, share information and  
responsibilities, and are committed to the  
development and innovation of Samsung  
Electro-Mechanics. 
Total 74,693,696 100.0 2,906,984 100.0 77,600,680 100.0 
Treasury stock  2,000,000  2.7 0.0 0.0  2,000,000  2.6 
Samsung Electronics  17,693,084  23.7 0.0 0.0  17,693,084  22.8 
Foreigners  13,529,297  18.1  430,674  14.8  13,959,971  18.0 
Institutions  17,780,198  23.8  805,805  27.7  18,586,003  24.0 
Individuals  23,691,117  31.7  1,670,505  57.5  25,361,622  32.7 
 The Total Number of Shares 
  Board of Directors-Centered   Management 
Number of stocks Percentage Number of stocks Percentage Number of stocks Percentage 
We are actively engaging in on-site management based on the principle of checks and balances 
Common Stocks  Preferred Stocks Total 
GOVERNANCE 
Board members receive copies of meeting  
agenda and related information at least 5 days  
prior to committee meetings under the board  
in order to review the agenda sufficiently. Key  
agenda items of material important to the  
company such as major strategic investments  
are reported to the board in advance and  
directors provide feedback after discussions.  
The items discussed are decided at a separate  
board of directors  meeting. 
Board of directors  meetings of Samsung  
Electro-Mechanics were held 8 times in 2018  
and 19 agenda items including the appointment  
of the chairman of the board of directors,  
quarterly results and forecasts, and compliance  
activities were approved. The attendance rate  
of external directors is 98% at all meetings  
including the Audit Committee, the Internal  
Transactions Committee, and the Compensation  
Committee. In the meantime, the attendance  
  Operations of the Board of   Directors 
Audit Committee Internal Transactions Committee 
SHAREHOLDERS 
President   and CEO Board of  Directors General  Meeting 
Operating System 
External Director Candidate Recommendation Committee 
Establishment of a Management Plan 
The board of directors periodically review the  
company s short, medium and long-term  
strategies each quarter. The board of directors  
establishes directions for sustainable growth  
through active and in-depth discussions  
based on internal and external environmental  
conditions surrounding each business  
unit including modules, components, and  
substrates. Management issues, results, and  
future plans for subsidiaries are reported to  
the directors along with the quarterly release  
of the performance management report so  
that directors can comprehensively review the  
management status of the company. 
Promoting a Culture of Strategy Meetings 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics holds strategic  
meetings with attendance by CEO, key  
executive managers, and external directors  
to help management understand and discuss  
major management issues. Not only primary  
issues related to each business unit, but also  
electronic component industry trends and  
other subjects are additionally selected for  
open discussions during the meetings. In  
2018, we had an in-depth discussion on our  
mid- and long-term business strategy and  
the global economic outlook, including trade  
war and raising interest rates. 
rate of external directors was 100% at  
all meetings including those of the Audit  
Committee, Internal Transactions Committee,  
Compensation Committee, and others.  
Management Committee Compensation Committee 
Directors of Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
are making efforts to practice on-site  
management by holding board of directors   
meetings on-site by visiting key sites at home  
and abroad each year. In 2018, the 7th board  
of directors  meeting was held in Busan plant,  
and directors actively practiced field-oriented  
management by identifying the management  
status of the plant and inspecting production  
processes of major products. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics discloses the  
status of board of directors  meetings and  
participation rates over the course of the year  
in its business reports and conducts internal  
assessments on the composition, functions,  
and responsibilities of the board to reflect the  
results in the operational plan of the board  
for further development. The Compensation  
Committee thoroughly reviews the limits on  
director pay in advance in order to provide  
them with fair levels of compensation and  
final decisions are made after the board of  
directors  meetings and the general meeting  
of shareholders. Corporate rules are in place  
to provide performance-based incentives  
based on performance for a specific period of  
time, to all executives in key roles in corporate  
management.  
Payment of incentives based on long-term  
performance is part of a compensation system  
for performance aligned with corporate  
management performance. More specifically,  
the system consists of an incentive-paying  
scheme for 3 years based on the results of  
corporate performance during the period  
including Return On Equity (ROE), earning  
per share and pre-tax earnings. The result is  
calculated within the payment cap determined  
by the general meeting of shareholders and  
paid in installments over 3 years. This paves  
the way for compensation based on the  
performance of executives and management  
activities over the long term. The provision of  
long-term incentives may be cancelled or the  
total amount provided to executives may be  
reduced if their actions result in a major loss  
for corporate management during the period  
of performance evaluation and payment. 
  Performance Evaluation and   Compensation of Board Members 
  On-site Management  
The board consists of 7 directors including 4  
independent external directors and 3 internal  
directors to keep executives in check with  
resolutions endorsed by external directors.  
We also appoint one female director to pursue  
diversity within the board of directors.  
Within the board, 5 committees are in  
operation and all members of the Audit  
Committee and Internal Transactions  
Committee are appointment from among  
external directors to promote transparent  
financial management and fair transactions.  
 A sound and transparent governance structure positively contributes to 
expanding the sustainability of corporate social responsibility activities and 
enhances the company s value. 
Over the last few years, Samsung Electro-Mechanics has worked to protect  
shareholders  rights and efficiently manage its board of directors as well  
as improve its governance structure through regular communication with  
investors, and the company s tireless efforts have been recognized by the  
market. The company will continue to strengthen the independence and  
internal controls within Samsung Electro-Mechanics to establish a leading 
governance structure, serving as an example for other companies.  
Yun Jin-soo Chief of Analysis Division, Korea Corporate Governance Service 
 Composition of Board of Directors 
Domestic TOP 5 (coverage: consolidated basis, unit: no. of stocks ,%) 
Overseas TOP 5  (coverage: consolidated basis, unit: no. of stocks ,%) 
GOVERNANCE 
Samsung Electronics 17,693,084 23.7 
CREDIT SUISSE 771,450 1.0 
BLACKROCK 711,272 1.0 
GOLDMAN SACHS 692,952 0.9 
MORGAN STANLEY 646,681 0.9 
PEOPLES BANK OF CHINA 616,855 0.8 
National Pension Service  8,103,615 10.8 
Korea Investment Trust  872,594 1.2 
Mirae Asset Global Investments 542,032 0.7 
Samsung Asset Management  426,441 0.6 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has one  
subsidiary in Korea and 14 subsidiaries and  
one affiliate overseas. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics emphasizes  
both independence among shareholders,  
board of directors, and top executives and  
organic cooperation among these groups.  
Shareholders appoint external directors, and  
the appointed directors keep top executives  
in check to maximize the interests of  
shareholders and ensure transparency. To that  
end, we appointed Audit Committee Chairman  
Kwon Tae-Kyun as the chairman of the board.  
We strive to strengthen the principle of  
checks and balances for corporate governance  
by paving the way for the appointment of  
an upright and competent director as the  
chairman of the board since 2016. 
 Status of Subsidiaries 
Number of stocks Percentage 
Number of stocks Percentage 
  Members: Choe Hyun-Cha, Kwon Tae-Kyun, Kim Yong-Kyun 
Internal Transactions Committee 
   Goals and Objectives: The committee was established to enhance the transparency of internal  
  Members: Choe Hyun-Cha, Kwon Tae-Kyun, Kim Yong-Kyun 
External Director Candidate Recommendation Committee 
   Goals and Objectives: The committee was established to consolidate fairness and   
  Members: Kwon Tae-Kyun, Yoo Ji-Beom, Kim Yong-Kyun, Lee Yun-Tae, Lee Byoung-Jun 
Audit Committee    Goals and Objectives: The committee was established to evaluate and improve the business  
implements, and concludes internal auditing plans, as well as takes follow-up measures and  
proposes measures for improvement.  
transactions among subsidiary companies. It examines internal transaction reports, deliberates,  
makes decisions, issues orders, reports on issues, and proposes rectification measures.  
independence in appointing external director candidates pursuant to relevant laws.   
It recommends external director candidates. 
achievements of the comprehensive corporate internal control system. It draws up,   
Internal Directors External Directors 
Lee Yun-Tae 
First appointment date: Mar 13, 2015 
Most recent period of service: Mar 23, 2018   Mar 22, 2021 
Years of service: 4 years 
Position: Internal Director, CEO 
Work experience:  PhD from KAIST in Electrical Engineering,  
Current:  Management Committee,   
Hur Kang-Heon 
First appointment date: Mar 23, 2018 
Most recent period of service: Mar 23, 2018   Mar 22, 2021 
Years of service: 1 year 
Position: Internal Director, Executive Vice President 
Work experience:  PhD in Metallurgical Engineering from Seoul  
Current: Management Committee 
Lee Byoung-Jun 
First appointment date: Mar 23, 2018 
Most recent period of service: Mar 23, 2018   Mar 22, 2021 
Years of service: 1 year 
Position: Internal Director, CFO 
Work experience:  Head of Samsung Display Business  
Current:  External Director Candidate Recommendation  
External Director Candidate Recommendation 
Compensation Committee 
Committee, Management Committee,   
General Manager of Samsung Display LCD  
R D Office (Vice President)  
National University 
Operation Group (Managing Director) 
SHAREHOLDERS 
Management Committee 
   Goals and Objectives: The committee was established to enhance the efficient  
  Members: Lee Yun-Tae, Hur Kang-Heon, Lee Byoung-Jun 
Compensation Committee  
   Goals and Objectives: The committee was established to design, operate, as well as  
  Members: Kwon Tae-Kyun , Kim Yong-Kyun, Lee Byoung-Jun 
management of the Board of Directors and is entrusted by the board to decide  
on matters related to the company s overall business management, financial  
management, and major issues, except for items decided on by the board pursuant  
to the relevant laws and articles of association. 
decide pay and other matters related to the performance compensation system for  
Current:  External Director Candidate Recommendation Committee,  
Current: Audit Committee, Internal Transaction Committ 
Current: External Director Candidate Recommendation Committee 
Kwon Tae-Kyun 
First appointment date: Mar 14, 2014 
Most recent period of service: Mar 24, 2017   Mar 23, 2020 
Years of service: 5 years 
Position: External Director, Chairman of the Board of Directors 
Work experience:  Public Procurement Service Administrator,   
Choe Hyun-Cha 
First appointment date: Mar 14, 2014 
Most recent period of service: Mar 24, 2017   Mar 23, 2020 
Years of service: 5 years 
Position: External Director 
Work experience:  Professor at Seoul National University,   
Yoo Ji-Beom 
First appointment date: Mar 24, 2017 
Most recent period of service: Mar 24, 2017   Mar 23, 2020 
Years of service: 2 years 
Position: External Director 
Work experience:  Professor at Sungkyunkwan University,   
Kim Yong-Kyun 
First appointment date: Mar 23, 2018 
Most recent period of service: Mar 23, 2018   Mar 22, 2021 
Years of service: 1 year 
Position: External Director 
Work experience: Lawyer at Barun Law LLC 
Current:  External Director Candidate Recommendation Committee,  
Audit Committee, Internal Transaction Committee,  
Compensation Committee 
Compensation Committee 
Audit Committee, Internal Transaction Committee,   
PhD in Int l Relations from Chung-Ang University 
PhD in Consumer Science from Purdue University 
PhD in Electronic Materials from Stanford University 
Number of employees participated in corruption prevention trainings 
We strongly believe and recognize that the  
trust which has been formed among every  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics employee and  
stakeholder is one of the most essential  
elements to our sustainable growth and  
competitiveness. Thus, we are committed  
to establishing a transparent organizational  
culture that prevents corruption both inside  
and outside of Samsung Electro-Mechanics.  
In order to actualize such commitment, we  
carry out corruption prevention education  
programs for all our domestic and international  
employees, discovering and improving  
flawed processes, while continuing ethical  
management practices and awareness  
campaigns for all business partners. 
Seeking to establish a transparent corporate  
culture, Samsung Electro-Mechanics has  
established and operates specific  Guideline  
for Employees  in separate categories- 
on dealing with clients, corporate fund  
assets, ethical values at work, and leakage of  
information and personnel.  
We are reinforcing a sense of ethics by establishing a transparent corporate culture and engaging in activities to prevent  corruption and irregularities 
 The Policy 
  Employee Activities to Prevent   Corruption and Irregularities 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: persons) 
 Overseas  Domestic  
ETHICAL MANAGEMENT 
There is an annual training session on the  
prevention of irregularities among employees  
at home and abroad. 
A separate training session is conducted for  
employees in upper management including  
executives, department heads and general  
managers. Online training courses are held  
to supplement offline training. In particular,  
customized training is available on topics  
related to the prevention of incidents to  
prevent them from recurring. 
The  Pledge of Action for Ethical Management   
is signed by all employees including top  
executives to reinforce a sense of ethics and  
raise awareness on the topic. 
Reporting Process 
   Ethical management  website 
  Postal letter 
  Phone calls 
Report Registration 
ETHICAL MANAGEMENT 
Registration Status  Correspondence 
Provide feedback on registered  reports within  24 hours 
0 2018 2016 2017 
Employee corruption prevention trainings 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: times) 
Incidents are posted on the company s  
intranet on a quarterly basis. An  Ethical  
Champion  is recognized at each business site  
and in each business department to suggest  
clear decision criteria on matters of ethical  
conflicts for employees. 
Inspection plans are established and  
implemented periodically at production firms  
and sales offices at home and abroad. Flawed  
processes identified through the inspections  
are subject to immediate measures for  
improvement, which are in turn horizontally  
applied. In this way, the company implements  
prevention programs against corruption and  
irregularities.  
 Overseas  Domestic  
Evidence  fact investigation  (feedback to  whistleblower,  if necessary) 
Investigation 
Investigation Result  Correspondence 
Report the investigation report and actions 
In order to expand our commitment to  
ethical management, we are also extending  
such programs to our business partners.  
In April 2010, Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
enacted  the Charter for Ethical Partners,   
and made new agreements with all our  
business partners based on renewed ethical  
management standards. All new partners  
must now abide by this agreement. 
In January 2013, Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
enacted  business guidelines  that apply to  
transactions with our business partners,  
while publishing and sharing its culture of  
clean and healthy trade settlement policies  
via the company s business portal. All  
business partners and customers connect  
and participate in our ethical management  
initiatives through this portal. We send an  
official letter of request for cooperation to  
participate in ethical management activities  
to business partners before national holidays  
every year to encourage their engagement in  
our efforts. We have also contributed to the  
expansion of the culture of transparency by  
  Dissemination of Ethical   Management to Suppliers 
Receiving bribes, Receiving a lavish treat,   Financial transactions, Undue corporate 
Habitual negligence, Improper financial   transactions between employees  
Ethical Management Items 
Embezzlement, Asset theft 
Information leakage, etc. 
Transaction  relations 
Corporate  fund and  assets 
Work  Discipline 
In order to prevent business corruption,  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics conducts  Ethical  
Management Online Surveillance . This  
website is available in 4 different languages  
i.e. Korean, English, Chinese and Thai, to help  
stakeholders around the globe and inside  
whistleblowers report business corruption and  
irregularities of any possible Samsung Electro- 
Mechanics or its employees anonymously.  
Corruption reports submissions may also be  
made via e-mails, postal letters, and over  
phone calls. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics makes it a rule  
to guarantee the anonymity of whistleblowers.  
After fact-finding is clearly conducted  
on registered cases, Samsung Electro- 
Mechanics imposes corrective measures on  
related departments, and stringently punishes  
employees involved in irregularities and  
provides the results of cases handled to the  
whistleblowers when necessary. Also, any act  
of revealing the identity of the whistleblowers  
and or retaliatory measures taken towards the  
whistleblower is strictly prohibited and severly  
prohibiting the giving of monetary gifts from  
business partners as a form of congratulations  
or condolence at family events held by  
employees as of November 2011. 
  Ethical Management Online   Surveillance 
Registered Reports (coverage: consolidated basis, unit: cases) 
Total 45 49 42 
Overseas Corruption 10 12 17 
Domestic Corruption 16 9 3 
SHAREHOLDERS 
Complaints Petitions 6 5 2 
Others  - 7 2 
Complaints Petitions 11 15 17 
Corruption Prevention Measures Instituted 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics not only focuses  
its attention on prevention, but also on  
post- incident measures. Employees who  
have engaged in irregularities are severely  
punished. Business partners and stakeholders  
who have engaged in bribery can also be  
punished with light to heavy penalties, such  
as contract suspension and request for  
institution of recurrence prevention measures. 
  Ethical Management Practice Pledge 
  Ethical management education program (on off-line) 
   Ethical Champion   
  Discovery and improvement of flawed processes 
  Agreement on Ethical Management Practices 
   Sharing business promotion guidelines   
   Ethical management cooperation newsletter  
 Measures against Corruption 
  Regular meetings among business partners  
   Samsung Electro-Mechanics business partner  
(published regularly) 
(at each domestic overseas business site) 
meetings conducted online 
2016 2017 2018 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics is committed to  
enhancing shareholder value by improving its  
business competitiveness and profitability and  
actively returning the results to shareholders,  
resulting in the increase of corporate value  
from a long-term perspective. 
We are communicating with global  
stakeholders so that our corporate values are  
assessed fairly and transparently in the capital  
market. Also, we are making efforts to boost  
shareholder returns with a dividend policy  
designed to maximize shareholder profits 
Efforts to Expand Communication 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics strives  
to establish stable relationships with  
shareholders and investors based on trust  
by actively carrying out internal and external  
communication activities. 
We conduct conference calls on quarterly  
results, attempt to voluntarily provide  
information on our business performance,  
growth, and profitability, and actively expand  
communication through various IR activities in  
addition to quarterly results announcements. 
We visit major institutions at home and abroad  
and major shareholders, after presentations  
of quarterly results to introduce strategies  
for our key businesses, listen to investors   
opinions and report back on them to top  
executives. Top executives of Samsung  
Electro-Mechanics listen to matters of interest  
related to the capital market, gather requests  
made to the company through meetings  
with institutional investors and analysts at  
home and abroad, and reflect them in its  
management strategies. 
While conducting one-on-one meetings with  
shareholders and analysts as well as  
small-scale seminars, we will strive to  
actively reflect shareholder opinions in our  
  Enhancement of Shareholder   and Investor Value 
We are making efforts to ensure transparency and access to information in order to satisfy stakeholders' right to know 
COMMUNICATION 
Transparency of Information 
Providing appropriate information in a timely  
manner to shareholders and investors as part  
of sustainable management efforts not only  
satisfies stakeholders  and investors  right  
to know, but also serves as a critical means  
to establish trust with shareholders and  
investors. 
We disclose information on our management  
status by updating quarterly, biannual and  
annual performance reports via our homepage,  
as well as the Data Analysis, Retrieval and  
Transfer System (DART) operated by Korea s  
Financial Supervisory Service and provide  
shareholders with financial information  
and materials on performance through the  
company website so that stakeholders can  
access the information in real time. 
We conduct conference calls in Korean  
and English on quarterly results and give  
presentations on management performance  
and outlook to overseas investors and  
analysts. Webcasting is available via the  
website for anybody to gain the same  
management activities through various market  
communication activities. 
 For institutional investors, making an investment in a company 
promises mutual growth and is an act that requires a thorough review of 
the company s management activities on the part of shareholders. 
It also means an investment in the right place. In carrying out such activities, 
the Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG) criteria serve as 
critical indicators. How a company considers the impact of its business 
on the environment, what kind of considerations are reflected in its 
business plan in terms of social impact, and the degree of effort put on 
governance reform to embrace both majority and minority shareholders are 
factors of material importance for institutional investors.  
Koh Tae-hoon Head of Business Model Research Center, Assetplus Investment Management Co., Ltd. 
COMMUNICATION 
Building Investor Trust 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics considers com  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics plans to reinforce  
Investor Relations activities that continue to  
deliver the potential of sustainable growth in  
the future.  
We will secure transparency and fairness  
by explaining our new growth engines and  
management strategies to stakeholders in  
the capital market and engaging in internal  
and external communication activities. By  
doing so, we will further increase investor  
understanding and confidence as well as  
boost shareholder value.  
information in real time. The content covered  
in conference calls can be listened to and  
checked out on the website at any time.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics reinforces  
communication related to the Socially  
Responsible Investment (SRI) that emphasizes  
the disclosure of environmental and social  
impact. As the criteria used by major investors  
including pension funds around the globe  
for evaluating companies has widened at  
home and abroad, the Environment, Social,  
Governance (ESG) criteria inclusive of ethics,  
human rights, environmental impact and  
corporate structure tends to be shared more  
frequently with shareholders and investors. 
Provision of ESG Information 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics provided key  
information on transparent management and  
ESG activities in a timely manner and achieved  
substantial results. We acquired a grade of A  
in terms of integrated ESG performance from  
the Korea Corporate Governance Service,  
were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability  
World Index (DJSI) for 10 consecutive years,  
were selected as a Best Practices Company  
and inducted in the Carbon Disclosure Project  
(CDP) Hall of Fame for 9 consecutive years  
and were listed on the FTSE4Good Index for 8  
consecutive years.  
  Enhancing Responses to Socially   Responsible Investment 
1   All laws and regulations shall prioritize  accounting standards and tax laws  imposed by HQ and local countries 
3   Employees in charge of tax payment  at local subsidiaries shall maintain  transparent relationships with the tax  authorities in each country and strive   to prevent tax risks. 
Principle: Compliance with HQ and the tax laws of local countries 
Tax Management Guidelines 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics fulfills all  
obligations in relation to the filing and payment  
of taxes by complying with tax laws of local  
countries as prescribed in the company s tax  
payment management guidelines.  
To this end, we maintain transparent  
relationships with tax authorities in local  
countries where local subsidiaries of Samsung  
Electro-Mechanics are located, assist with the  
career management of tax personnel in local  
subsidiaries, and proactively utilize external  
specialists including accountants for risk  
management. 
Tax Risk Assessment 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics is making  
efforts to prevent all tax risks that may arise  
with regard to all transactions of goods and  
services, international trade, initiating new  
business, and transaction system changes.  
To this end, we discover and respond with  
measures to minimize tax payment risks in  
advance, while evaluating tax-related risks at  
HQ and each overseas subsidiary.  
2   Parties involved shall recognize  differences between tax laws in each  country, comply with tax laws in all  transactions, and implement tax filing  and tax payment obligations 
4   Management of internal personnel  and utilization of external specialists  must be maximized to comply with tax  laws in local countries where overseas  subsidiaries are located to prevent tax  risks. 
 Tax Payment Policy 
SHAREHOLDERS 
Tax Risk Management 
We provide taxation consulting to preemptively  
respond to regulatory issues and risks related  
to tax payment in foreign countries in the  
course of establishing a new subsidiary or  
undergoing an M A for business expansion.  
We follow a procedure of prior verification on  
compliance with local tax rules through the  
review of an external accounting firm and on  
possible tax omissions before submitting a  
filing statement for a corporate tax return by  
HQ and overseas subsidiaries.  
All tax reports are made within the payment  
due dates, documented and stored as  
evidence to establish the eligibility of  
transactions. As for domestic trade, fair prices  
are maintained in transactions with third  
parties and persons with special relationships  
according to related laws.  
In terms of the risk of securing an adequate  
earnings rate for transactions between the HQ  
and overseas subsidiaries, external specialists  
are utilized to measure risks by reviewing the  
transfer price, and related reports are reviewed  
to respond to potential tax risks. Moreover,  
the transfer price is also reviewed by overseas  
subsidiaries as we strive to prevent related  
HQ and each overseas subsidiary utilize  
external specialists (accounting firms) to  
strictly evaluate tax payment risks and  
preemptively respond to them. They conduct  
fact checking and review tax regulations in  
related countries as well as potential risks. 
Sales Volume by Business Solution (coverage: consolidated basis, unit: KRW million) 
In 2018, despite the stable growth in first half  
year, the global economy was weak in the  
second half year due to commercial conflicts  
between the US and China. However, the  
increase in demands for components was  
led by industrial and automotive sectors and  
MLCC supply and demand have an positive  
effect on it. Boosted by such increasing  
demand, the 2018 management performance  
of Samsung Electro-Mechanics, on a  
consolidated basis, was KRW 8.0002 trillion  
in sales volume and KRW 1.015 trillion in  
operating income, recording improved results  
compared to the previous year. 
In order to respond to new markets, we plan  
to reinforce development competencies  
required to preemptively occupy the high-end  
market, strengthen marketing competencies  
in the Chinese market, and enhance  
product lineups in the industrial sector and  
automobiles, which remain promising areas  
for growth.  
Total 6,033,040 6,694,046 8,002,008 
Substrate High-density multi-layer boards For PCs, smart phones, etc. 1,329,163 1,324,996 1,338,096 
Module Camera module, communication module For smart phones, etc. 2,791,233 3,011,959 3,113,766 
Component Passive electronic components (MLCC, Inductor, Chip Resistor, etc.) For PCs, smart phones, general purpose, etc. 1,912,644 2,357,091 3,550,146 
 Management Performance 
We are continuing to show performance improvements and reinforce development competencies to   ensure early entry into emerging markets  
Major Products Usage 2016 2017 2018 
MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE 
IT is disseminated into diverse business  
fields including not only communications and  
household electronics but also automobiles,  
medicine, broadcasting, and finance-a  
trend that is expected to increase in the  
future. Accordingly, seeking to reaffirm our  
presence as a global leader in the electronic  
components industry, our technologies have  
become more sophisticated in their usage  
of materials, multilayer thin film molding  
and high-frequency circuit designs. We  
have also developed businesses including  
chip components, boards, camera modules  
and communication modules that feature  
technological convergence. 
 R D Activities 
MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE 
R D Investment 
  R D expenses mean the amount before deducting government subsidies 
R D expenses 408,405 460,206 532,436 
R D expenses  Sales 6.7 6.7 6.5 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: KRW million) 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: KRW million, %) 
2016 2017 2018 
2016 2017 2018 
Purchasing cost 
Business Partners 
Shareholders 
Value Distribution by Stakeholders 
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: KRW million) 
SHAREHOLDERS 
Welfare benefit 
Value Distribution 
Communities 
Government 
Social contribution expenditure 
Retirement benefit 
Corporate tax 
At a time when the scope of business has  
become globalized beyond industry and  
region, we reinforce our competitiveness  
in intellectual property rights (IPR) by  
securing source technologies and R D  
competitiveness. The rapidly changing  
technological developments and trends clearly  
manifest the correlation between corporate  
survival and IPRs. Hence, the importance of  
securing IPR competitiveness has increased. 
As such, we utilize patents as management  
assets, thoroughly review and prevent  
IPR risks, establish a stable IPR operation  
system and cooperative system with related  
departments, and focus on patent filing,  
patent conflict response and licensing. 
We focus our competencies to protect R D  
outcomes to prepare not only for current  
business but also for future business  
opportunities. 
  Intellectual Property Rights 
Patent status (coverage: consolidated basis, unit: cases) 
The portion of patents filed in China is on the  
rise every year, exceeding the number filed  
in the U.S. where most lawsuits take place  
among electronic set makers. 
We also seek to enhance patent quality in  
associated with global law firms. We secure  
technologies that we need through portfolio  
management by product and key task in terms  
of patents filed, and strengthen our rights to  
critical patents, thus maximizing synergies. 
We hold 6,647 domestic patents (Including  
pending) and 7,284 overseas patents  
(Including pending) as of the fourth quarter of  
2017, among which, 2,790 domestic patents  
and 3,903 overseas ones are registered as  
intellectual intangible assets. 
Domestic Registered 3,994 3,180 2,790 
Overseas Registered 3,704 3,741 3,903 
Total 15,930 14,162 13,931 
MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE 
Pending 4,731 4,191 3,857 
Pending 3,501 3,050 3,381 
2016 2017 2018 
We selected three core areas for social contribution including the disabled, multi-cultural families,  
We will continue to fulfill our social responsibilities and spread a spirit of sharing as  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics is making efforts to herald a bright and  
a genuine corporate citizen to create synergies based on our efforts. 
and local communities to reach out to the socially vulnerable and  
hopeful future where everyone shares and prospers together. 
those who do not benefit from welfare policies.  
Communities 
Global Social Contribution 
Major Social Contribution 
Vision and Strategy 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics actively  
follows the directions of the UN Sustainable  
Development Goals (SDGs) with a sense of  
responsibility for the impact on society and  
environment as a member of global civil  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics deals with social  
issues from the mid-to long-term perspective  
to establish an image of a caring company.  
We make efforts to continuously create  
concrete and systematic social contributions  
by engaging in activities that promote SDGs. 
Nurturing of talents Physical training and cultural activities 
Volunteering 
Three core areas 
Directions 
Vision Establishing an image of a caring company 
We consider our role as a social partner from the mid long term perspective 
By expenses 
Introduce representative contribution  activities reflecting the nature of   our business (Branding) 
VISION AND STRATEGY 
The disabled Multi-cultural families Community 
3,4 8,9 3,7,11,12,14,17 
We reestablished the social contribution  
implementation process to enhance  
transparency in terms of support payments  
and social contribution funds. Agenda items  
are approved through prior review monthly  
with supporting documents such as targets  
to be provided with contributions (social  
welfare facilities, schools, scholarships,  
etc.) and operating criteria are implemented  
transparently according to the arbitrary  
decision standards for implementation of  
contributions.  
(coverage: consolidated basis, unit: KRW million) 
Social welfare 
Social Contribution Costs 
COMMUNITIES 
Support multi-cultural families to adapt  to life and thrive in Korea (Education,  emotional support, self-reliance) 
Multi-cultural family The  disabled 
By Key Areas of Focus 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has provided  
projects to help the disabled (major social  
contribution activities), utilizing its business of  
 producing electronic components that form  
the backbone of electronic products.  
Respond to social issues and   community demands (Urban-rural co-existence, environment, etc.) 
Examples include  hello! SEM Orchestra ,  
the Joint Replacement Surgery Program,  
the National Music Competition for Disabled  
Students and the National Badminton  
Competition for the Disabled. These imbue  
stronger hope and confidence in the disabled,  
helping them to become self-sufficient  
and enabling them to lead financially and  
emotionally stable lives in society. 
All employees take part in talent donation  
drives and volunteering teams. By donating  
their talent based on their unique individual  
skills and aptitude, they cement their roles  
as social partners who grow along with their  
neighbors in need. 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics fulfills its social  
responsibilities by reflecting the needs of local  
residents as a corporate citizen by selecting  
three core areas for social contribution  
including the disabled, multi-cultural families,  
and local communities to enhance the  
community welfare, while reaching out to the  
socially vulnerable and those unable to take  
advantage of existing welfare benefits. 
We regularly take part in sectorial meetings  
to listen to the genuine feedback from  
communities, improving satisfaction rates  
among clients and communities, and  
reinforcing genuineness and continuity in our  
social contribution activities. Likewise, we  
strive to build a brighter society and establish  
an image of a caring company.  
  We would like to thank Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
for its interest and support of the socially vulnerable  
who are unable to take advantage of existing welfare  
services. We believe that the activities of   
Samsung Electro-Mechanics have a greater meaning  
than mere corporate social responsibility. The company s  
support plays a role as a bridge connecting businesses  
to the local community. We want to continue to grow  
together with Samsung Electro-Mechanics in pursuit of  
expanded welfare benefits for local communities.  
2018 Donation participation  rate(%) Bang Sang-hee Team leader, Metan 4-dong Community Service Center  
VISION AND STRATEGY 
2018 Total number of hours  volunteered(hours) 
2018 Average donation amount  per person(KRW) 
Joint Replacement Surgery Program 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has provided  
support for the Joint Replacement Surgery  
Program free of charge for people with joint  
disabilities in the low-income category since  
2005, taking advantage of its core business of  
 producing electronic components that form  
the backbone of electronic products.  
To this end, we signed a third-party  
agreement on the Joint Replacement Surgery  
Program with Lee Chun Teak Orthopedic  
Specialty Hospital in Suwon, Gyeonggi  
Province. We cover 70% of the surgery cost  
and the hospital covers the remaining 30%.  
Gyeonggi Province served as an essential link  
to forge an agreement that includes finding  
eligible patients and promoting the program. 
Currently, about 572 people have received  
benefits from the program, experiencing the  
joy of rehabilitation, as we help them maintain  
an active and healthy lifestyle. 
 The Diabled 
MAJOR SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 
We engage in sharing activities for the underprivileged to help them lead financially and   emotionally stable lives within society 
Operation Status of Joint Replacement  Surgery Program 
(Samsung Electro-Mechanics: KRW 1.25 billion,   Lee Chun-Teck Orthopedic Specialty Hospital: KRW 530 million) 
2005 Lee Chun-Tek Orthopedic Specialty Hospital, Suwon 2008 Gyeonggi Province 2012 South Chungcheong Province  2013 Gangneung Medical Center, Gangwon Province 
The SEM logo depicts an image of harmony,   
shoulder-to-shoulder with arms wide open.  
a rainbow of beautiful dreams connecting   
Also, the rainbow band recalls a vision of   
No. of patients who received a medical service   related to joint replacement 
taking care of one another and standing   
No. of patients who received a surgery 
KRW1.78 billion 
 We are special and   talented musicians.  
572 Persons 
909 Persons 
Amount of money spent 
Agreements Signed 
COMMUNITIES 
smalls hearts. 
hello! SEM Orchestra 
As Korea s first orchestra consisting of  
children and youth with disabilities, the  
orchestra gives them confidence and a strong  
desire for rehabilitation so that they can live  
out their dreams through culture and art. This  
contributes to the easing of social prejudice  
against the disabled. 
We forged a partner relationship with Ableart  
(an NGO promoting the artwork of the  
disabled) and the Korea Children s Foundation.  
We appointed Kim Mi-suk, a foundation  
partner, as the promotional ambassador to  
enhance the authenticity of the project. Every  
year, over 20 regular concerts and invitation  
concerts are planned and staged to support  
the disabled as they realize their hopes and  
dreams through music. We also organize  
events inviting employees, touching their  
hearts, refreshing their minds and enhancing  
mutual communication. 
We provide support for a group of instructors  
composed of conductors and professional  
musicians to improve the musical talent of  
members and the quality of the orchestra in  
general. They provide regular one-on-one  
private lessons to enhance musical skills and  
boost their self-esteem, creating a beautiful  
harmony in the orchestra. 
National Badminton Competition   for the Disabled 
The Busan site of Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
organizes the Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
Sponsored National Badminton Competition for  
the Disabled along with the Busan Metropolitan  
Government. The purpose is to change the  
social paradigm toward the disabled, revitalize  
sports activities for them and imbue them with  
a greater sense of confidence. The Samsung  
Electro-Mechanics sponsored National  
Badminton Competition for the Disabled  
has been held annually since 2006. It invites  
participation by 1,500 athletes a year as a  
sports event and festival for the disabled. It  
was upgraded to an event organized by Korea  
Badminton Association for the Disabled in 2015,  
establishing itself as Korea s largest badminton  
competition for the disabled. 
Professional athletes from Samsung Electro- 
Mechanics including members of the national  
team also participate in the event, which  
includes exhibition games and signing events.  
This event has become a local festival and has  
brought hope and contributed to the dreams of  
the disabled. 
National Music Competition for   Disabled Students 
The Sejong site of Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
has held the National Music Competition  
for Disabled Students along with Taejon  
Broadcasting (TJB) every year starting from  
2008, with the aim to develop the potential of  
youth with disabilities and boost their social  
confidence.  
Scholarship Project 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics provides support  
for scholarship projects in order to boost the  
self-sufficiency of children and youth from  
low-income families and single parent families  
to ensure they enjoy a bright and healthy  
We have provided support to about 200  
children from low-income families through  
the Youth Mentoring Scholarship (Kkumnamu  
Mentor Scholarship) for over 10 years since  
Study room support business 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has opened  
and operated after-school study groups for  
children from multi-cultural families. We  
expect that the study groups will contribute to  
improving the quality of education provided,  
promote economic, emotional, and social  
development, and help them to make new  
Each year, more than 300 students across the  
country compete in various genres, including  
musical instruments, orchestra, vocal music,  
etc. By helping them to exhibit their talent,  
we assist the disabled in regaining their  
confidence and sense of identity. Grand prize  
winners are given a prize from the Minister of  
Education, enhancing the pride of participants  
each year. 
 Multiculturalism 
MAJOR SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 
Operation of Shelters for   Multi-cultural Women and Children  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has set up and  
provided shelters known as  Nooribodeumteo   
for women from multicultural families and  
their children since 2013. The shelter offers  
spaces for education and helps women from  
multicultural families advance in society  
through basic Korean language courses,  
barista training and other courses. The place  
serves as a venue for cultural exchanges as  
In 2013, we opened the  Woori Dream Center  
No.1  for middle school students from low- 
income families and have built 4 more study  
rooms since then. Our employees engage in  
diverse volunteer activities by utilizing their  
talents in teaching, mentoring, and organizing  
birthday parties. 
We also promote cultural exchanges with  
multi-cultural families by participating in  
celebration events including Together Day  
and Multicultural Unity Festival. For instance,  
we planned to establish an integrated center  
as a hub to nurture global talent in order to  
support the education and employment of  
children from multi-cultural families who  
face difficulties in adapting to Korean society  
with the aim of responding to social issues  
preemptively as the multi-cultural population  
increases. 
In 2015, Samsung Electro-Mechanics, Suwon  
City, and the Catholic Church (a business- 
government-civil society project) signed an  
agreement and Suwon Global Youth Dream  
Center was built in 2016, firmly establishing  
a support network within the community by  
providing education, emotional support, and  
self-reliance training to youth from immigrant  
families, helping family members develop their  
own unique competencies and communicating  
with local residents to improve their level of  
awareness of the multi-cultural population. 
Support for  Refreshing Spa Getaway   for Multicultural Families  
In 2016, we provided support for 100 people  
from multicultural families living in Busan to  
take a  Refreshing Spa Getaway  along with  
the fair travel agency PinkRoader in order to  
promote communication and harmony among  
multicultural families in rural areas. 
Multicultural families, in need of a break and  
relaxation from a busy daily lifestyle, can visit  
Haeundae Beach, one of the most popular  
tourist destinations in Korea, as well as the  
historic sites in their hometowns. During the  
getaways, they break out of their routine,  
learn how to communicate with each other  
and create precious memories along with  
their families to improve family relationships  
through diverse experiences. We will make  
concerted efforts to establish an image of  
a trusted company through communication  
and participation based on various activities  
related to cultural, art, and experiential  
programs utilizing local resources to promote  
the stability of multicultural families. 
One Company-Several Villages,   Urban-Rural Co-existence Campaign 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics signed an  
agreement with Togomi Village in Hwacheon- 
gun, Gangwon Province in 2002. Since then,  
the number of partner villages has expanded  
to 17 in total, with company employees and  
their families visiting the villages to take part  
in farm stay programs. As such, we unfold  
 Community 
Summer Rural Community Service 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics started  
to provide volunteers for summer rural  
community service in rural towns across  
the country in 1995 and has continued such  
activities for 24 years as of 2017.  
Every summer vacation, employees and  
their families visit rural areas and towns  
diverse rural experiences and volunteering  
activities during the farming period. As a  
result of such exchanges, Togomi Village and  
Byeotgari Village have secured a stable source  
of income and its rural tourism programs have  
come to be better recognized, transforming  
itself into Korea s representative rural tourist  
villages visited by about 10,000 people a year.  
Samsung Electro-Mechanics is directly  
involved in rural issues related to the opening  
of the global agricultural market, extending  
support and empathy, thereby contributing to  
the easing of social issues. 
 I believe that collective partnerships with social institutions such as 
local communities and NGOs are the most important factor of a company s 
social contribution activities. To this end, Samsung Electro-Mechanics is 
contributing to the balanced development of local communities by 
cooperating with local institutions, promoting social contributions, and 
connecting related organizations together.  
Min Eun-joo Director, Busan Volunteer Welfare Center 
Volunteering Volunteering and donations are   organized to support self-reliance and  the stability of the underprivileged  who desperately need a helping hand,  including people from low-income  families, people with disabilities, seniors  living alone, foreign employees, and  multicultural families 
COMMUNITIES 
Eco-Friendly Projects for Communities  
Starting with our first installation of eco-friendly   
LED lighting to the sister village of Togomi  
(Hwacheon in Gangwon Province),   
we installed PVs in the sister village of  
Byeotgari Village (in IT rooms and dorms, etc.)  
We provided solar energy facilities in  
Donggwangwon (a Suwon childcare facility)  
and Hyeseongwon (a facility for the disabled).  
As a result, we have imbued a sense of  
awareness about the environment in villagers  
and facility users, as well as awareness about  
environmental protection and operational cost  
and engage in volunteer activities based on  
individual talent such as replacement of wiring  
for houses where a fire may occur due to  
outdated wiring, repapering walls and floors,  
as well as photo shoots for the elderly.  
We support facilities for water conservation  
by taking a leading role as an eco-friendly  
company while aiming for budget reductions  
and enhanced awareness at 28 social welfare  
centers across the country. The existing  
water supply equipment at the centers was  
replaced with specially designed water-saving  
equipment, thus saving water and raising  
awareness on the environment. 
Reflecting the needs of local residents, 200  
employees along with the CEO, the Mayor  
of Suwon, the District Head of Yeongtong- 
gu, heads of dong s (neighborhoods), local  
residents and the President of Suwon  
Women s College (which made a donation of  
talent through art) created a wall painting of  
over 100m, forming a flower bed along the  
Woncheon stream.  
Sponsorship for the Underprivileged 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics supports 700  
children from low-income families,  
Share The company is engaged in diverse  sharing activities such as providing  support for overseas children, university  students from low-income households,  and provision of educational expenses  for children from multicultural families   to deliver hope for a better tomorrow 
 Samsung Electro-Mechanics is a representative company that  
enhances social inclusiveness in Busan by engaging in social  
contribution activities in all areas. Specifically, the Korea Badminton  
Association for the Disabled, which was started 14 years ago,  
is well recognized by the community as an example of the company s  
social contributions. We are also grateful to Samsung Electro-Mechanics  
for reaching out to the underprivileged wholeheartedly through its  
employee volunteer activities and related support.  
Kim Su-mi Team leader, Community Chest of Busan 
Employee Volunteering 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics has run  
and managed social contribution projects  
by creating a dedicated team under the  
leadership of the head of the HR team to  
encourage development in local communities  
and employee volunteer activities. The  
CEO and executive managers participate in  
various types of volunteer activities to build a  
company-wide culture of volunteering through  
the donation of individual talent beyond the  
donation of time and simple labor, hands-on  
volunteering (support via school supplies, play  
kits, and sporting goods to Nepalese children),  
and environmental volunteering by busy  
employees. 
youth, people with disabilities, seniors living  
alone, and multicultural families each year  
through the Korea Children s Foundation and  
Community Chest of Korea to assist those  
unable to take advantage of welfare benefits. 
MAJOR SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 
Charitable Donations 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics sponsors events  
to celebrate World Social Work Day and  
the International Day of Persons with  
Disabilities organized by local communities  
to practice social responsibility as a corporate  
citizen and improve its image among  
communities, NGOs, public institutions and  
society at large. 
Each year, we procure agriculture products  
worth over KRW 500 million to increase  
household incomes in 20 sisterhood  
relationship villages.  
Also, we establish one-on-one sisterhood  
relationship with villages to resolve social  
inequality issues for those unable to access  
welfare benefits, engage in various volunteer  
activities such as supporting self-reliance  
programs and providing school meals. 
Volunteering activities to benefit low- 
income people takes place through 60  
volunteering teams company-wide where  
employees voluntarily participate in various  
weekly activities such as environmental  
cleanups, free meal serving, teaching in  
study rooms, birthday party organization,  
outdoor experiences, visits to sister villages,  
talent donation in badminton mentoring,  
environmental campaigns in communities and  
by drawing wall paintings. 
Subsidiaries in China(Tianjin, Gaoxin, Kunshan)  
are engaged in local volunteering activities  
based on feedback from local residents.  
Urban-rural activities unfold through the One  
Company-One Village programs including  
activities to clean up rivers and streams,  
consolation visits during national holidays,  
provision of daily supplies, and increasing  
income in rural village through harvesting and  
procurement of agricultural products. Children,  
elderly people and people with disabilities  
are provided with facilities and goods along  
with on-site charity work such as consolation  
concerts and care services for elderly patients  
with dementia, tutoring for students from low- 
income families living in mountainous areas,  
and the provision psychotherapy, sanitary  
products, and daily supplies. Employees   
talents are utilized to assist children and youth  
in their learning.  
The Philippines is prone to many natural  
disasters including typhoons every year,  
resulting in many people losing their homes.  
The company s subsidiary in the Philippines  
considered local needs and worked to raise  
typhoon relief funds. This, added to the KRW  
100 million contributed by the HQ,   
 The Philippines 
GLOBAL SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 
We carry out global social contribution activities tailored to the characteristics of each country 
was donated and delivered to affected areas  
through the Child Fund Alliance. An employee  
volunteer team was set up and engaged in  
volunteer activities in damaged areas to provide  
medical support, relief goods, and take part in  
restoration work. 
The company s subsidiary in the Philippines  
also initiated a house-building event as its  
representative project, building new houses for  
displaced people and helping them to live in a  
healthy and pleasant environment after many  
people were faced with difficult circumstances,  
which in turn became a social problem. Twenty  
new houses have been built so far, helping  
displaced people rebuild their lives.  
Key activities include providing scholarships to  
students in communities to encourage talent  
development, provision of school meals as well  
as medical support. In addition, employees are  
directly involved in blood donation drives and  
carry out various volunteer activities for local  
residents. 
The company s subsidiary in Thailand carries  
out activities such as the beautification of the  
environment near   
Global Social Contribution Strive to discover social contribution  projects reflecting the needs of the  regions, reduce global inequalities  between countries, and fulfil the  corporate social responsibility 
COMMUNITIES 
business sites, and facility painting and other  
activities during environmental cleanup periods  
in spring. We are also engaged in volunteer  
activities such as planting mangrove trees that  
grow in the tropical seashores and releasing  
crabs to provide environmental assistance to  
the region, in light of the frequent flooding in  
Thailand. Employees of the Thai subsidiary  
are making efforts to harmonize with local  
communities and improve worker welfare. Each  
year, they visit underprivileged villages to teach  
children and provide medical examinations and  
dental treatments for free. 
Blood donations, replacement of outdated  
facilities and painting of obsolete walls in  
elementary schools nearby the business site are  
carried out to help the local community. Also,  
we invite families of our employees in Thailand  
and stage events (a traditional sport game and  
writing  thank you  cards to celebrate Mother s  
Day) to create a positive workplace.  
Each year, the company s subsidiary in Vietnam  
is involved in sharing activities that include the  
provision of electric fans and daily supplies  
(instant noodles, cooking oil, etc.) for poor  
seniors living alone in social welfare facilities and  
children with disabilities in the local community.  
We visit the homes of poor employees to  
provide various forms of support as our  
employees take part in the blood donation drive  
to resolve blood supply shortages, contributing  
to create a warmer society by sharing resources  
and providing hope. 
ESG KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 94 
THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE STATEMENT 98 
THIRD-PARTY GHG VERIFICATION STATEMENT 100 
GRI CONTENT INDEX  102 
FINANCIAL STATEMENT 90 
FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position (Unit: KRW) 
Liabilities 
Total liabilities and equity 7,767,403,543,048 8,644,914,205,829 
 . Current assets 2,478,798,088,379 3,525,293,145,703 
 .Current liabilities 2,454,109,697,101 2,509,584,012,607 
 . Equity attributable to owners of the parent  4,231,643,216,155 4,821,047,660,325 
 . Non-current assets: 5,288,605,454,669 5,119,621,060,126 
Total assets 7,767,403,543,048 8,644,914,205,829 
 . Non-current liabilities 981,802,459,617 1,188,832,636,963 
Total liabilities 3,435,912,156,718 3,698,416,649,570 
 . Non-controlling interests 99,848,170,175 125,449,895,934 
Total equity 4,331,491,386,330 4,946,497,556,259 
Cash and cash equivalents 444,609,329,777 1,002,374,471,773 
Current financial assets 123,482,249,407 243,542,157,639 
Trade and other receivables 912,897,439,592 1,060,910,372,005 
Short-term loans 234,828,973 546,593,519 
Advanced payments  6,270,546,824 35,844,500,364 
Prepaid expenses 35,754,069,726 36,396,555,152 
Prepaid income tax 36,656,270,634 19,206,307,573 
Inventories, net 918,893,353,446 1,115,565,877,099 
Right of return assets - 10,906,310,579 
Investment in associates 53,284,973,129 60,213,757,585 
Available-for-sale financial assets 725,530,836,477 - 
Equity instruments designated at fair value - 150,889,138,429 
Long-term loans 2,227,119,045 2,197,986,394 
Property, plant and equipment 4,154,682,907,789 4,558,010,182,821 
Intangible assets, net 149,487,113,350 162,460,608,115 
Non-current financial assets 42,144,771,902 36,789,814,260 
Long-term trade and other receivables  39,388,966,877 29,375,843,577 
Long-term prepaid expenses 38,908,099,610 38,799,612,190 
Deferred tax assets 82,950,666,490 80,884,116,755 
Trade and other payables 728,590,026,558 891,417,868,679 
Short-term borrowings 1,203,792,484,010 961,955,861,424 
Advances received 13,678,164,173 7,247,601,229 
Current financial liabilities 23,533,985,774 35,569,932,235 
Income tax payables 3,479,589,499 156,011,756,482 
Current portion of long-term borrowings 467,529,000,000 432,049,753,433 
Unearned income 7,812,409,821 5,027,369,701 
Provisions for product warranties 5,694,037,266 3,408,156,425 
Refund liabilities  - 16,895,712,999 
Long-term borrowings 897,616,232,181 1,060,133,398,202 
Long-term other payables 58,283,364,943 86,081,670,197 
Long-term unearned income 11,153,131,310 15,306,671,215 
Net employee defined benefit liabilities 13,511,148,911 26,141,991,061 
Deferred tax liabilities 1,238,582,272 1,168,906,288 
Issued capital 388,003,400,000 388,003,400,000 
Share premium 1,045,201,199,091 1,045,201,199,091 
Other components of equity (146,701,455,500) (146,701,455,500) 
Accumulated other comprehensive income  335,297,333,286 355,200,814,069 
Other capital reserves 2,225,865,257,472 1,952,365,257,472 
Retained earnings 383,977,481,806 1,226,978,445,193 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unit: KRW) 
XI. Earnings per share: 
 . Sales 6,694,046,165,102 8,002,008,033,000 
 . Cost of sales 5,430,059,519,148 5,805,531,038,267 
 . Gross profit  1,408,414,614,251 2,387,492,214,727 
 . Selling and administrative expenses 1,102,211,185,689 1,369,439,415,141 
 . Operating profit 333,861,134,251 1,149,936,234,929 
 . Non-operating income (52,655,322,758) (77,659,829,937) 
 . Profit before tax 253,548,105,804 940,392,969,649 
 . Profit for the year 177,255,994,375 685,018,514,202 
 . Other comprehensive income: (137,012,302,374) (25,400,347,096) 
 . Comprehensive income: 40,243,692,001 659,618,167,106 
Finance income 11,007,953,030 12,776,639,298 
Finance costs 66,063,752,236 90,121,880,044 
Share of profit of associates 7,964,641,871 7,208,249,820 
Other income 223,995,277,042 295,361,022,808 
Other expenses 229,559,442,465 302,883,861,819 
Income tax expense 76,292,111,429 255,374,455,447 
Other comprehensive income (loss) not to  be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent  periods (net of tax): 
Other comprehensive income (loss) to be  reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent  periods (net of tax): 
Profit for the year attributable to 177,255,994,375 685,018,514,202 
Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year  attributable to:  40,243,692,001 659,618,167,106 
Basic and diluted, profit for the year attributable  to ordinary equity holders of the parent 2,139 8,685 
Basic and diluted, profit for the year attributable  to preferred shareholders of the parent 2,189 8,735 
Equity holders of the parent 29,441,579,057 629,826,970,853 
Non-controlling interests 10,802,112,944 29,791,196,253 
Net gains (losses) on valuation of equity  instruments designated at fair value OCI  - (467,843,285,755) 
Capital changes in equity method 304,913,361 - 
Net gains (losses) on disposal of equity  instruments designated at fair value OCI" - 451,339,730,000 
Capital changes in equity method - 1,633,971,054 
Re-measurement gains (losses) on defined  benefit plans (47,733,648,622) (26,951,294,019) 
Net gains (losses) on valuation of available- for-sale financial assets (14,470,223,127) - 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign  operations (75,113,343,986) 16,420,531,624 
Equity holders of the parent 161,739,107,180 656,241,635,879 
Non-controlling interests 15,516,887,195 28,776,878,323 
FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity (Unit: KRW mil.) 
As at January 1, 2017 388,003 1,045,201 (146,701) 419,861 2,215,365 318,388 424,012 97,467 4,337,585 
Profit for the year - - - - - 161,739 161,739 15,517 177,256 
Other comprehensive  income 
Total comprehensive  income (loss) - - - (84,564) - 114,005 29,442 10,802 40,244 
Dividends - - - - - (37,916) (37,916) (8,319) (46,236) 
Appropriation of   retained earnings - - - - 10,500 (10,500) - - - 
Issue of share capital of  subsidiary - - - - - - - 30 30 
Stock redemption of  subsidiary - - - - - - - (131) (131) 
as of December 31, 2017 388,003 1,045,201 (146,701) 335,297 2,225,865 383,977 4,231,643 99,848 4,331,491 
as of January 1, 2018 388,003 1,045,201 (146,701) 335,297 2,225,865 383,977 4,231,643 99,848 4,331,491 
Effect of adoption of   new accounting standards - - - 19,367 - (2,986) 16,381 (110) 16,271 
Profit for the year - - - - - 656,242 656,242 28,777 685,019 
Other comprehensive  income: 
Total comprehensive  income (loss) - - - 537 - 629,290 629,827 29,791 659,618 
Dividends - - - - - (56,803) (56,803) (4,079) (60,882) 
Appropriation of   retained earnings - - - - (273,500) 273,500 - - - 
Others - - - - - - - (1) (1) 
as of December 31, 2018 388,003 1,045,201 (146,701) 355,201 1,952,365 1,226,978 4,821,048 125,450 4,946,498 
Re-measurement gains  on defined benefit plans - - - - - (47,734) (47,734) - (47,734) 
Re-measurement gains  on defined benefit plans - - - - - (26,951) (26,951) - (26,951) 
Capital changes in   equity method - - - 305 - - 305 - 305 
Net losses on valuation  of available-for-sale  financial assets - - - (14,470) - - (14,470) - (14,470) 
Exchange differences on  translation of   foreign operations - - - (70,399) - - (70,399) (4,715) (75,113) 
Capital changes in   equity method - - - 1,634 - - 1,634 - 1,634 
Net gains (losses) on  valuation of equity  instruments designated  at fair value OCI 
Net gains (losses)  on disposal of equity  instruments designated  at fair value OCI 
Foreign currency  translation adjustments - - - 15,419 - - 15,419 10,012 16,421 
Issued capital  Share  premium 
- - - (467,856) - - (467,856) 12 (467,843) 
- - - 451,340 - - 451,340   451,340 
Other  components  of equity 
Attributable to equity holders of the parent Non-  controlling  Interests 
Accumulated  other  comprehensive  income 
Other capital  reserves Retained  earnings Sub-total 
Total equity 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unit: KRW) 
Operating activities 
Net cash flows from operating activities 717,683,604,052 1,558,669,240,987 
Investing activities 
Net cash flows used in investing activities (1,232,276,905,640) (698,089,960,161) 
Financing activities 
Net cash flows from financing activities 196,078,004,199 (235,832,714,799) 
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (318,515,297,389) 624,746,566,027 
Net foreign exchange difference (32,686,059,475) (66,981,424,031) 
Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 795,810,686,641 444,609,329,777 
Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 444,609,329,777 1,002,374,471,773 
Cash flows from operating activities 775,766,668,252 1,640,496,362,856 
Decrease in other financial assets, net 292,195,506,580 97,469,134,564 
Proceeds from short-term borrowings 520,596,730,880 355,811,233,383 
Interest received 10,092,168,186 11,661,145,446 
Income tax paid (68,175,232,386) (93,488,267,315) 
Increase in other financial assets, net (94,620,093,618) (212,063,539,976) 
Acquisition of FV-OCI - 605,759,865,545 
Disposal of FV-OCI - (27,634,521,850) 
Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale  financial assets 19,642,610,516 - 
Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (2,757,206,040) - 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and  equipment 91,594,265,409 31,547,046,319 
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (1,476,318,325,155) (1,195,189,266,500) 
Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 663,753,254 1,908,498,380 
Acquisition of intangible assets (67,818,379,986) (12,548,914,843) 
Dividends received 5,140,963,400 12,661,738,200 
Repayment of short-term borrowings (104,630,832,655) (534,360,947,257) 
Repayment of current portion of long-term  borrowings (350,758,602,000) (351,337,600,000) 
Proceeds from long-term borrowings 275,079,559,220 484,187,346,776 
Repayment of long-term borrowings (30,522,000,632) (40,429,584,000) 
Others (101,883,208) (1,166,792) 
Interest paid (65,707,638,170) (89,188,397,902) 
Dividends paid (47,877,329,236) (60,513,599,007) 
FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
ESG KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 
Customers and Business Partners   Concerning data that are different from the main contents in this report is due to unit changes 
Cost of purchasing raw materials Consolidated basis KRW million 2,718,920 3,138,017 3,168,622 
Customer Satisfaction Consolidated basis Score 96.3 95.0 92.8 
Local purchase cost Consolidated basis KRW million 551,988 596,024 835,339 
Environment   Concerning data that are different from the main contents in this report is due to unit changes 
Amount of using raw materials Consolidated basis ton 116,727 106,457 118,919 
Amount of using electricity Consolidated basis MWh 1,629,884 1,820,516 2,033,290 
LNG Consolidated basis MWh 275,568 259,821 259,462 
Percentage of local purchases Consolidated basis % 20.3 19.0 26.4 
Training support for business partners (Win-Win Academy) Domestic basis Number of courses 36 41 40 
Training support for business partners (Win-Win Academy) Domestic basis Persons 1,349 1,074 954 
Environmental facility operation consulting for business partners Domestic basis Number of companies 20 16 17 
Greenhouse gas and energy efficiency inspection for business partners Domestic basis Number of companies 32 44 35 
Risk assessment and fire safety inspection for business partners Domestic basis Number of companies 42 30 38 
Completion person of product environmental compliance   program of business partners Domestic basis Persons 56 252 130 
Completion person of safety and environmental compliance  program of business partners Domestic basis Persons 118 110 116 
Companies supported under the Industry Innovation Movement Domestic basis Number of companies 30 31 31 
Amount of fund to support the Industry Innovation Movement Domestic basis KRW 100 million 6 6 6 
Win-Win Fund Domestic basis KRW 100 million 393 383 335 
Amount of using fuel Consolidated basis GJ 1,573,727 1,748,480 1,850,260 
Diesel Consolidated basis MWh 13,321 20,636 18,623 
Gasoline Consolidated basis MWh 4,920 4,550 3,948 
Kerosene Consolidated basis MWh 0 0 0 
LPG Consolidated basis MWh 19,471 24,258 26,463 
Purchased steam Consolidated basis MWh 123,866 176,424 205,464 
Energy intensity Consolidated basis MWh KRW 100 million 34 34 31 
Amount of using energy Consolidated basis MWh 2,067,030 2,306,205 2,547,250 
Amount of using electricity Domestic basis MWh 744,946 737,016 828,678 
Amount of using energy Domestic basis MWh 1,035,235 1,041,091 1,158,370 
Greenhouse gas emissions Consolidated basis tCO2e 1,021,836 1,135,721 1,276,422 
Greenhouse gas intensity Consolidated basis tCO2e KRW 100 million 16.9 16.6 15.6 
Environment and energy investment Consolidated basis KRW million 30,331 4,703 30,902 
Environment and energy operating expenditure Consolidated basis KRW million 210,321 238,359 268,379 
Chemicals Consolidated basis ton 103,295  88,318  97,374  
Powders Consolidated basis ton 9,911  13,473  15,654  
Non-ferrous Metals Consolidated basis ton 2,512  2,849  2,641  
Resin Consolidated basis ton 512  920  1,083  
Paste Consolidated basis ton 231  642  12  
Precious Metal Consolidated basis ton 1  1  1  
Others Consolidated basis ton 265  254  2,154  
Scope Unit 2016 2017 2018 
Scope Unit 2016 2017 2018 
Environment   Concerning data that are different from the main contents in this report is due to unit changes 
Number of energy-saving project improvements Consolidated basis Cases 667 575 460 
Amount of energy-saving project improvements Consolidated basis KRW 100 million 174 181 125 
Rate of ISO 14001 certification Consolidated basis % 100 100 100 
Response to product and environment information requests Consolidated basis Cases 2,828 2,522 2,558 
Eco-friendly purchase cost Consolidated basis KRW 100 million 22.5 16.1 51.6 
Ordinary waste incineration Consolidated basis ton 5,442 3,753 3,725 
Ordinary waste landfill Consolidated basis ton 4,336 13,496 11,105 
Ordinary waste recycling Consolidated basis ton 33,672 48,147 72,344 
Amount of ordinary waste generated Consolidated basis ton 43,450 65,396 87,173 
Designated waste incineration Consolidated basis ton 4,470 7,628 9,042 
Designated waste landfill Consolidated basis ton 8,368 6,544 6,681 
Designated waste recycling Consolidated basis ton 36,165 38,117 39,736 
Amount of designated waste generated Consolidated basis ton 49,002 52,289 55,459 
Amount of waste generated Consolidated basis ton 92,452 117,684 142,632 
Water recycling amount Consolidated basis m  2,688,221 2,658,461 3,787,453 
Water recycling rate Consolidated basis % 14 12.5 16.0 
SOx emissions Consolidated basis ton 81 80 73 
Waste recycling Consolidated basis ton 69,837 86,264 112,079 
Waste recycling rate Consolidated basis % 75.5 73.3 78.6 
Profit on disposal of waste Consolidated basis % 81.8 72.0 70.2 
Outsourcing amount of reclaimed waste Consolidated basis KRW 100 million 62 90 119 
Amount of profit from reclaimed waste Consolidated basis KRW 100 million 342 316 400 
Water usage Consolidated basis m  19,208,733 21,338,128 23,689,268 
Volume of water discharged Consolidated basis m  2,377,862 3,673,953 3,991,058 
NOx emissions Consolidated basis ton 341 315 212 
Dust emissions Consolidated basis ton 45 74 60 
SOx emission intensity compared to statutory standards Consolidated basis % 9.9 1.4 0.2 
NOx emission intensity compared to statutory standards Consolidated basis % 14.2 12.3 9.6 
Dust emission intensity compared to statutory standards Consolidated basis % 6.4 8.7 6.6 
BOD emissions Consolidated basis ton 187 162 215 
COD emissions Consolidated basis ton 382 332 329 
SS emissions Consolidated basis ton 75 47 105 
T-N emissions Consolidated basis ton 114 130 155 
T-P emissions Consolidated basis ton 3 3 7 
BOD emission intensity compared to statutory standards Consolidated basis % 8.9 7.9 10.0 
COD emission intensity compared to statutory standards Consolidated basis % 21.5 17.8 13.4 
SS emission intensity compared to statutory standards Consolidated basis % 4.4 2.1 3.5 
T-N emission intensity compared to statutory standards Consolidated basis % 12.4 13.2 13.3 
T-P emission intensity compared to statutory standards Consolidated basis % 4.3 3.3 5.9 
Packaging cost reduction amount Domestic basis KRW 100 million 8.4 13.4 20.1 
Municipal Water Consolidated basis m  15,728,972 17,212,321 
Surface Water Consolidated basis m  2,675,100 2,997,373 
Ground Water Consolidated basis m  2,937,056 3,479,574 
ESG KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 
Scope Unit 2016 2017 2018 
Employees   Concerning data that are different from the main contents in this report is due to unit changes 
Employee benefits Consolidated basis KRW million 255,107 312,544 412,705 
Employee wage Consolidated basis KRW million 974,922 1,025,176 1,097,959 
Employee pension (retirement benefit) Consolidated basis KRW million 136,587 62,784 75,954 
Number of employees Consolidated basis Persons 30,469 34,411 37,472 
Number of employees (domestic overseas) Consolidated basis Persons 10,667 19,802 10,697 23,714 11,724 25,748 
Rate of female employees (domestic overseas) Consolidated basis % 24.0 56.9 23.6 54.3 23.0 51.1 
Rate of female senior officers (domestic overseas) Consolidated basis % 5.6 26.4 6.3 27.0 7.2 28.2 
Non-regular employees Consolidated basis Persons 2,112 1,927 1,070 
Number of the disabled employees Domestic basis Persons 244 227 227 
Rate of workforce with disabilities Domestic basis % 2.54 2.34 2.10 
Training and education costs Domestic basis KRW million 8,528 7,917 10,108 
Amount of money spent for training per person Domestic basis KRW million per person 0.80 0.74 0.86 
Training hours Domestic basis Hours 927,978 849,749 1,116,459 
Training hours per person Domestic basis Hours per person 87 79 95 
Disaster occurrence rate Consolidated basis % 0.007 0.026 0.011 
Number of individuals taking cyber courses Domestic basis Persons 60,482 64,227 65,019 
Number of cyber courses Domestic basis Number of courses 2,375 3,031 2,109 
Average hours of completing cyber courses Domestic basis Hours 7.5 7.6 6.7 
Global leader development Domestic basis Persons 35 69 171 
Operation of foreign language daily life center Domestic basis Persons 117 115 101 
Training on information protection Domestic basis Persons 15,660 18,519 23,573 
Rate of retention over 12 months after returning to work Domestic basis % 95.8 94.9 93 
Rate of those who returned to work after parental leave Domestic basis % 100 98.5 82 
Employee satisfaction survey Consolidated basis Score 70 72 73 
Average years of service (domestic overseas) Consolidated basis Years 11.6   4.4 12.3   4.1 12.0   4.0 
Ratio of days of work loss Consolidated basis % 1.416 6.071 2.317 
Lost-time injuries frequency rate Consolidated basis 10 -4% 0.022 0.090 0.037 
Occupational Illness Frequency Rate Consolidated basis 10 -4% 0 0 0 
Rate of OHSAS 18001 certification Consolidated basis % 91 91 91 
Sexual harassment preventive education Domestic basis Persons 12,178 10,627 11,724 
Completion rate of sexual harassment preventive education Domestic basis % 100 100 100 
Status of Handling by each Deliberation Organization of the  Hanwullim Counci Domestic basis Cases 47 45 63 
Completion rate of employee corruption prevention training Consolidated basis % 100 93.3 99.9 
Number of employee corruption prevention trainings Consolidated basis Cases 732 487 509 
Number of employees participated in corruption prevention trainings Consolidated basis Persons 28,956 30,775 36,025 
Anti-corruption report registration (corruption) Consolidated basis Cases 26 21 20 
Anti-corruption report registration (complaints petitions) Consolidated basis Cases 17 20 19 
Anti-corruption report registration (others) Consolidated basis Cases 2 8 3 
Compliance training Consolidated basis Times 101 28 26 
Compliance checks Consolidated basis Times 9 7 7 
Completion of compliance training Domestic basis Persons 18,630 14,314 13,713 
Scope Unit 2016 2017 2018 
Shareholder and Investor   Concerning data that are different from the main contents in this report is due to unit changes 
Sales Consolidated basis KRW million 6,033,040 6,694,046 8,002,008 
Operating profit Consolidated basis KRW million 24,400 333,861 1,149,936 
Net profit Consolidated basis KRW million 22,914 177,256 685,019 
Dividend Consolidated basis KRW million 37,916 56,803 75,690 
Cash dividend payout ratio Consolidated basis % 257.8 35.1 11.5 
Debt ratio Consolidated basis % 76.7 79.3 74.8 
R D expense Consolidated basis KRW million 408,078 460,206 532,436 
Community   Concerning data that are different from the main contents in this report is due to unit changes 
No. of persons participated in joint replacement surgery program Domestic basis Persons 42 27 29 
Joint replacement surgery program satisfaction Domestic basis Score 95 90 94 
Volunteer hours of employees Domestic basis Hours 149,151 111,628 45,661 
R D expense  Sales Consolidated basis % 6.8 6.7 6.5 
Patent registered Consolidated basis Cases 7,698 6,921 6,693 
Patent pending Consolidated basis Cases 8,232 7,241 7,238 
Interest expense of creditors Consolidated basis KRW million 49,000 66,064 90,122 
Corporate tax Consolidated basis KRW million 9,168 76,292 255,374 
Government subsidies Consolidated basis KRW million 181 21 0 
Female external directors Consolidated basis Persons 1 1 1 
Composition of board of directors (internal external directors)) Consolidated basis Persons 3 4 3 4 3 4 
Board attendance rate (internal external directors) Consolidated basis % 72.2 95.8 90.4 100 87.5 96.8 
Sales offices and subsidiaries Consolidated basis Number 16 14 15 
R D subsidiaries and centers Consolidated basis Number 2 2 2 
Production subsidiaries Consolidated basis Number 12 12 12 
Amount of donation per person Domestic basis KRW per person 9,903 9,671 9,260 
Rate of employees participating in volunteering Domestic basis % 100 100 100 
Number of volunteering teams Domestic basis Teams 102 76 67 
Social contribution expense (cash) Consolidated basis KRW million 7,825 4,638 3,088 
hello! SEM Orchestra satisfaction Domestic basis Score 96 96 95 
ESG KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 
Scope Unit 2016 2017 2018 
Scope Unit 2016 2017 2018 
To the Readers of Samsung Electro-Mechanics Sustainability Report 2018:  
Korea Management Registrar Inc. (hereinafter  KMR ) has been requested by of Samsung Electro-Mechanics to verify the contents of its 2018 Sustainability  
Report (hereinafter  the Report ). Samsung Electro-Mechanics is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. KMR s  
responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below. 
Scope and standard 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics describes its efforts and achievements of the corporate social responsibility activities in the Report. KMR performed a Type 2,  
moderate level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) and SRV1000 from KMR Global Sustainability Committee as assurance standards. KMR s assurance  
team(hereinafter  the team ) evaluated the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected GRI  
Standards indices as below, where professional judgment of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. 
The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the  Core Option  of GRI Standards which covers the followings. 
Our approach 
In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the team has carried out an  
assurance engagement as follows: 
THIRD PARTY S ASSURANCE STATEMENT 
This Report excludes a data sand information of joint corporate, contractor etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. Samsung Electro-Mechanics, among  
report boundaries. 
 GRI Standards Reporting Principles 
 Universal Standards 
 Topic Specific Standards 
 Reviewed overall report 
 Reviewed materiality test process and methodology  
 Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets 
 Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities 
 Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report 
- Management approach of Topic Specific Standards  
- Economic Performance: 201-1, 201-2, 201-3 
- Market Presence: 202-1, 202-2 
- Indirect Economic Impacts: 203-1 
- Procurement Practices: 204-1 
- Anti-Corruption: 205-1, 205-2, 205-3 
- Anti-Competitive Behavior: 206-1 
- Materials: 301-1, 301-2, 301-3 
- Energy: 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5 
- Water: 303-1, 303-2, 303-3 
- Biodiversity: 304-1, 304-2, 304-3 
- Emissions: 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7 
- Effluents and Waste: 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5 
- Environmental Compliance: 307-1 
- Supplier Environmental Assessment: 308-1, 308-2 
- Employment: 401-1, 401-2, 401-3 
- Labor Management Relations: 402-1 
- Occupational Health and Safety: 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4 
- Training and Education: 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 
- Diversity and Equal Opportunity: 405-1, 405-2 
- Non-Discrimination: 406-1 
- Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: 407-1 
- Child Labor: 408-1 
- Forced or Compulsory Labor: 409-1 
- Security Practices: 410-1 
- Rights of Indigenous Peoples: 411-1 
- Human Rights Assessment: 412-1, 412-2 
- Local Communities: 413-1 
- Supplier Social Assessment: 414-1, 414-2 
- Public Policy: 415-1 
- Marketing and Labeling: 417-2, 417-3 
- Customer Privacy: 418-1 
- Socioeconomic Compliance: 419-1 
Our conclusion 
Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with Samsung Electro-Mechanics on the revision  
of the Report. We reviewed the Report s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected.  
When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with the principles  
stipulated below. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the verification scope are not presented appropriately. 
Recommendation for improvement 
We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and we recommend the following for continuous improvements. 
Our independence 
With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMR is not involved in any other Samsung Electro-Mechanics s business operations that are  
aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. 
 Inclusivity 
 Materiality 
 Responsiveness 
  Samsung Electro-Mechanics showcases a systematic management of key sustainability indicators based on its superior performance management  
-  Samsung Electro-Mechanics is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible   
-  Samsung Electro-Mechanics is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process,   
- The assurance team could not find any evidence that Samsung Electro-Mechanics's counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. 
We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the  Core Option  of GRI standards. 
Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. 
Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence  
the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. 
Responsiveness is an organization s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions,   
and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. 
system. To prepare for the uncertainty that the 4th Industrial revolution will bring, the company is advised to identify economic, social and environmental  
risks in advance and actively search for new opportunities, thereby achieving better sustainability. 
for the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder Samsung Electro-Mechanics left out during this procedure. 
and the assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. 
THIRD PARTY S ASSURANCE STATEMENT 
June, 18 th, 2019 
The standard confidentiality principle of BSI Group Korea is applied to the all verification activities. 
Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) emissions 
Samsung Electro-Mechanics Co., Ltd. 
Data Verified:  
GHG Criteria   Protocols used for Verification:  
Verification Opinion:  
 result of carrying out verification in accordance with the protocols and the best practice mentioned above and it is the opinion of BSI that: 
For and on behalf of BSI:  Issue: 02 05 2019  Managing Director Korea, JongHo Lee 
Country Plant 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 
   Scope 3(Other GHG Emissions) accounted according to  The GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard of WRI WBCSD is described in the following Appendix. 
THIRD-PARTY GHG VERIFICATION STATEMENT 
Philippines Philippines 82,799 88,040 102,836 152,197 184,830 
Thailand Bangpakong 11,108 11,316 10,731 8,380 7,766 
Vietnam Vietnam 2,056 40,952 77,128 101,910 101,869 
Hungary Hungary 1,032 989 - - - 
Japan Japan R D Center 1,124 454 - - - 
  The annual GHG emissions for 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 calendar years inclusive. 
  The physical scope is within the boundary of the sites mentioned above. 
   GHG emissions for SCOPE 1(Direct-emissions from the plant), SCOPE 2(Indirect-energy related) and SCOPE 3(Indirect-emissions from logistic,  
  GHG Emissions of Scope 1 and Scope 2 for the period from 2014 to 2018 are as follows. 
The verification was carried out at the request of the Samsung Electro-Mechanics Co., Ltd. using: 
  The Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change - 11 December 1997 
  GHG Energy Target Management Operating Guideline (2016-255) 
  The GHG Protocol of the WRI WBCSD - Revised 2015 
  IPCC Guideline for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories - Revised 2006 
  ISO14064 Part 1   3 - Issued 2006 
  BSI GHGEV Manual   Revised September, 2018 
  The verification was conducted to provide reasonable verification in accordance with GHG Energy Target Management Scheme (2016-255) 
  No material misstatement in the calculations was revealed, good record keeping was demonstrated and related records were maintained appropriately. 
  Data quality was considered acceptable in meeting the key international principles for greenhouse gas emissions verification. 
commuting etc.) as defined in WBCSD WRI GHG protocol Chapter 4  Setting Operational Boundaries  
Total 991,154 976,760 1,021,836 1,135,721 1,276,422 
Shenzhen Logistic Ctr. 244 264 295 349 413 
Suwon 77,291 68,801 73,377 74,609 76,592 
Sejong 97,316 93,427 90,273 80,965 85,585 
Nakhonrachasima 33,280 14,195 - - - 
Busan 230,829 219,166 210,148 194,953 229,553 
Cheonan - - 2,871 17,973 29,655 
Ulsan 5,973 13,008 13,175 15,315 13,294 
Others 884 284 494 636 597 
Gaoxin 54,364 48,151 41,321 46,901 41,624 
Binhai 139,284 139,661 164,097 298,298 - 
Tianjin 111,116 111,203 110,472 1,314 336,083 
Kunshan 104,950 108,107 118,276 135,445 162,366 
Dongguan 37,504 18,742 6,342 6,476 6,195 
[Unit: tCO2e]  
Fuel and Energy Related  Activities Not Included in  Scope 1 or 2 
Transportation     Distribution (Upstream) Third-party transportation   distribution of products purchased by the  reporting company in the reporting year  55,351  165,843  
Capital Goods Extraction, Production and transportation of capital goods purchased  or acquired by the reporting company in the reporting year  2,641  2,345 
Purchased Goods   Services Extraction, production, and transportation of goods   services  purchased or acquired by the reporting company in the reporting year  33,595  37,253  
Transportation     Distribution (Downstream) Third-party transportation   distribution of products produced by the  reporting company in the reporting year - - 
GHG Emission of Scope 3 
Data Verified:  GHG Emissions from purchased goods and services, used capital goods, logistics of materials and products, waste disposal, employee business  
travel, employee commuting, leased assets, processing of products, use of sold products, end of life treatment of sold products accounted according  
to  The GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain(Scope3) Accounting and Reporting Standard of WRI WBCSD . 
Leased Assets (Upstream) Operation of assets leased by the reporting company in the reporting year 309  629  
Leased Assets (Downstream) Operation of assets owned by the reporting company and leased to  other entities in the reporting year - - No operation of  assets leased to other  entities 
Employee Commuting Transportation of employees between their homes and their worksites  11,063  11,702  
Disposal of Product Final disposal of product by end-user 77 64 
Business Travel Transportation of employees for business-related activities in vehicles  owned or operated by third parties 5,840  5,811  
Processing of Product Processing of intermediate product to final product 184 154 
Use of Product Use of product by customer 4,907 4,102  
For and on behalf of BSI:  Issue: 02 05 2019  Managing Director Korea, JongHo Lee 
Waste Disposal Third-party disposal treatment of waste generated in the reporting  company s operations in the reporting year 6,562  7,839  
Investment Emission from invested enterprise 27,891 23,098  
Category Description Reporting Year Remark 2017 2018 
All activities related to fuel and energy consumed by the reporting  company, not already accounted for in scope 1 or 2 11,137  11,170 
Total 159,556 270,012  
THIRD-PARTY GHG VERIFICATION STATEMENT 
No use of warehouse  for third party  transportation  and distribution of  products 
[ Unit: tCO2e ]  
GRI CONTENT INDEX 
Topic Index Page Related  Reports Assurance 
General Standard Disclosures 
Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization 8   
Strategy and Analysis 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5   
Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 25   
Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 6-7   
Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries 
Governance 102-18 Governance structure 70-72   
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 8   
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 19-21   
102-12 External initiatives 75-76   
102-13 Membership of associations 75-76   
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 72   
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 72   
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 70   
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 8, 70   
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body s performance 71   
102-32 Highest governance body s role in sustainability reporting 24   
102-36 Process for determining remuneration 71   
102-37 Stakeholders  involvement in remuneration 78   
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 78, Business  report 264   
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 21-22, 67   
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 47-48   
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 25   
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 25   
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 25-27   
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 22   
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 26-27   
102-47 List of material topics 26-27   
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Business report  3-9   
102-19 Delegating authority 8, 70-72   
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental,   and social topics 8   
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8-16   
102-3 Location of headquarters 8-9   
102-4 Location of operations 8-9   
102-5 Ownership and legal form 70-72   
102-6 Markets served 16-18   
102-7 Scale of the organization 8-9   
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 42-43   
102-9 Supply chain 8-9   
Anti-corruption 
Procurement Practices 
Market Presence 
Indirect Economic Impacts 
Specific Standard Disclosures: Economic Category 
Economic Performance 
Topic Index Page Related  Reports Assurance 
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 20, 22   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 32   
Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 78   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to   local minimum wage 49   
Indirect Economic  Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 82-83   
Report Profile 102-50 Reporting period 2   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
102-49 Changes in reporting 2, 8-9   
102-51 Date of most recent report 2   
102-52 Reporting cycle 2   
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2   
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2   
102-55 GRI content index 2   
102-56 External assurance 98-99   
102-48 Restatements of information 2   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 22-23   
103-2 The management approach and its components 22-23   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22-23   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 32-33   
103-2 The management approach and its components 32-33   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32-33   
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to   climate change 20   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 16-18   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 77-79   
103-2 The management approach and its components 16-18   
103-2 The management approach and its components 77-79   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 16-18   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 77-79   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 16-18   
103-2 The management approach and its components 16-18   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 16-18   
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 78   
202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 43   
GRI CONTENT INDEX 
Biodiversity 
Anti-competitive Behavior 
Specific Standard Disclosures: Environmental Category 
Topic Index Page Related  Reports Assurance 
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected  areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 8-9   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 57   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 94   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Anti-competitive  Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust,   and monopoly practices 23   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 94   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 57-60   
103-2 The management approach and its components 57-60   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 57-60   
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 60   
304-3 Habitats protected or restored 60   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 57-58   
103-2 The management approach and its components 57-58   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 57-58   
303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 57   
303-3 Water recycled and reused 58   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 61-64   
103-2 The management approach and its components 61-64   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 61-64   
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 94   
302-3 Energy intensity 94   
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 94   
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 15   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 22-23   
103-2 The management approach and its components 22-23   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22-23   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 32-33   
103-2 The management approach and its components 32-33   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32-33   
301-2 Recycled input materials used 94   
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 60   
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 23   
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 74   
Specific Standard Disclosures: Social Category 
Employment 
Supplier Environmental Assessment 
Environmental Compliance 
Effluents and Waste 
Topic Index Page Related  Reports Assurance 
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 95-96   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Supplier  Environmental  Assessment 
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Environmental  Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No violation incident   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 95   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 61   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 42-43   
103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42-43   
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 78   
401-3 Parental leave 95-96   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 34-37   
103-2 The management approach and its components 34-37   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34-37   
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 34-35   
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 37   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 56   
103-2 The management approach and its components 56   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 56   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 57-60   
103-2 The management approach and its components 57-60   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 57-60   
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 59   
306-3 Significant spills No spill occurred   
306-4 Transport of hazardous waste No Waste   
306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and or runoff 8-9   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 57-60   
103-2 The management approach and its components 57-60   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 57-60   
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 61   
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 62   
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 61   
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 62   
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant   air emissions 95   
GRI CONTENT INDEX 
Training and Education 
Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
Non-discrimination 
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 
Occupational Health and Safety 
Topic Index Page Related  Reports Assurance 
Labor Management Relations 
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Training and   Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 44   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Diversity and Equal  Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 42-43   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No discrimination   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Labor Management  Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 48   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Occupational Health  and Safety 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management   worker health and safety committees 51   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days,   and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 95-96   
403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to   their occupation 51   
403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 51   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 44-46   
103-2 The management approach and its components 44-46   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44-46   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 42-43   
103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42-43   
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 48   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 47-48   
103-2 The management approach and its components 47-48   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47-48   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 47-48   
103-2 The management approach and its components 47-48   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47-48   
103-2 The management approach and its components 47-50   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47-50   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 51-53   
103-2 The management approach and its components 51-53   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51-53   
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and   career development reviews 45   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 47-50   
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 45   
Human Rights Assessment 
Rights of Indigenous Peoples 
Security Practices 
Forced or Compulsory Labor 
Supplier Social Assessment 
Child Labor 
Local Communities 
Topic Index Page Related  Reports Assurance 
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Human Rights  Assessment 412-2 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or   impact assessments 47   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Rights of Indigenous  Peoples 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples No such incidents  occurred   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures 21   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Forced or Compulsory  Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or  compulsory labor 37, 47   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 37, 47   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments,  and development programs 82-83   
Freedom of  Association and  Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 37, 47   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 35-36, 47-48   
103-2 The management approach and its components 35-36, 47-48   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35-36, 47-48   
412-1 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 22, 47   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 47-48   
103-2 The management approach and its components 47-48   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47-48   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 47-48   
103-2 The management approach and its components 47-48   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47-48   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 47-48   
103-2 The management approach and its components 47-48   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47-48   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 34-37   
103-2 The management approach and its components 34-37   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34-37   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 47-48   
103-2 The management approach and its components 47-48   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47-48   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 82-83   
103-2 The management approach and its components 82-83   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 82-83   
GRI CONTENT INDEX 
Socioeconomic Compliance 
Customer Privacy 
Marketing and Labeling 
Public Policy 
Topic Index Page Related  Reports Assurance 
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Socioeconomic  Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and   economic area No violation  incident   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy  and losses of customer data No violation  incident   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Marketing and  Labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service  information and labeling No violation  incident   
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Not applicable   
Supplier Social  Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 35   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 22-23   
103-2 The management approach and its components 22-23   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22-23   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 20-21   
103-2 The management approach and its components 20-21   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 20-21   
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications No violation  incident   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 30-31   
103-2 The management approach and its components 30-31   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30-31   
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 6-7   
103-2 The management approach and its components 6-7   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 6-7   
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 37   