TSMC 2020  Corporate Social  Responsibility Report 
11  Sustainable Products by TSMC Facilitates Global Energy Conservation 
12  TSMC Supplier Sustainability Academy Shares Free Learning Resources 
13  First Automated Handling System for Wafer Warehouses in the World 
14  TSMC Semiconductor Programs Cultivate Next-generation Talent  
15  Aiding Global Prevention   Treatment Efforts against COVID-19 
04  Letter from the ESG Steering   Committee Chairperson  
05  Letter from the ESG Committee  Chairperson  
06  About TSMC  
07  TSMC Value  
08  Sustainability at TSMC  
09  Awards, Recognitions and Ratings 
Sustainable Business Practices Overview 
ESG Feature Stories  
17  ESG Implementation Framework  
18  ESG Management Platform 
21  Materiality Analysis and  Stakeholder Communication 
33  Sustainability Impact  
37  Carrying Out the UN Sustainable  Development Goals 
Operations and Governance 
190  Corporate Governance  
194  Financial Performance  
196  Tax Policy  
197  Corporate Information Security  
Sustainability Roles  
An Innovation  Pioneer 
41  Innovation  Management    
58  Product Quality  
67  Customer Service 
A Responsible  Purchaser 
73  Supplier  Sustainability  Management  
A Practitioner of  Green Power 
  89  Climate Change and   Energy Management  
103  Water Management  
112  Waste Management  
122  Air Pollution Control 
202  About this Report  
205  Participation in Industry  Associations and Non-profit  Organizations  
206  ESG Performance Summary  
208  GRI Standards Comparison Table 
An Admired  Employer 
130  Talent Attraction  and Retention  
140  Talent Development  
145  Human Rights  
150  Occupational Safety  
and Health  
225  Climate ChangeManagement Framework 
227  Sustainability Accounting Standards  Board  
229  Independent Third Party Assurance  Statement  
230  Contact Information 
Power to Change  Society 
166  The Drive for  Common Good 
167  TSMC Education and  Culture Foundation  
176  TSMC Charity  Foundation 
Building a Mountain of  Common Good  
An infinite planet where all beings thrive.  
TSMC is committed to responsible management.  Innovation and sustainability are our guiding principles  as we strive to build a world of inclusion and common good  from our sphere of IC chips and wafers.  
In our pursuit for common good, we have made  solid strides with employees, customers, suppliers, investors, and society to scale insurmountable peaks and to strive for better.  
We galvanize all positive energy for sustainable management and shared prosperity. Join us. Let us create common good and ascend towards a sustainable future of  infinite possibilities. 
Letter from the ESG Steering Committee Chairperson 
2020 was an extremely challenging year as the world experienced  
social and economic upheaval brought by the COVID-19 pandemic,  
and natural disasters occurring under extreme climate conditions  
left us with a deep impression of the threat and impact of climate  
change on humanity. The importance of ESG (Environmental,  
Social, and Governance) is gradually becoming a global consensus.  
As a responsible corporate citizen, TSMC endeavors to respond  
to climate change and mitigate climate impact to protect our  
shared global environment. In addition to signing the world's  
largest renewable energy purchase agreement in 2020, we further  
committed to using 100% renewable energy for global operations  
before 2050, becoming the world's first semiconductor company to  
join the RE100 initiative. 
Over the years, TSMC has held its vision of uplifting society.   
We not only focus on our core business to unleash innovation  
with groundbreaking thinkers around the world, but also have  
systematically charted a long-term strategic direction for our ESG.  
The ESG Steering Committee serves as the center for the highest  
level of ESG decision-making. With myself serving as Chairperson,  
the ESG Steering Committee works with senior TSMC executives in a  
variety of fields to link the United Nations' Sustainable Development  
Goals (SDGs) with the Company's core competitive advantages.  
Our five focal points are Green Manufacturing, Responsible Supply  
Chain, Diverse   Inclusive Workplace, Talent Development, and  
Caring for the Disadvantaged. In 2020, the ESG Steering Committee  
pursued its goal of sustainable development and explored  
international ESG trends, evaluation standards, and corporate best  
practices. At the same time, it set TSMC's long-term ESG goals,  
strategies, and public declarations and took a fresh look at how we  
execute them. We also launched TSMC's first internal CSR Award to  
Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer 
In addition, under the approval and supervision of the ESG Steering  
Committee, in 2020 TSMC brought its unique set of professional know- 
how and resources to support the global fight against the COVID-19  
pandemic. In addition to keeping our colleagues healthy and safe and  
maintaining normal operations, we also provided needed support to  
society. We budgeted US 20 million to provide for the communities  
where we operate, including Taiwan, China, Japan, Europe, the United  
States, and other areas in urgent need of resources, playing our role as  
a corporate citizen through tangible action. 
Based on a foundation of healthy corporate governance, TSMC  
actively carries out its three missions of Acting with Integrity,  
Strengthening Environmental Protection, and Caring for the  
Disadvantaged. Starting from our core business, we set goals for  
execution, evaluate action plans, and maintain positive interactions  
with our stakeholders to continue creating value. In addition,  
I would like to extend my thanks to everyone in the Company.  
It is only because of everyone's enthusiastic cooperation and  
persistence that we can continue to improve, grow stronger, and  
further meet our commitments to society and the environment to  
drive beautiful changes in society. 
encourage our colleagues to think creatively and participate actively  
to bring many innovative projects to life. 
Mark Liu Chairman and ESG Steering Committee Chairperson 
ESG Feature Stories 
An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Letter from the ESG Committee Chairperson 
In 2020, the world was ravaged by the COVID -19 pandemic. TSMC  
took comprehensive disease prevention measures to ensure that  
operations could continue at wafer fabs around the world and  
went on to realize 11,617 product innovations for our customers.  
With innovative technologies, people are able to work and learn  
remotely. To reduce contact and gatherings, people can use AR MR  
technologies to replace business trips, and smart robots to replace  
manual labor for delivering resources. TSMC stands in solidarity with  
everyone enduring this challenging time, and we strive to contribute  
to the health and welfare of the world.  
During this time, we also worked with stakeholders to continue realizing  
our Five Major ESG directions as we resolutely progressed towards the  
UN's Sustainable Development Goals. In terms of Green Manufacturing,  
TSMC is actively using renewable energies, implementing 460 energy- 
saving measures, and introducing new generations of energy-efficient  
equipment. External research results have shown that we save 4GWh  
of energy for every 1 GWh of energy used by TSMC for the production of  
end products for customers. By increasing our energy efficiency, we are  
able to mitigate the impact of climate change. 
In regards to Building a Responsible Supply Chain, TSMC was able  
to drive NT 1.7 trillion in output value among related industries in  
2020. Each TSMC employee creates, on average, 6.4 job opportunities  
in Taiwan. We shoulder the responsibility that comes with being an  
industry leader and have established Supply Online 360, a management  
platform for a sustainable supply chain, as well as the TSMC Supplier  
Sustainability Academy. To extend the high standards applied to TSMC  
Operations and Green Manufacturing, we have also asked suppliers to  
conduct EP L assessment and carbon footprint verification, as well as  
set and strive for energy and water conservation goals. 
Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer 
In order to Create a Diverse   Inclusive Workplace, TSMC expanded  
our Human Rights Policy's scope of management to support  
employee and company growth on the basis of a healthy work- 
life balance. Investments into Talent Development include the  
expanded Semiconductor Program and IC Design Program.  
We are also providing resources through university research  
centers and industry-academia programs to foster generations  
of semiconductor professionals. Lastly, when it comes to Caring  
for the Disadvantaged, TSMC continues to support global  
prevention and treatment efforts against COVID -19 through the  
TSMC Education and Culture Foundation and the TSMC Charity  
Foundation  we have also galvanized efforts from subsidiaries  
around the world to contribute to the common good.  
TSMC has taken tangible action to support the global sustainability  
movement, and we are the only semiconductor company in the  
world to be selected into the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI)  
for 20 consecutive years. As we look to our future, we will stay  
true to our unwavering commitment to responsible operations.  
We hope that every TSMC colleague stands firm at their post and  
continues to bring positive changes to our world.  
Lora Ho Senior Vice President and ESG Committee Chairperson 
ESG Feature Stories 
An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
About TSMC 
As COVID-19 ravages nations and introduces instability and tense geopolitical situations, TSMC is more committed than  
ever to using innovation for greater social welfare. Based on our trinity of strengths that includes technology leadership,  
manufacturing excellence, and customer trust, our mission is to be the trusted technology and capacity provider of the  
global logic IC industry for years to come. In 2020, TSMC's consolidated revenue reached NT 1,339.3 billion, setting a  
new record for 11 consecutive years. While we continue to strive for greater business milestones, we also aim to develop  
strong relationships with stakeholders such as employees, shareholders, customers, and suppliers in order to fulfill our  
responsibilities as a corporate citizen. We will continue dedicating ourselves to environmental protection, society, and  
corporate governance to create common value for a sustainable future. 
Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Headquarters 
Founded in  
Number of   Employees 
Hsinchu Science Park 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer 
517.89 Billion 
Setting revenue records for 11  
consecutive years 
Net Income (NT ) 
ESG Feature Stories 
Revenue Percentage by Customer HQ Location Revenue Percentage by Product Platform 
North America 
Mainland China 
Asia Pacific excluding Japan and  Mainland China 
 12.4 Million Wafers 
subsidiaries exceeded 12.4 million 12- 
Annual capacity of the manufacturing  
facilities managed by TSMC and its  
processes for volumn production,  
maintaining leading position 
First foundry to apply 5nm  
inch equivalent wafers 
62% 11% 17% 5% 5% 48% 33% 8% 3% 4% 4% 
Europe, Middle East, and  Africa 
total wafer revenue, up from 50%  
World's largest capacity provider  
  beyond) accounted for 58% of  
Advanced technologies (16nm  
An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
for logic ICs 
Smart Phones 
High Performance Computing 
Internet of Things 
and technical support to customers  
countries to offer real-time services  
America, Europe, Japan, Mainland  
offices throughout Taiwan, North  
11,617 different products for 510  
technologies and manufactured  
510 Customers 
China, South Korea, and other  
TSMC has fabs, subsidiaries or  
Used 281 distinct process  
around the world. 
Consumer Electronics 
Other Products 
Automotive Electronics 
customers  
TSMC Value  
Customer  Products   Applications  
Technology  Platforms  
Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
     Application Processors (AP) 
     Baseband 
     RF Transceivers 
     Wireless Local Area Networks (WLAN) 
     CMOS Image Sensors (CIS) 
     Near Field Communication (NFC) 
     Bluetooth 
     Global Positioning Systems (GPS), etc. 
Make Communication More  Efficient and Work, Play, and  Learn Anytime and Anywhere 
Smartphone Internet of Things (IoT)  Digital Consumer  Electronics  Automotive High Performance  Computing  
   Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs)    AI Machine Learning Processors    High-speed Networking Chips, etc.  
   Central Processing Units (CPUs) 
   Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) 
Enable 5G, AI, Cloud, and Data  Center Applications to Process  Vast Amounts of Data and  Information Anywhere and  Anytime 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer 
ESG Feature Stories 
     Ultra Low-Power Microcontroller  Unit (MCU) 
     Baseband 
     RF Transceivers 
     Wireless Local Area Networks  (WLAN) 
     CMOS Image Sensors (CIS) 
     Near Field Communication (NFC) 
     Bluetooth 
     Embedded Flash Memory, etc. 
Empower Wearables, Smart  Homes, Smart Cities, and  Industry 4.0 Applications 
     Supercomputer Capabilities for  Every Car 
     Microcontroller Unit (MCU) 
     Baseband 
     RF Transceivers 
     Wireless Local Area Networks (WLAN) 
     CMOS Image Sensors (CIS) 
     Near Field Communication (NFC) 
     Bluetooth 
     Embedded Flash Memory 
     Power Management ICs, etc. 
Make Vehicles, Including  Hybrid and Electrical Cars,  Safer, Smarter and Greener 
    Continue to advance and expand TSMC 3DFabric TM 
    Continue to drive semiconductor  scaling for both logic and specialty  process technologies     Continue to expand specialty  technology offerings 
Innovations for Sustainability  
TSMC continues to advance semiconductor manufacturing process technologies  and services to enable our customers to unleash 11,617 IC innovations in 2020.  These innovations offer products that are more advanced, capable, intelligent,  energy-efficient, and safer, and allow us to greatly increase quality of life and  move towards a sustainable society for the common good. 
Technology   Development Focus  
An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
     Microcontroller Unit (MCU) 
     Baseband 
     RF Transceivers 
     Wireless Local Area  Networks (WLAN) 
     CMOS Image Sensors (CIS) 
     Near Field Communication  (NFC) 
     Bluetooth 
     Embedded Flash Memory 
Empower AI-enabled Smart Devices 
    Boost product computing power 
    Increase product energy efficiency 
    Enable smaller form factor 
    Provide greater chip design flexibility 
Benefits to Product  Innovation  
     Power Management ICs 
     Timing Controller (T-CON) 
     Other Applications for  Smart 8K 4K Digital TV  (DTV) 
     4K Streaming Set-top  Box (STB) 
     AI-embedded Smart  Camera, etc. 
Sustainability at TSMC 
Increase in volunteers 26% 
Unleashing  innovation by  investing US  3.72  billion,  a 26%  increase from 2020,  into R D 
Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Leading the  world in volume  production of  5nm process  technology 
Economy Environment Society 
Patent approval rate in the  U.S., better than any other  top 10 patent holder 
Total shareholder return 
14.2 Trillion Market  capitalization  (NT ) 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer 
1.32 Billion Invested into social  engagement  (NT ) 
ESG Feature Stories 
Beneficiaries  of social  engagement 
Million  Participants 
1.8 Million In 2020, the average  overall salary of a  TSMC new engineer  with a master's degree  is more than NT 1.8  million. The average  overall salary of direct  employees is higher  than NT 1 million,  which is 4 times of the  minimum wage in  Taiwan 
Over one million  participants received  employee training and  total expense exceeded  NT 95 million 
An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
100% renewable energy  consumption in TSMC  offices in Taiwan and  overseas locations   achieved net zero emissions  for global offices through  carbon credits 
Reached 95% waste  recycling rate for six  consecutive years  and only  1% of  waste has been sent  to landfills for 11  consecutive years 1 
First semiconductor  company in the world  to join RE100 
Built the world's  first water  reclamation plant  for industrial  effluents 
Reduced air pollutant emissions  per unit product by 46% since  2015, reaching the 2030 SDG  ahead of schedule 
Awards, Recognitions and Ratings 
Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the 20 th  Consecutive Year 
Dow Jones Sustainability Emerging Markets Index 
The Sustainability Yearbook 2020 Rankings    
S P Global Gold Class 
2020 Climate Change A List   A- 
2020 Water Security A List   A 
RE100 Leadership Awards 2020   Most Impactful Pioneer 
"Prime" Rated by ISS ESG Corporate Rating 
MSCI ACWI ESG Leaders Index Component 
MSCI ESG Research   AAA Ratings 
MSCI ACWI SRI Index Component 
MSCI Emerging Markets ESG Leaders Index 
FTSE4Good Emerging Index Component 
FTSE4Good All-world Index Component 
FTSE4Good TIP Taiwan ESG Index Component 
SDG 2000   The 2,000 Most Influential Companies 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer 
ESG Feature Stories 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 2021 IEEE Corporate Innovation Award 
Wall Street Journal The 100 Most Sustainably Managed Companies in the World 
FORTUNE 2020 World's Most Admired Companies 
Forbes The World's Best Employers 2020 
Institutional Investor Magazine 
Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) "Platinum" Class Certification   Fab 15A, Fab 15B 
Taiwan Stock Exchange Top 5% in Corporate Governance Evaluation of Listed Companies for  the 6 th Consecutive Year 
Sustainalytics "Top-Rated" ESG Company within the Semiconductor Industry 
Corporate Knights 2020 Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations 
Corporate Knights   As You Sow 2020 Carbon Clean 200TM List   1 st Place 
Cheers Magazine Ranked No.1 in Top 10 Most Admired Companies to Young Generations 
CommonWealth Magazine Corporate Social Responsibility Award   Large Cap   1 st Place 
Taiwan Institute of Sustainable Energy 
An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Most Honored Company (Technology Semiconductors)   All-Asia Best ESG (Technology Semiconductors)   1 st Place (Buy-side and  Sell-side)   All-Asia 
The Most Prestigious Sustainability Awards   Top Ten Domestic  Corporates for the 5 th Consecutive Year  Taiwan Top 50 Corporate Responsibility Report Awards   Electronic  Information Manufacturing   Platinum Award English Report   Platinum Award Sustainable Water Management Award Climate Leadership Award Supply Chain Management Award 
ESG Feature Stories  
Sustainable Products by TSMC Facilitates Global Energy Conservation  
TSMC Supplier Sustainability Academy Shares Free Learning Resources  
First Automated Handling System for Wafer Warehouses in the World  
TSMC Semiconductor Programs Cultivate Next-generation Talent  
Aiding Global Prevention   Treatment Efforts against COVID-19 
Sustainable Products by TSMC Facilitates Global  Energy Conservation 
TSMC believes in thorough green innovation.  
Internally, we are striving for clean production in all  
fabs, implementing 460 energy-saving measures  
and conserving 500 GWh in 2020. Externally, we are  
leading the world in high-performance, energy- 
saving semiconductor technologies that enable  
customers to deliver energy-efficient products.  
Calculations using the Industry, Science, and  
Technology International Strategy Center's model  
reveal that, in 2020, TSMC helped the world  
conserve 4 kWh of energy for each 1 kWh spent in  
production - a testimony to TSMC's commitment to  
green manufacturing both internally and externally. 
TSMC Contributions to Global Energy Conservation 
    Leader of  innovation  and advanced  semiconductor  process  technologies 
    Produce more  advanced and  energy-efficient  semiconductor  products 
ESG Directions Green Manufacturing 
Semiconductor  Products Role of TSMC Facilitate Energy-Efficient ICT  Technologies and Product  Applications 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Realize applications  of new technologies  and support global  inclusive growth of  AIoT 
    AI IC Chip 
    5G high-speed  transmission IC  chip     High-speed  transmission IC  chip  
Smart Manufacturing: Use an Internet  of Machines (IoM) to increase production  efficiency, accelerate the development of new  products, and offer real-time supply chain  scheduling 
Smart Energy: Introduce a smart grid to create  a real-time connection between energy supply  demand and increase generating efficiency 
Smart Building: Integrate building software  and remote control technologies to achieve  smart homes and smart offices 
Referring to research results from the American  
Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy (ACEEE),  
the ISTI discovered that the link between economic  
growth and increasing energy consumption can  
be decoupled with the introduction of electronic  
products and smart product applications. The  
adoption of Information and Communication  
Technology (ICT) can also add value to industry  
productivity, increasing output for the same amount  
of resource input (energy, etc.). Upon further  
analysis, it was discovered that electronic products  
using semiconductors at its core can help conserve  
10.7% of global energy (equivalent to 3.27 million  
GWh) in 2030. Considering the semiconductor  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Semiconductor  products are  estimated to help  conserve 3.27 million  GWh globally in  2030  TSMC will be  contributing to 0.17  million GWh of the  energy conserved 
Facilitate  Energy  Conservation 
electronic product ratio and TSMC market share,  
TSMC products produced for customers will  
conserve 0.17 million GWh in 2030, which is four  
times the energy consumed during production.  
With the help of research development that has  
introduced ways to make products and processes  
more energy efficient, TSMC continues to realize  
increasingly energy-efficient ICT applications and  
thereby assists other industries and communities  
with energy conservation. 
TSMC is dedicated to maintaining its  
technology leadership and strives to  
reduce energy consumption during the  
production process for the advancement of  
semiconductor innovation, various smart  
applications of electronic products, and  
energy conservation on a global scale. 
Stephen Su  
Vice President and General Director at ITRI  Industry, Science and Technology   International Strategy Center (ISTI), and   Director of AI Applications Strategy Office 
Each 1 kWh devoted to  
production conserves  
 4 kWh for the world 
TSMC continues to lead the world in high-performance  energy-saving semiconductor technologies, helping  customers produce energy-efficient end products. 
Energy Consumption per Unit Product by TSMC  Process Technology  Note 
Global Energy Consumption Simulation 
2011 2020 2015 2024 2013 2022 2017 2026 2012 2021 2016 2025 2014 2023 2018 2027 2029 2019 2028 2030 
55nm Ultra- low power  1.2V  
Global Electricity Consumption  (Million GWh) 
Scenario 2: Normal Growth  in Electronic Products  Application 
10nm  0.75V  40nm Ultra- low power  1.1V  
28nm High  performance  mobile  computing  0.9V  
Scenario 1: No Growth  in Electronic Products  Application 
Scenario 3: Accelerated  Growth in Electronic  Products Application 
16 12nm  Compact   0.8V  
0.07 0.056 0.034 0.022 
7nm  0.75V  5nm  0.75V  
0.68 Million GWh Saved 
1.90 Million  GWh Saved 
1.37 Million  GWh Saved 
Scope of Influence of TSMC Supplier  Sustainability Academy  
TSMC Supplier Sustainability Academy Shares Free  Learning Resources 
TSMC has a massive supply chain that spans across  
the world and the Company is always thinking of  
management directives to strengthen the capability  
and resilience of its supply chain and extend its  
influence to upstream suppliers of its own suppliers.  
In 2020, the Company founded the TSMC Supplier  
Sustainability Academy and started creating and  
sharing online courses and management tools  
for free. By designating compulsory courses and  
tracking training status, the Company was able to  
ESG Directions Responsible Supply Chain 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Tier 1 TSMC  Suppliers 
Tier 2 TSMC  Suppliers 
General Public 
ensure that tier 1 suppliers continued to improve  
their sustainability management capabilities and  
help supplier employees understand their labor  
rights. TSMC hopes that this can effectively raise  
labor rights awareness across the supply chain  
and help supplier employees protect themselves.  
Meanwhile, the Company has made the TSMC  
Supplier Sustainability Academy available to tier 2  
suppliers (suppliers of TSMC's suppliers) and the  
general public upon registration. 
As a supplier, we felt that the establishment  
of the TSMC Supplier Sustainability  
Academy not only encourages us to make  
progress but also provides corresponding  
resources to help the supply chain work  
together for common good. 
Andrew Chang  
General Manager of Taiwan Speciality Chemicals  Corporation 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
TSMC Supplier Sustainability  Academy Steering Committee  Chairperson and Curriculum Blueprint 
The first courses launched for the TSMC Supplier  
Sustainability Academy revolved around the TSMC  
Supplier Code of Conduct. There were five interactive,  
compulsory courses on labor, safety and health,  
environmental protection, and ethics. Each course  
was designed to contain an exam upon completion  
to ensure the quality of learning. All tier 1 suppliers  
are asked to complete 100% of the training in 2021. 
As the curriculum required integration of internal  
resources, the Material Supply Chain Management  
Section convened a TSMC Supplier Sustainability  
Academy Steering Committee, organizing 7 major  
courses across the organization. With the online  
learning platform, the Company will continue  
to advance supplier capabilities in operations  
and quality management to further deepen its  
sustainability impact. 
100% of tier 1 suppliers have  completed trainings     Convene working meetings every two quarters to: (1) formulate the  curriculum program, (2) integrate inter-organizational resources, and  (3) continue perfecting the program 
    Report annual progress and work plans to the Dean and Steering  Committee Chairperson every year 
TSMC Supplier Sustainability Academy  Management Platform 
TSMC Supplier Sustainability Academy Steering Committee Chairperson Appointed by head of supply chain management 
Dean of the TSMC Supplier Sustainability Academy Head of supply chain management 
Occupational Safety and Health  Curriculum Committee 
ESG Curriculum Committee 
Supply Chain Management   Curriculum Committee 
Environmental Protection   Curriculum Committee 
Regulatory Compliance   Curriculum Committee 
Quality Control   Curriculum Committee 
Information Security   Curriculum Committee 
Appointed by department  heads of Materials  Management   Risk  Management, Corporate  Environmental Protection,  Safety, and Health, Quality  and Reliability, Intelligent  Engineering Center,  Corporate Information  Security, Legal    Regulatory Compliance,  and ESG 
First Automated Handling System for Wafer  Warehouses in the World 
TSMC is always looking to implement applicable  
international standards. Since implementing the  
Electronic Human Factors System, the Company has  
continued to identify workplace hazards and conduct  
risk assessment and control for the uncovering,  
analysis, and elimination of occupational hazards.  
TSMC strives to create a healthy and safe workplace  
for our employees. In 2020, to effectively reduce  
ergonomic hazards from long-term, repetitive  
operations that warehouse employees must endure,  
TSMC has developed the world's first Automated  
Handling System for Wafer Warehouses. The system  
has been officially launched at Fab 18A and is being  
introduced to Fab 14A. It can effectively reduce 95%  
of the load for warehouse employees per person per  
TSMC Automated Handling System for Wafer Warehouses 
Traditional  Process Transfer to storage  area Take out  manually Dispatch raw wafers  manually 
Automatic  Process 
Unloading  dock 
ESG Directions Diverse and Inclusive Workplace 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Manually remove the  fixing strap, open the  package and put the box  on the conveyor 
Manually remove the  fixing strap and open  the package 
Buffer area Storage area Unpack Put in 
Automated  guided  vehicle 
Take out FOSB  from Hybox by  robot 
day. By the end of 2022, the system will be gradually  
introduced into all of the 12-inch GIGAFAB  Facilities  
in Taiwan. 
TSMC Grows With Employees:  Transforming Power to Brainpower  with On-the-job Training 
Wafers, a raw material that is required for TSMC  
production, is delivered to our loading docks every day  
by suppliers. TSMC warehouse employees will then take  
out the packaged wafers, place them on a conveyor  
belt, and transport it to the clean room for production.  
To build a safer workplace and optimize efficiency  
of daily operational processes, TSMC has launched  
a Human Factor Engineering- Wafer Warehouse  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Dispatch  raw wafers  automatically 
Transport to  clean room 
Automation project where we install an Automated  
Handling Systems for Wafer Warehouses and reduced  
the handling load for each warehouse employee  
by 1.8 metric tons per day. With the introduction of  
the automated system, the Material Supply Chain  
Management Section will be adjusting job duties and  
offering on-the-job trainings to warehouse employees.  
Employees originally working in loading will now be  
channeled into supply chain management, process  
integration, and other more technical duties to help the  
employee grow with the Company. 
Reduced 95%  manual handling  load for employees 95% 
The first thing I used to think of when I  
opened my eyes every day was the endless  
stream of wafer cassettes that I would have  
to handle. With the automated handling  
system, I no longer suffer from back pains  
and have been given the opportunity and  
new mission to learn about supply chain  
management. The work now is definitely  
more fulfilling!  
Chung Yang-Yi  
Section Manager of the Material   Supply Chain Management Section at TSMC 
Robotic arm places wafer cassettes onto conveyor belt and into the warehouse. 
Roll-out Schedule for the TSMC Automated  Handling System for Wafer Warehouses 
Q1: Feasibility study for the Automated Handling  System for Wafer Warehouses Q2: System design  Space planning for system implementation in  new facilities Q3: Standardized design for packaging specs 
Q1: System prototype testing Q4: Fab 18A implementation completed 
Q1: Fab 18A System launch Q3: Fab 14A System implementation 
Q1: Fab 15A System implementation Q3: Fab 18B System implementation  Fab 14B System implementation Q4: Fab 12B System implementation 
Q1: Fab 15A System implementation Q2: Fab 15B System implementation 
TSMC Semiconductor Programs Cultivate Next-generation Talent 
TSMC launched a series of semiconductor programs  
in partnership with six universities in Taiwan to  
raise the competencies of semiconductor talents in  
Taiwan. The programs bridge students to industry  
trends and development so that they can effectively  
apply their academic knowledge to the development  
of advanced semiconductor process technologies  
that are increasingly complex. Jointly developed  
by TSMC experts in various fields and partnering  
university professors, the courses focus on three  
aspects, Device Integration, Process Module, and  
Equipment Engineering. Each program covers 20  
TSMC Semiconductor Programs at Taiwan Local Universities  
Schools  Track Device   Integration Process   Module Equipment  Engineering  
National Tsing Hua University 
National Taiwan University NEW 
National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University NEW 
National Cheng Kung University NEW 
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology NEW 
National Taipei University of Technology NEW 
ESG Directions Talent Development 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
to 40 courses on specific subjects planned by a  
curriculum development committee consisting of  
TSMC executives who also teach classes to bridge the  
gap between academia and industry and to equip  
students with core knowledge and competencies  
required for semiconductor talents in advance. As of  
2020, a total of 650 students have enrolled in TSMC's  
semiconductor programs as elective courses.   
Partnership with 6  universities 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
The semiconductor programs also provide students  
with internship opportunities and job interviews.  
Differentiated compensation packages are offered to  
proactive and outstanding students as an incentive  
to join the semiconductor industry. The program is  
expected to include 10 universities by 2024,  which will  
bring up the number of student beneficiaries to 1,800.  
The three primary course themes will also extend to  
five areas of expertise to cover IC design and intelligent  
manufacturing. Amid global competition and challenges,  
the program will be a consistent effort to enhance  
industry competitiveness in Taiwan in the long run. 
Most of the students are not quite clear about which courses  
will be helpful for their future career. TSMC's semiconductor  
programs provide a comprehensive framework to help  
students better understand the connection between courses  
and the practices. The programs also provide students  
with necessary knowledge and competitiveness in the  
semiconductor field to accelerate the learning curve after  
joining the workforce. 
Chih Chen  
Department Chair of Material Science and Engineering, National  Yang Ming Chiao Tung University 
TSMC launched a series of semiconductor programs in partnership with six universities in Taiwan. 
Semiconductor programs are like a precious book. It  
helps me to start studying related courses as well as to  
prepare myself with the necessary knowledge and ability  
earlier, so that I can get ready for either doing research or  
joining the industry. 
Shi-Chih Yang  
Student at Department of Material Science and Engineering,  National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University 
Aiding Global Prevention   Treatment Efforts against COVID-19 
In 2020, TSMC budgeted US 20 million to join  
global efforts against COVID-19 and also brought  
its unique set of professional know-how and  
resources in global procurement and supply chain  
management to provide support for in-need  
medical or educational institutes in locations where  
the Company operates. 
    Equipment Donations to Sustain the  Health System 
In Taiwan, the TSMC Charity Foundation supplied  
powered air-purifying respirators (PAPR) to medical  
centers to reduce risk of infection among frontline  
medical workers  the TSMC Education and Culture  
Foundation donated infrared cameras to the Ministry  
of Education which would be used in national entrance  
exams, etc. to protect the safety of our students. 
Globally, TSMC North America donated sufficient  
supplies of critical personal protective equipment  
ESG Directions Caring for the Disadvantaged 
US 20Million  
Allocated to support  COVID-19 relief efforts  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
and ventilators to local public health agencies,  
and its donation efforts also assisted in supporting  
the County's Field Respite Center established for  
quarantined COVID-19 patients. It also provided  
relief to vulnerable communities with immediate  
food, shelter and medical aid. TSMC Europe donated  
personal protective equipment, respirators, and other  
ICU equipment to medical centers across Europe  and  
also took advantage of its supply chain and logistics  
management resources to accelerate the delivery  
of medical supplies and equipment. In Asia, TSMC  
(Nanjing) donated protective clothing, goggles, gloves,  
and other necessities to community health centers   
and computers to local schools and after-school care  
centers to ensure that students will be able to have  
unlimited access to online learning resources despite  
the pandemic. TSMC Japan collaborated with local  
governments to donate supplies to support COVID-19  
prevention and treatment efforts. 
Support for Research on Vaccines  and Medical Equipment to Protect  Developing Nations 
Throughout the pandemic, TSMC also supported  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Top: The Hospital Quir nsalud Toledo in Spain receiving ventilators donated by TSMC. Middle: Sophie Chang, TSMC Charity Foundation Chairperson, helping medical workers with PAPRs. Bottom: TSMC employees around the world working together to support COVID-19 relief efforts. 
medical research on COVID-19 diagnosis, vaccine,  
and treatment by the Foundation for the National  
Institutes of Health (FNIH) and funded UC Berkeley's  
successful research in converting low-cost positive- 
pressure ventilators into expensive ventilators  
needed to treat critically ill COVID-19 patients. The  
research was able to cushion the impact of the  
global medical equipment shortage. 
We appreciate TSMC's generosity. Its efforts  
allowed the PreVENT team to design,  
manufacture, and deliver around 1,000  
ventilators to developing nations. This  
helped physicians save lives during the  
COVID-19 peak last summer. I believe this  
is an outstanding example of industry- 
academia collaboration. 
Tsu-Jae King Liu  
Dean and Roy W. Carlson Professor of Engineering  at the UC Berkeley College of Engineering 
Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication 
Sustainability Impact  
Sustainable Business  Practices  
ESG Implementation Framework  
ESG Management Platform 
Carrying Out the UN Sustainable Development Goals 
An Innovation Pioneer  
A Responsible Purchaser  
A Practitioner of Green Power  
An Admired Employer 
Power to Change Society 
ESG Implementation Framework 
TSMC's ESG Policy is the top guiding principle  
for our sustainable development. The TSMC ESG  
Matrix set by TSMC's Founder, Dr. Morris Chang,  
clearly defines TSMC's ESG scope. In response to  
the vision of "Uplifting Society", TSMC implements  
sustainability governance effectively in its core  
business of dedicated IC foundry services through  
the ESG Implementation Framework. TSMC actively  
develops positive relationships with all stakeholders,  
including employees, shareholders  investors,  
customers, suppliers  contractors, and society to  
create shared value and pursue a sustainable future. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Values Created Ethics Legal  Compliance Business  Standards Economic  Growth Balanced   Life Environmental  Protection Common   Good 
Stakeholders Employees Shareholders    Investors Customers Suppliers   Contractors Government Society 
Governance ESG Steering Committee ESG Committee 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Paths Green   Manufacturing Diverse   Inclusive  Workplace Responsible   Supply Chain Talent   Development Caring for the Disadvantaged 
Roles An Innovative  Pioneer A Responsible   Purchaser A Practitioner of   Green Power An Admired   Employer Power to Change  Society 
To Uplift Society    
Innovation  Research  Management 
Customer Relationship Management 
Acting with Integrity Strengthening Environmental Protection Caring for the Disadvantaged 
Supply Chain Management Environment Management 
Earning Stakeholders' Trust to Create   Shared Values 
Human Resource Management 
Stakeholder Engagement 
Chairman chairs the ESG Steering Committee and the ESG Committee chair acts as the executive secretary. Senior  
executives from various functions work alongside the two committee chairs to evaluate the Company's core operational  
capacity, establish mid-to-long term ESG goals, and align UN SDGs with the Company's core advantages for a  
development blueprint. 
ESG Management Platform 
In compliance with the vision and mission of the TSMC ESG Policy, TSMC is fulfilling its responsibility as a corporate  
citizen and has established the ESG Steering Committee  Note, the highest level ESG decision-making center. TSMC's  
Note: The CSR Executive Committee was renamed as the ESG Executive Committee in March 2021  the CSR Committee was renamed as the ESG Committee at  the same time. 
Chairperson Chairperson 
Executive Secretary 
ESG Steering Committee 
Senior executive appointed by Chairman Chairman 
ESG Committee Chairperson 
Corporate Planning Organization, Information Technology  and Materials Management   Risk Mgt, Business  Development, Legal, Human Resources, Technology  Development, Operations, Finance, TSMC Charity  Foundation, TSMC Education   Culture Foundation 
Chairman Liu and the management team will discuss  and formulate the Company's ESG vision and strategies,  collaborate with the ESG Committee for implementation,  strive towards a culture of sustainability, and become a  driver for positive change 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
ESG Committee 
Management representatives nominated by functional  organizations relating to the economy, environment,  society, and governance 
Quarterly Meetings  
     Identify pressing sustainability topics and formulate  action plans 
     Supervise interdepartmental communication and  coordinate resource integration 
     Track achievements across various sustainability  issues and formulate plans for further improvement 
The Committee chair shall report achievements and  work plans to the Board of Directors every quarter 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
TSMC cultivates semiconductor  talent and create an innovative  workplace. We encourage  colleagues to tackle the  challenges before them  and develop world-leading  semiconductor technologies  to help customers enable their   innovation and usher the world  into a better future. 
Senior Vice  President,  Research    Development 
Dr. Y.J. Mii 
Semiconductor is at the core of  modern technological innovation  and continues to drive the  advancement of our lives. We are  committed to building meaningful  partnerships with our customers  around the world, developing a  sustainable technology roadmap,  and together, we provide eco- friendly products that are more  powerful and more energy-efficient. 
Dr. Kevin Zhang 
Senior Vice  President,  Business  Development 
TSMC strives for sustainable  management and, in the spirit of  shared prosperity, we strike close  partnerships with customers and  suppliers to pursue excellence,  while maintaining the quality  of our responsible supply chain  through high levels of innovation. 
Vice President,  Quality and  Reliability 
Dr. Jun He 
Note: Executives arranged in the order of their responsible chapters within the Report. 
Customer trust is one of the  core values at TSMC. We build  long-term partnerships with our  customers, and through relentless  pursuit of technology innovation,  manufacturing excellence and  close collaboration, we deliver  innovative products that drive  positive change to society. 
Senior Vice  President,  Europe   Asia  Sales 
Suppliers are important  partners to TSMC on the road  to sustainable management.  We hope to build a responsible  supply chain through raising  ESG standards across the supply  chain and drive positive change  through the Supply Online 360,  an online management platform  for a global sustainable supply  chain, as well as the TSMC  Supplier Sustainability Academy. 
Senior Vice President,  Information Technology  and Materials  Management   Risk  Management 
The ESG Committee is an interdepartmental communication platform that serves to ensure ESG Steering Committee  
decisions are upheld. ESG Committee members are senior executives appointed to the Committee by Chairman Mark  
Liu and are tasked with the goal of aligning with international standards, gaining insight into international trends, and  
building a top-down operation model across the company. ESG Committee members will also spearhead annual  
SDG objectives and strategies across different committees, track performance, and balance stakeholder interests to  
ultimately ensure that ESG Strategies are fully integrated into the Company's daily operations.  
Shareholders  Investors 
Government 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Environment,  Health, and Safethy 
Customer   Service Operations 
Investor  Relations 
Public  Relations Human  Resources TSMC  Charity   Foundation 
Business  Development R D 
TSMC  Education  and Culture  Foundation 
ESG Steering  Committee 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Quality and  Reliability 
Technology and Materials  
Management   Risk Mgt 
Information   
Suppliers  Contractors 
We've continued to  make efforts towards  Green Manufacturing. By  developing innovative  approaches, we've been able  to use the most eco-friendly  approach to manufacturing  chips and create maximum  value with minimum  resources. 
Senior Vice  President,  Operations 
Talent is one of the most important  assets to the Company and a driving  force to move the industry and  society forward. We foster a diverse  and inclusive workplace and recruit  talent with shared values. In the  meantime, we also strengthen the  collaboration with universities to  nurture talent for the future of the  semiconductor industry.  
Vice President,  Human  Resources 
In response to the  COVID-19  pandemic, the TSMC Education  and Culture Foundation took the  initiative to donate hundreds of  infrared thermometers to Taiwan's  Ministry of Education to protect the  safety and health of students. In  addition, we've continued to invest  more resources in our effort to  close education gap and to create  a better environment for arts and  cultural activities. 
Chairman,  TSMC Education  and Culture  Foundation 
Dr. F.C. Tseng 
Getting ESG right is important  not just for TSMC. We want to  share what we have so that  love and caring will continue  to flourish and make Taiwan a  better place.   
Note: Executives arranged in the order of their responsible chapters within the Report. 
Sophie Chang 
Chairperson,  TSMC Charity  Foundation 
Grounded in excellent corporate  governance and the core value  of "integrity," TSMC ensures that  ethics, regulatory compliance,  and risk management measures  are incorporated into daily  business practices. 
Vice President,  Legal and  General Counsel 
Sylvia Fang 
In carrying out sustainable  management, TSMC lives out  its belief that corporate growth  and environmental sustainability  can go hand in hand. We aim to  establish long-term investment  value and deliver outstanding  return on investment through  strong financial performance,  stable dividend policies, and  comprehensive corporate  governance. 
Wendell Huang 
Vice President,  Finance and  Chief Financial  Officer 
    In response to climate change, TSMC has increased renewable energy  use, raised the recycling rate of Company resources, commenced  construction for a zero-waste manufacturing center, implemented  circular economy, and launched the "Plant a Tree" Program 
    For sustainable supply chain management, TSMC asked suppliers to sign  a Supplier Code of Conduct and is now building a global supply chain  management platform, "Supply Online 360" 
    Launched Emotional Security Program for employees to create a diverse,  inclusive workplace 
    Supported semiconductor talent development and STEM education 
    The TSMC Education and Culture Foundation and the TSMC Charity  Foundation continued to support our youth, promote fine arts education,  assist in remote education, and support the disadvantaged to bring  positive change to society      
    Continue developing renewable energy sources and waste recycling  technologies to expand the scope of circular economy and realize green  manufacturing 
    Build a high-quality and eco-friendly supply chain 
    Continue investing in the semiconductor and STEM talents 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
ESG Reporting  to the Board  of Directors  
2021 Work Plans 
Achievements Achievements Achievements 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
    Explored global ESG trends, evaluation standards, and corporate best  practices for the Company's own sustainability efforts 
    Formulated long-term ESG strategies and objectives for the Company   regularly updated human rights policies and reevaluated how it is carried  out 
    Ensured TSMC has a strong culture of ESG, launched the Company's first  CSR Award, and received 785 sustainability proposals from employees  and organizations 
    Approved and supervised Donation Programs against COVID-19, taking  advantage of the Company's expertise in technology, procurement, and  supply chain management to support disease prevention efforts across  the world 
    The CSR Executive Committee was renamed as the ESG Steering  Committee in March 2021  the CSR Committee was renamed as the ESG  Committee at the same time 
ESG Steering  Committee  
    Complied with the 9 UN SDGs selected by Chairman Liu and ESG Steering  Committee Members  tracked and managed progress and efforts  towards 2030 goals 
    Further expanded green manufacturing scope, joined RE100,  received additional AWS certifications, built the EP L module for the  Comprehensive Digital ESH Management System, advocated for EP L  among suppliers, built water reclamation facilities, and initiated plans for  a zero-waste manufacturing center 
    Launched Supply Online 360, launched supplier sustainability academy  and on-site contractor care programs, issued Supplier Sustainability  Standards, formulated the supplier risk management matrix, required  suppliers to propose and implement green manufacturing goals, and  continued to push the Company's supply chain towards sustainability 
    Issued Information Security Declaration to ensure better information  security and protection of proprietary information in order to maintain  the Company's competitive edge and protect partner interests 
    The TSMC Charity Foundation formulated a blueprint to support remote  education, assisted seniors living alone, advocated for filial piety, and  increased volunteer services from TSMC employees  the TSMC Education  and Culture Foundation advocated for fine arts, collaborated with  external organizations to support education equality in remote areas,  and gave our youth a stage for diverse development 
ESG  Committee   
Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication 
As we progress towards corporate sustainability, TSMC  
places great importance on the expectations and demands  
of internal and external stakeholders. As such, TSMC has  
established a framework for ESG disclosure in compliance  
with the latest AA 1000 Accountability Principle issued  
in 2018. The framework is established on the four major  
principles of Inclusivity, Materiality, Responsiveness, and  
Impact. Each year, TSMC regularly evaluates stakeholder  
feedback and ESG trends through diverse communication  
channels. We also continue to conduct materiality analysis  
to identify material ESG topics and establish long-term  
ESG targets, adopt action plans, and track ESG progress  
and efficacy accordingly. GRI Standards are also adopted  
by TSMC as the enduring standard for identifying material  
issues within TSMC. We have integrated ERM (enterprise  
risk management) to assess the trends and impact of risks  
posed by material ESG issues, explain to the public how  
TSMC is mitigating risks, and build a resilient organization  
capable of thriving under changing global landscapes. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Step Define Major  Stakeholders Identify Sustainability  Issues Assess Level of  Interest Analyze Impact on  Operations Map the Materiality  Matrix 
Phase I: Inclusivity 
In compliance with the AA 1000 SES (Stakeholder Engagement Standards,  
SES), TSMC regards the following six stakeholders as the major stakeholders for  
engagement: employees, shareholders investors, customers, suppliers vendors,  
and government   society (community, academic institutions, media, NGO  
NPO). By evaluating global sustainability trends and engaging with internal  
external stakeholders, TSMC identified 21 ESG issues relevant to TSMC in 2020. 
6 842 Surveys 21 Issues 150Colleagues 14Material Issues 
The six major stakeholders  
that TSMC should engage with  
are employees, shareholders  
investors, customers, suppliers  
vendors, government    
society (community, academic  
institutions, media, NGO NPO). 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Categories of  Stakeholders 
Identify sustainability issues relevant to  
TSMC through global sustainability standards  
(GRI Standards, ISO 26000, RBA, SDGs, SASB,  
TCFD, and UN Global Compacts), sustainable  
investing indices (CDP, DJSI, MSCI ESG Index,  
and SDGs Invest), Company development  
goals, and stakeholder communication. 
Phase II: Materiality 
In 2020, materiality analysis was conducted through surveys due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  
Each organization evaluated influential stakeholders that TSMC frequently engaged with,  
and issued ESG surveys to said stakeholders. We received 842 replies in 2020, and used the  
surveys to analyze their level of interest in ESG issues relevant to TSMC. The ESG Steering  
Committee, led by Chairman Mark Liu, and the ESG Committee Chairperson and Senior  
Vice President Lora Ho would spearhead efforts to analyze the impacts of each issue on  
operations (profitability, revenue, customer satisfaction, employee cohesion, risk) and  
review the sustainability roadmap for long-term development with a total of 150 colleagues  
that included TSMC's senior vice presidents, vice presidents, senior fab directors, and fab  
directors. 
Survey respondents  
included shareholders  
investors (25), employees  
(511), customers (32),  
suppliers vendors (136),  
government industry  
associations (7), and the  
public (131). 
A total of 150 colleagues  
including the Chairman,  
senior vice presidents,  
vice presidents, senior  
fab directors, and  
fab directors worked  
together to identify how  
ESG issues would impact  
TSMC operations. 
According to the results  
from step 3   4, we have  
mapped out the TSMC  
materiality matrix. The  
ESG Committee has  
discussed and agreed on  
the results, identifying 14  
material issues. 
(continued on next page) 
Step Decide Disclosure  Boundaries Review Disclosed  Content Formulate Long- term Goals Evaluate Impact 
(continued from previous page) 
Phase III: Responsiveness 
The ESG Committee was able to identify 14 ESG issues  as material based on materiality analysis in 2020. TSMC  assessed each issues' impact on the boundaries of TSMC's  value chain from supply chain and company operations  to  customers. Pursuant to GRI Standards, we have also  identified 23 material topics specific to TSMC in alignment  with the ESG issues and collected internal information, data,  and management approaches for disclosure in compliance  with reporting regulations. Corporate governance, risk  management, ethics, regulatory compliance, economic  performance, tax policies, and information security are  seven issues classified under General Disclosures by the GRI  Standards. While they will not be mapped in the materiality  matrix, relevant information will be disclosed annually. 
4 Stages 74 Long-term Goals 23 Topics 4 Meetings 
Procurement, wafer  
fabrication, packaging  
testing, and customer use  
are the four major stages of  
TSMC's value chain which  
determine sustainability  
disclosure boundaries to  
help identify the impact of  
such issues on our upstream  
and downstream stages. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
We have aligned the 14 material  
issues with the 23 specific  
topics in the GRI Standards to  
collect and disclose relevant  
information based on the  
reporting requirements and  
management approach  
dictated by GRI. 
Internal organizations  
formulated 74 long-term  
goals for material ESG issues  
to be achieved in 2030. 
Phase IV: Impact 
TSMC has established 2030 targets for each  
material ESG issue. The ESG Committee will  
regularly review progress towards annual targets  
and formulate changes to the following year  
accordingly. Plans, progress, and changes will be  
disclosed in the annual CSR Report for external  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
ESG Committee  
meetings are held  
every quarter where  
internal organizations  
will report on their  
progress, tracking, and  
management. 
TSMC Materiality Matrix 
Stakeholder Interest 
Note: Corporate governance, risk management, ethics, regulatory compliance, financial performance, tax policy, and information security topics are classified  under General Disclosures by GRI and are generally result-oriented. The above issues will, therefore, not be represented in the materiality matrix but  relevant information will be regularly disclosed in the Company's annual report, Company website, CSR Report, ESG website and ESG Newsletter 
An Innovation Pioneer 
An Admired Employer 
Social Participation 
Air Pollution Control 
A Responsible Purchaser 
Power to Change Society 
Waste  Management Climate Change 
Impact on TSMC Operations 
Talent development 
Water  Management 
A Practitioner of Green Power 
Human Rights 
Energy Management 
Occupational Safety  and Health 
Talent Attraction  and Retention 
Customer  Service 
Product  Quality 
Supplier  Sustainability  Management 
Innovation  Management 
Material Issues and Value Chain 
Note 1: "Upstream" boundaries are raw materials, equipment, and related services purchased by TSMC Note 2: "TSMC Operations" boundaries are wafer fabrication and packaging testing services offered by TSMC Note 3: "Customer Use" boundaries are customer products manufactured by TSMC 
An Innovation Pioneer 
Roles Material Issues GRI Standards Specific Topics Upstream Note 1 TSMC Operations  Note 2 Downstream Operational Impact 
A Responsible Purchaser Supplier Sustainability  Management Procurement Practices, Supplier Environmental  Assessment, Supplier Social Assessment  
A Practitioner of Green  Power 
An Admired Employer 
Power to Change Society Social Participation Economic Performance, Indirect Economic  Impacts, Local Communities 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Innovation Management Energy 
Product Quality Customer Safety and Health 
Customer Service Customer Privacy 
Energy Management Energy 
Climate Change Emissions, Economic Performance 
Water Management Water, Effluents and Waste 
Air Pollution Control Emissions 
Waste Management Effluents and Waste 
Talent Attraction and  Retention 
Talent Development  Training and Education 
Human Rights 
Occupational Safety and  Health Occupational Safety and Health 
Economic Performance, Labor Management  Relations, Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Market  Presence 
Labor Management Relations, Non-discrimination,  Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining,  Forced or Compulsory Labor, Human Rights  Assessment 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Procurement Stage Wafer  Fabrication Packaging  Testing Customer  Use Profitability Revenue Customer  Satisfaction Employee  Cohesion Risk 
Material Issues   Risk Management 
Risk Aspects 
Business   Operation Impact  and Our Approach 
Likelihood and Trend 
Operational 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Inability to foresee changes  in technologies or develop  innovative technologies 
Advanced processes involve  increasingly complex  technologies, higher  production costs, and more  complicated supply chains.  The Company's competitive  edge and market share could  suffer if we are unable to  identify technological changes  and develop new technologies 
Please refer to "Innovation  Management" in this report for  our approach 
Innovation Management 
TSMC shall protect R D results  with patents to ensure we  remain technological leaders  in the industry and to protect  the operational freedom of  TSMC and our clients across  the world. Inadequate patent  protection could impact TSMC's  technological competitiveness 
Please refer to "Innovation  Management" in this report  and  "6.3 Risk Management" in  the 2020 Annual Report" for our  approach 
Patent Protection - R D results  unprotected due to lack of  patent 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Challenges to product quality and yield 
Wafer quality control grows  increasingly difficult as products  become more complex. Inability to  detect defects could incur a loss to  our clients and impact Company  reputation 
If defects remain undetected in raw  materials, it could lead to scrapping  the final product, impacting  customer and Company operations 
Please refer to "Product Quality" in  this report for our approach 
Product Quality 
Concentrated sourcing and suppliers  noncompliant with TSMC or regulatory  risk aspects 
Disruptions in the supply chain (for  raw materials or equipment) will  impact Company operations and  our commitment to customers 
Please refer to "6.3 Risk  Management" in the 2020 Annual  Report and "Supplier Sustainability  Management" in this report for our  approach 
Supplier Sustainability  Management 
Operational impact from climate  change, increasing GHG emissions,  and regulations against GHG  emissions 
Increasing demands from investors,  customers, and environmental  groups to increase usage of  renewable energy could increase  costs and impact Company  reputation if demands are not met 
Please refer to "Climate Change and  Energy Management" in this report  for our approach 
Climate Change 
(continued on next page) 
Insignificant     
Almost Certain      
Catastrophic      
Unlikely     
Moderate     
Possible     
Risk Aspects 
Business   Operation Impact  and Our Approach 
Likelihood and Trend 
(continued from previous page) 
Operational 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Environmental impact from pollutant emissions 
Improper use or failure of air pollution  control equipment could result in excess  emissions, penalties from the authorities,  and impact on Company reputation 
Please refer to "Air Pollution Control" in this  report for our approach 
Air Pollution Control 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Unstable water supplies will limit production  capacity  TSMC will therefore be unable to  satisfy customer demand 
Anomalies in effluents will pollute the  environment and negatively impact  Company reputation 
Please refer to "Water Management" in this  report for our approach 
Water scarcity or disruption and  environmental impact from wastewater 
Water Management 
Unstable power supply will limit production  capacity and impact Company reputation 
Customer's trust could decline and result in  fewer orders 
Please refer to "Climate Change and Energy  Management" in this report for our approach 
Energy shortage or power outage 
Energy Management 
Company operations could suffer from an  inability to attract a sufficient number of  high-quality talents when needed 
Please refer to "Talent Attraction and  Retention" in this Report for our approach 
Inability to attract a sufficient number of  high-quality talents when needed 
Talent Attraction    Retention 
(continued on next page) 
Insignificant     
Catastrophic      
Unlikely     
Almost Certain      
Moderate     
Possible     
Risk Aspects 
Business   Operation Impact  and Our Approach 
Likelihood and Trend 
(continued from previous page) 
Operational 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
The Company's competitive edge and  growth momentum will suffer when  unable to develop talents to meet strategic  capabilities 
Please refer to "Talent Development" in this  report for our approach 
Inability to develop talents to meet  strategic capabilities 
Talent Development 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Company reputation, employee morale,  and talent recruitment could suffer from  the lack of proper protection for the human  rights of our employees 
Company reputation and customer's  interests could suffer from the lack of  proper protection for the human rights of  supplier's employees 
Please refer to "Human Rights"  and  "Supplier Sustainability Management" in  this report" for our approach 
Inability to protect the human rights of  TSMC employees and suppliers 
Human Rights 
Earthquakes and fires  could lead to damage  to Company equipment  or supplier equipment  and result in disrupted  operations and financial  losses 
Please refer to "6.3 Risk Management" in the 2020 Annual Report and "Occupational Safety and  Health" in this report for our approach 
Earthquakes or fires Occupational injuries,  occupational diseases, and  chemical hazards 
Occupational Safety   and Health 
Employees could suffer from  disabling injuries if they do  not follow proper safety  guidelines 
Emerging infectious diseases   (e.g., COVID-19) 
Cluster infections of  emerging infectious  diseases (e.g., COVID-19) inside the Company  could result in disrupted  operations 
Insignificant     
Catastrophic      
Unlikely     
Almost Certain      
Moderate     
Possible     
Stakeholder Communication 
    Intra-organizational  engagement and work  meetings daily 
    Communication meetings  at all levels quarterly 
    Labor-management  meetings quarterly 
    Fab Caring Circle,  Employee Opinion Box,  and Ombudsman System   as needed 
    Employee survey annually 
    Ethics training annually 
    Employee core values  survey biannually 
Engagement Issues Focus Areas Responses from TSMC 
Concerned with job duties and purpose, healthy and safe workplace, competitive compensation and  welfare, opportunities for learning and growth, and work-life balance Employees 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
    Talent Attraction and  Retention 
    Talent Development  
    Company's Long-term  Development in Current  Geopolitical Situation 
    Ethics and Regulatory  Compliance 
    Social Participation 
62  Labor-management meetings 4,343  Cases handled through internal communication channels 
    Strengthen industry-academia collaborations  around the world to discover and cultivate  more young talent    
    Expand interaction and cooperation across  organizations to broaden employee vision and  foster well-rounded talents 
    Host a variety of activities for employees to  help achieve a better work-life balance 
    Leverage big data or AI tools to upgrade office  automation to improve productivity and  reduce work hours 
    Provide the latest regulations for related  employees  
    Offer more opportunities for employees to  engage with society and help the disadvantaged 
    Company's long-term development under tense  geopolitical situations and the global pandemic 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
    Helped employees understand how TSMC can grow given the current global landscape  and competitive market through internal channels 
    Continued to improve the quality and quantity of semiconductor courses and expand  industry-academia collaboration to information engineering fields 
    Strengthened dual career ladder system for both management and technical expertise  to allow employees to develop to their full potential in the right places according to their  personal characteristics and skills 
    Strengthened employee training and offered more opportunities for internal transfers so  that our employees can grow with the Company  
    Continued to host various art, family, and sports events as well as clubs to facilitate a better  work-life balance among employees 
    Introduced the latest Industry 4.0 and Industrial AI technology to build a knowledge base  for engineering analysis and make knowledge smarter  
     Updated ethics and regulatory compliance training materials. Employee training  completion rate was 99.72% with 50,482 employees having received training  management  training completion rate was 100% with 5,425 managers having received trainings.  
    Continued to invest in society through the TSMC Education and Culture Foundation and  the TSMC Charity Foundation  continued to encourage employees to volunteer 
It's been years since I worked at  TSMC,  and I'm very happy that I was  dispatched by my school to TSMC for  the industry-academia partnership.   I am working with TSMC and  outstanding professors to advance  exploratory research, narrow the  gap between the industry and  schools, and cultivate outstanding  semiconductor professionals  through the semiconductor courses. 
Marvin M.F. Chang 
Director of Corporate Research, TSMC 
TSMC CSR AWARD Primary Screening Poster  Carnival 
    General shareholders'  meeting annually 
    Investor conferences   quarterly 
    Domestic and overseas broker  conferences as needed 
    Face-to-face meetings,  video conference calls and  telephone conference calls   as needed 
    Annual report, CSR report,  and annual report on Form  20-F with the US Securities  and Exchange Commission   annually 
Concerned with sustainable value creation, and focused on business development strategies,  stable profitability, good shareholder returns, and ESG performance Shareholders    Investors 
Engagement Issues Focus Areas Responses from TSMC 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
    Financial Performance 
    Innovation Management 
    Risk Management 
    Climate Change 
302  Institutional investors 262  Conferences and meetings 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
    Impact from global politics and economy  on the Company's operations and TSMC's  response     Changes in the nature of competition 
    Future growth potential and profitability    
    Dividend policy    
    Measures in response to climate change and  energy policy 
    In 2020, through quarterly investor conferences and 262 investor  meetings, TSMC communicated with its investors about market  trends, growth strategies, and profitability, and expressed its  opinions on changes in the business environment 
    With the support of strong operating performance and future  growth potential, TSMC has been providing positive return to  investors for 12 consecutive years 
    TSMC distributed cash dividends on a quarterly basis.  Shareholders of TSMC common shares received a total of NT 10  cash dividend per share in 2020 
    Disclosed ESG information and data according to semiconductor  industry indicators issued by SASB (Sustainability Accounting  Standards Board). Held Climate Risk   Opportunities Workshops  to identify climate risks and opportunities according to the TCFD  framework (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures)  a  total of 5 climate risks (inc. zero emission trends) and 1 opportunity  (improve company reputation) were added in 2020 
TSMC's unrelenting pursuit of  technology leadership, commitment  to long-term shareholder returns  and professional investor  communication reflect its impressive  values, business philosophy and  culture. We look forward to seeing  the Company's unique business  model empower many wonderful  technological innovations in the  decades ahead, while creating  win-win partnerships with its  stakeholders. 
Stefan Magnusson   Stanley Lu 
Orbis Investments 
TSMC 2020 general shareholders' meeting 
    Business and  technology  assessment quarterly 
    Customer satisfaction  survey annually 
    Customer meetings   as needed 
Engagement Issues Focus Areas Responses from TSMC 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
    Innovation Management 
    Product Quality 
    Customer Service 
    Information Security 
115  Quarterly assessment meetings 1,205  Customer meetings  
Concerned with TSMC's technology development and production planning, including product  quality that fulfills customer demands, careful protection of customer information, supporting  customers in successful production application, and gaining time-to-market advantage  
    Technology development  schedules and plans 
    Capacity planning and  production information      
    Product quality          
    Information protection 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
    In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, TSMC offered remote  auditing services to support customer's product launching on  schedule and win customer trust 
    By using a dynamic hotspot failure identification approach at the  system level, we were able to increase the success rate of failure  analysis, accelerate the development of new processes, and  speed up the trouble-shooting stage during customer designs.  This helped to reduce process flaws and make products more  reliable 
    TSMC created information protection protocols, built automated  information security management system, and obtained ISO 27001  certification to be compliant with international security standards. Fab  12B 14A 15B have received ISO 15408 certifications, guaranteeing  the highest level of safe production and information protection for our  customers. All fabs with ISO 15408 certifications are ready to receive  high security level orders and ensure optimal safety management in  the production process and along the supply chain 
    TSMC was able to offer 833 process technologies and 77  packaging technologies in line with its technological roadmap 
    New TSMC-Online TM technical file navigation system assisted  customer to access up-to-date information easily 
Customers appreciate TSMC's support, which enables new products to be quickly  completed from design to mass production. 
With TSMC's expertise in advanced  wafer fabrication technology and  support in quality and reliability  assurance, MediaTek is able to  offer leading innovative designs  that fulfill the strict requirements  for high-end chipset solutions,  recognized by tier-one clients  around the world.    
Corporate Vice President, MediaTek 
TSMC's customer service teams  
have a clear understanding of our  
manufacturing needs and fights  
hard to support our interests. They  
always provide prompt responses  
and are very professional in handling  
issues. It is a pleasure to work  
with them. We hold them as the  
benchmark for service excellence.  
Please keep up good work and  
momentum on the support.  
Dilip Vijay 
VP and GM of APD CSG DCSG, Broadcom 
    Supplier Management  Forum, Responsible Supply  Chain Forum   Supply  Chain ESH Training Forum   annually 
    Supply Online 360 Global  Responsible Supply Chain  Platform as needed 
    On-site support   audit as  needed 
    Supplier meetings as  needed 
    Supplier Information  Security Association  meeting monthly 
Engagement Issues Responses from TSMC 
Suppliers  Contractors 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
    Sustainable Supply  Chain Management 
    Ethics and Regulatory  Compliance 
    Product Quality 
    Workplace Safety and  Health 
    Information Security 
395  Suppliers participated in the Responsible  Supply Chain Forum 
Concerned with the development of new process technologies, improving product quality, ESH  regulations, ethics and regulatory compliance, and information security  desire to strengthen and  deepen partnerships for sustainable supply chain management 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
    Carry out sustainable  actions and continue to  improve  
    TSMC's ethics and  regulatory compliance and  supplier code of conduct 
    Raw material quality      
    Establish effective ESH  management mechanisms  
    Information security  compliance, assessment  results, and sharing  experiences 
Focus Areas 
72  Supplier audit   communication meetings  
    Built Supply Online 360, a global supply chain management  platform  established online TSMC Supplier Sustainability  Academy with five lessons on Supplier Code of Conduct  now available online 
    All tier 1 suppliers signed the Supplier Code of Conduct and  complied with business ethics (completion rate: 100%).  
    24 critical suppliers completed third-party supplier audits  on sustainability risk by RBA-certified institutions  12  suppliers received consultation on process advancement  and quality improvement. 
    Hosted Responsible Supply Chain Forum and related  training courses for suppliers to share experience  required  suppliers to apply learnings to factory operations 
    Held nine Supplier Information Security Association  meetings, completed supplier information security  assessments for nine suppliers, and carried out five supplier  information security programs to raise awareness for  information security across the supply chain 
We should shoulder the  responsibility for environmental  protection and strive to develop  innovative green technologies by  advancing processes, reducing  industrial waste, and preventing  pollution. We look forward  to working with TSMC in the  future and fulfilling our social  responsibilities. 
Alvin Hsieh 
Sr. Regional Director of Entegris Asia  LLC, Taiwan Branch 
President Chen Chou-Sin accepting a TSMC Outstanding Supplier Award on behalf of Chang Chun  Petrochemical Co., Ltd. from J.K. Lin, Senior Vice President of Information Technology and Materials  Management   Risk Management of TSMC. 
Sustainability should be the  cornerstone of corporate growth.  We are happy to be partnering  with TSMC towards sustainable  operations and a positive cycle.          
Chou-Sin Chen 
President of Chang Chun Petrochemical  Co., Ltd., a Subsidiary Company of  Chang Chun Group 
    Official correspondences and  visits as needed 
    Interviews to provide industry  experience and advice as  needed 
    Conferences (e.g., briefings,  public hearings, symposia,  seminars, meetups) as  needed 
    Communication platforms  of the industry associations   monthly 
Government   Industry  Associations 
Engagement Issues Focus Areas Responses from TSMC 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
    GHG Reduction  Energy  Management 
    Water Management 
    Environmental Regulations 
    Occupational Safety and  Health 
    Innovation Management 
50 Government meetings attended 48 Industry association conferences and meetings 
Concerned with the development of advanced process technologies, ESG actions, overseas  investments, and environmental regulations (GHG, toxic substances, air pollution water pollution,  etc.) revision trends  sharing of Occupational Safety and Health management experience and  discussions on regulations  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
    Build factories that use diverse  energy sources and increase use of  renewable energies 
    Build factories that use diverse  water sources and increase use of  reclaimed water  
    Comply with environmental  regulations  
    Improve ESH management across  the supply chain  
    Application for U.S. investments  
    Development trends in advanced  semiconductor process technologies 
  Established 100% renewable energy target for TSMC by 2050 and joined the  RE100  
  Commenced construction of the TSMC Water Reclamation Plant in Southern  Taiwan Science Park and made plans to introduce domestic reclaimed water as  a water source  the reclaimed water plant is slated to be in commission in 2021 
  Represented the Taiwan Semiconductor Industry Association in discussions with  the EPA on reasonable and viable air pollutant emission standards for the  semiconductor industry 
  Held seven ESH Experience-sharing Workshops and asked suppliers to set long- term sustainability goals for energy conservation, carbon reduction, fire  prevention, occupational safety and health, and emergency response 
  In December 2020, TSMC incorporated the TSMC Arizona Corporation and has  made plans to build a 12-inch wafer fab in Phoenix, Arizona  the fab will employ  5nm processes and is slated to be in commission in 2024 to fulfill strong North  
  Visited the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, upon invitation, to share  development trends in semiconductor technologies and TSMC's technologies 
American market demands for advanced technology 
TSMC is the first semiconductor  company in the world to join RE100,  showing exemplary foresight,  pioneering 100% renewable energy  practices, and spearheading change  among other corporations. 
Helen Clarkson 
CEO of The Climate Group 
A fire equipment training course at TSMC's  own fire training grounds. The grounds are  equipped with a variety of equipment to ensure  suppliers can learn how to operate them. 
    Volunteer services at  least once per week 
    TSMC LinkedIn as  needed 
    Foundation websites as  needed 
    "Sending Love" charity  platform as needed 
    Project cooperation and  visits as needed 
    TSMC ESG Newsletter   monthly 
Engagement Issues Responses from TSMC 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
    Social Participation     Seeking additional  partners for educating the  disadvantaged and offering  diverse education to young  students 
225  Cooperating charity groups 646,975  Cumulative number of beneficiaries 
Concerned with the resources for education and arts offered by the TSMC Education and Culture  Foundation to cultivate well-rounded talents in the new era  concerned with the emergency relief  aid, volunteer service, and various charity programs provided by the TSMC Charity Foundation  
    Continue to support the arts  and expand sponsorships for  outstanding local art troupes    
    Measures taken in response  to social issues and major  events, and impact of those  measures 
    Progress in environmental  protection projects     
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Focus Areas 
    In 2020, the TSMC Education and Culture Foundation  invested NT  99.85 million to support diverse education  programs with our three cornerstones: Cultivate Young  Generation, Educational Collaboration, Promote Arts and  Culture. To strengthen ESG and the influence of women, the  Foundation hosted the TSMC Youth Dream Building Project  to give young Taiwanese people the opportunity to realize a  sustainable future through creativity, and also organized five  "TSMC Journeys of Female Scientist Lectures" to cultivate  outstanding talents for Taiwan. 
    In 2020, the TSMC Charity Foundation devoted funds,  material resources, and volunteers to target four charity  projects: Caring for Elders Living Alone, Promoting Filial  Piety, Taking Care of the Disadvantaged, and Environmental  Protection. The Foundation focused on putting  resources into Education in Remote Areas and Aid for the  Disadvantaged, with 10,451 volunteers serving nearly 64,000  hours. Donations exceeded NT 160 million. 
Student of Dept. of Industrial Design,  National United University, Wining  teams member from the 3 rd   the 4 th  TSMC Youth Dream Building Project  competition 
I would like to thank the TSMC  Education and Culture Foundation  for showing young students what it  takes to realize your dream through  the TSMC Youth Dream Building  Project. It's challenging,  but it gave  us a better idea of where we stand. 
Yu Chun Lin 
The Intelligent Engineering Center conducting experimental science education with students in  Meihua Elementary School in Hsinchu County. 
During this pandemic, TSMC has  been incredibly supportive. I'd like to  thank the TSMC Charity Foundation  for offering personal protective gear  and health supplements but also for  appreciating the efforts of medical  laboratory scientists. 
Te-Lung Tsai 
President of the Taiwan Association of  Medical Technologists 
Sustainability Impact 
TSMC provides advanced processes and technology platforms to help customers realize innovations, drive the success and  
application of their products, and create value for society and stakeholders. This is a manifestation of the "Better, Together"  
spirit and a critical reason why TSMC can continue to grow and exert influence. TSMC believes in integrity leadership and has  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Finance Generate economic value and returns  through the effective management of  financial resources 
Manufacturing Provide services that customers need  by carefully maintaining manufacturing  resources such as equipment and buildings 
Intelligence Strengthen our knowledge capital through  continued investment into innovative R D  and patents 
Human Resources Recruit like-minded talents and strengthen  talent cultivation so employees may grow  with the Company 
Environment Reduce consumption of natural resources  and maintain optimal usage efficiency by  managing sources 
Society Give back to society and obtain its trust  through social participation 
Six Major Capitals Process and Methods 
Senior Management  Support 
Chairman Liu is personally  involved in ESG efforts and has  invited senior executives to  lead functional organizations in  proposing sustainable solutions  based on core competencies  in order to expand positive  influence 
Mid-level   Management  Involvement 
Mid-level management is  the driving force behind  the Company's pursuit for  sustainability, conducting  inter-organizational and  interdepartmental cooperation  in the face of complex  sustainability issues to bring  about real change 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Four Core  Elements 
ESG Management 
The ESG Steering Committee  and ESG Committee meet  regularly to formulate long- term strategies, engage  in interdepartmental  communication and  cooperation, supervise program  progress and performance,  and establish a driver for  sustainability within the  organization 
Foster an organizational culture  that doesn't commit casually,   but when it does, devotes fully  to the commitment. Set long- term goals for sustainability  issues, strive for change, review  progress regularly, and continue  to commit to doing better 
Organization   Culture 
created a sustainability impact management framework based on the Company's strong governance foundation, six major  
capitals, four core elements, six sustainable management competencies, and Environmental Profit and Loss (EP L) valuation  
model to evaluate and manage the entire value chain's contribution to society.  
Innovative R D  Management 
     Innovation  Management 
     Product Quality 
Human Resource  Management 
    Talent Attraction and  Retention     Talent Development 
    Human Rights 
    Occupational Health    Safety 
Customer  Relationship  Management 
    Customer Service 
Operational Impact:    Employee Cohesion       Risk       Revenue       Profit       Customer Satisfaction 
Value Chain    Procurement      TSMC Operations      Customer Use 
Six  Sustainable  Management  Competencies 
Integrity  Leadership  
Supply Chain  Management 
    Supplier  Sustainability  
Environmental  Management 
Stakeholder  Management 
     Energy Management 
     Climate Change 
     Water Management 
     Waste Management 
     Air Pollution Control 
     Social Participation 
Management 
(continued on the next page) 
(continued from the previous page) 
Unit: Million (NT )   2018                2019               2020 
Environment 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Cash Dividend 
Net Income 
Operating Revenue 
Depreciation   Amortization 
Supply Chain Output Value Driven by   TSMC   Note 1 
Greenhouse Gases  Note 2 3 
Air Pollution  Note 2 
Waste  Note 2 
Effluents  Note 2 
Water Consumption  Note 2 
Environmental Impact of the Supply   Chain   Note 2 4 
Occupational Injury  Note 5 
Employee Compensation 
Supply Chain Employee Compensation  Note 6 
Corporate Volunteers  Note 7 
-12,430 -13,183 -15,209 
-253 -210 -209 
-93 -86 -124 
-102 -123 -166 
-7,696 -9,454 -11,503 
117 88.0 80.3 
51,728  58,740  58,893 
108,215   109,985     140,817 91,633         159,172        157,619 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
207,443   259,304   259,304 
292,546 286,884    331,725 
351,184 345,344                 518,158 
Sustainable Value 
        806,100 726,800                                   1,080,200 
1,031,474   1,069,985                            1,339,255 
Communities 
Government  
Employees  
    Create job  opportunities and  employee benefits 
    Stable returns    dividend for investors 
    Assist customers with  product application    success 
    Generate output  value and encourage  transformation in the  semiconductor supply  chain 
    Protect our natural  capital through  EP L 
    Generate taxes and  social benefits for  the government 
In 2020, TSMC completed an economic,  
environmental, and social impact evaluation  
and introduced results for Supply Chain  
Employee Compensation and Corporate  
Volunteers. We also completed the  
sustainability impact valuations based  
on a triple bottom line (TBL). For more  
information, please refer to sustainability  
impact valuations in this report. 
Note 1: "Supply Chain Output Value Driven by TSMC"  in 2020 was calculated with assistance from the  Industrial Economics   Knowledge Center using the  Input-Output Table in 2016 issued by the Directorate  General of Budget, Accounting and Statistics (DGBAS)  with corrections using the RAS method. Data from  2018-2019 has also been adjusted. 
Note 2: Environmental Profit and Loss (EP L) presented  in this section is the monetary assessment of  possible external impacts from TSMC's purchase and  production. For the costs and economic benefits  arising from the implementation of environmental  protection projects, please refer to "Environmental  Cost" in TSMC's 2020 annual report. For the EP L  methodology, please refer to the TSMC 2020  Environmental Profit and Loss (EP L) Report.  
Note 3: GHG emissions data and subsequent EP L from  2018-2019 are updated here.  
Note 4: Environmental Impact of the Supply Chain includes  only suppliers who had more than 3 transactions  with TSMC in 2020 and with amounts exceeding  NT 10 million. A total of 1,041 suppliers meet  the criteria. Their environmental impact is then  calculated through the Environmentally Extended  Input Output  (EEIO) analysis. The selection criteria  for suppliers was amended in 2020 to include  factory and equipment suppliers. Data from 2018- 2019 are also adjusted. 
Note 5: Value of Occupational Injury   Cost of Occupational  Injury   Medical Expenses   Amount Individuals is  Willing to Pay to Avoid Occupational Disasters 
Note 6: Supply Chain Employee Compensation    Procurement amount is input into the EXIOBASE  2 database and calculated using relevant  compensation coefficients based on the supplier's  industry and location 
Note 7: Corporate Volunteer Value   Volunteer Service  Hours   Average TSMC Employee Income  
Sustainability Impact  Valuation Case Study 
TSMC has constructed a Sustainability Impact  
Strategy Map derived from causal relationships. The  
map is constructed through the integration of P L  
and sustainable management and it evaluates the  
TSMC value chain's social impact from an outside-in  
perspective. Since 2018, TSMC has been collaborating  
with the Corporate Sustainability Impact Center of  
Tunghai University to introduce an EP L valuation model  
that is capable of converting all environmental footprints  
produced throughout production   operations into  
monetary social costs into our Total ESH Management  
system (TSM). 
In 2020, in terms of TSMC operations, TSMC generated NT   
1.339 trillion in operating revenue, made a provision of  
NT 331.7 billion for depreciation and amortization, and  
issued NT 259.3 billion in cash dividend. TSMC not only  
helped customers succeed and suppliers become more  
sustainable, but also offered good returns to its investors.  
In terms of social value, we paid NT 199.7 billion in  
taxes and payroll, supporting our government to expand  
infrastructure and social welfare, and to create more job  
opportunities  volunteer services from TSMC created  
NT 80.32 million in social benefit while occupational  
injuries resulted in NT 12.9 million in social costs.  
Environmental footprints and resource consumption from  
the production process resulted in an environmental cost  
of NT 15.7 billion. In terms of the upstream supply chain,  
TSMC generated NT  1.802 trillion output value in the  
supply chain, created 190 thousand job opportunities and  
NT 157.6 billion in payroll, and resulted in NT 11.5 billion  
in environmental costs.  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Operations Management with EP L at TSMC 
TSMC introduced EP L into production   operations management in 2018 and further  
applied EP L analysis to the upstream supply chain in 2019. We conducted hot spot  
analysis through Environmentally Extended Input Output (EEIO) and started surveying  
each key supplier using a life cycle approach. As of 2020, we have surveyed and analyzed  
over 40 suppliers. 
In 2020, our investigation showed that TSMC had experienced minor increases in  
environmental externalities from production and operations over the past three  
years. The main cause for the rise is an increasing demand for energy, water, and raw  
materials due to new factories and evolving advanced processes. To reduce social  
costs from energy consumption, TSMC achieved decreases in externalities from air  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Measure    Value Impact 
Impact  Pathway Results 
Application    Planning Valuation 
Scope    Boundary Input  Output 
TSMC Sustainability  Impact Valuation  Model 
Operating  Revenue 
Cash  Dividend 
Economic Value 
Net Income  
Depreciation  Amortization 
Increased Output  Value 
Industry Supply  Demand Driven by TSMC 
Procurement 
pollution and waste through low carbon manufacturing, improving energy efficiency,  
and increasing use of renewable energies  in 2020, the environmental externalities per  
unit product had reduced by 7% from the previous year. In terms of the supply chain,  
environmental externalities derived from TSMC procurement are largely concentrated  
in PM2.5 and GHG emissions from the production of chemical materials and chemical  
products. TSMC will continue to strive towards a responsible supply chain and ask that  
our suppliers commit to pollution control and reduced energy resource consumption.  
We intend to conduct an environmental survey on suppliers in 2021, to further uncover  
ways to reduce our environmental footprint, increase social welfare, make our supply  
chain more sustainable, and create more synergy for the value chain. For more details,  
please refer to the TSMC 2020 Environmental Profit and Loss (EP L) Report.  
Greenhouse  Gases 
Global  Warming 
Social Cost of   Carbon 
Water  Consumption 
Environmental Value Social Value 
Air Pollution 
Particulate  Matter 
Human Health  Damage 
Photochemical  Ozone 
Toxic  Substances 
Working-hour  Loss 
Occupational  Injury 
Individual Employer  Social Cost 
Employee  Compensation 
Time Value 
Volunteer  Services 
Sustainability Impact Strategy Map 
From purchasing and TSMC operations to customer use, TSMC has outlined a strategy map for the value chain derived from the causal relationship between these interconnected lines to comprehensively evaluate our actions. Monetary value  
serves as a sustainable management tool to measure the potential external costs (-) and values ( ) generated by TSMC on the economy, environment, and society.  
Note 1: The "Strategy Map" is derived from the Balanced Scorecard, a performance management tool researched and  developed by Robert S. Kaplan and David P. Norton in the late 1990s. The Balanced Scorecard connects goals with  driving factors to serve as a tool for management 
 1,080.2Billion 
Economic Value  1,280.4Billion 
TSMC is taking advantage of its position as a leading global  
semiconductor foundry to improve the technology and capability  
of local suppliers, as well as drive development and output value  
for the semiconductor value chain. To address supply chain  
sustainability issues, we actively work towards a responsible  
supply chain to reduce environmental and social impact. 
Industry  Output Value  Driven by   TSMC 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Upstream Procurement Customer Use TSMC Operations 
Supplier  Services 
Energy Consumption 
Environmental Value - 15.7Billion 
Energy Efficient Products - 11.5Billion 
Environmental Externalities 
Procurement Demand 
Industry  Supply    Demand 
Compensation Pollutant Emissions 
Occupational  Injury 
 157.6Billion 
Social Value  199.8Billion 
Job  Opportunities 
Social Externalities 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Depreciation  Amortization 
Operating Revenue 
TSMC is innovation-oriented and aims to mitigate social costs and impact from energy  
consumption with the use of renewable energies, reclaimed water, and the circular economy. We  
hope to foster a humanistic culture and offer equal opportunities, a healthy and safe workplace,  
and competitive compensation and benefits. We also encourage employees to engage in social  
participation and work with the Company to create positive change for society. 
Economic Value 
Cash Dividend 
Product Sales 
Net Income  
Energy   Efficient  Processes 
Source Reduction 
Note 2: The "TSMC Sustainability Impact Strategy Map" employs concepts of performance management to connect predicted results in value chain activities with causality among driving  factors. We then apply the concept of P L to identify positive or negative impacts on the economy, environment, and society. Such positive or negative impacts include direct or  indirect economic value as well as the external costs or benefits brought onto the natural environment or society. 
Environmental Value 
Raw Materials Input 
Energy Consumption 
Environmental Externalities 
Production  Operations 
Customer  Design Recruit Talent 
Pollutant Emissions 
Terminal Control 
Occupational  Injury 
Social Value 
Job  Opportunities 
Social Externalities 
R D   Patent 
Compensation 
Corporate  Volunteer 
TSMC is using a new generation of process technologies  
to help customers realize innovation and improve energy  
efficiency. We aim to use technology to better human health,  
safety, and convenience while at the same time working to  
build a low-carbon society. 
57.8Billion kWh 
  Positive Impact             Negative Impact             Causal Relationship 
Low Energy  Use 
Energy   Efficient  Products 
Optimal  Surface Area 
Advanced  Processes 
Innovative Products 
IC Innovation 
High  Performance 
Innovative  Products 
Carrying Out the UN Sustainable Development Goals 
TSMC operations, and customer use. With guidance from the ESG Steering Committee, TSMC has set five ESG goals  
and selected nine primary SDGs. With the ESG Committee, we were able to integrate inter-organizational resources and  
Humanity now faces grave challenges. In the face of such challenges, TSMC is focusing on improving core business  
competencies through our ten business philosophies and four core values. We are striving to fulfill our five sustainability roles  
and drive SDGs throughout the semiconductor industry by influencing the three major stages of upstream procurement,  
Green Manufacturing Realize clean production, lead the  industry in developing highly efficient  semiconductor technologies, employ  green innovation in response to climate  change, and facilitate global sustainable  development 
Build a Responsible Supply Chain Through procurements, extend TSMC's  operational and manufacturing  standards to related industries in the  supply chain and drive growth in the  supply chain 
Create a Diverse   Inclusive  Workplace Recruit partners with shared visions and  values, value labor rights, and ensure  employees enjoy a workplace that offers  learning, development, safety, and  health 
Talent Development  Collaborate with schools to develop  TSMC programs and STEM education  to cultivate future talents for the  semiconductor industry 
Care for the Disadvantaged Integrate Company resources and  voluntary employee volunteer services.  Build a society of common good and  deliver the power of love and societal  influence through education and daily life 
ESG Directions Process 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Understand and  Prioritize SDGs 9 SDGs 
TSMC identifies the link between SDGs, the five sustainability roles, and value chain  stages through the following three steps: Understand   Prioritize SDGs, Goals    Integration, and Disclosure and Communication. Long-term goals and action plans  are then formulated accordingly.  
Disclosure and  Communication 24 Sustainable Approaches 
Upstream  Procurement TSMC  Operations Customer Use 
TSMC purchases  raw materials,  equipment, and  related services 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
TSMC offers  wafer fabrication  and packaging  testing services 
TSMC provides  fully-produced  customer  products 
Goals   Integration 44 Long-term Goals 
capabilities to formulate 44 timely and quantifiable long-term goals and implement 24 corresponding actions toward  
sustainability. We are integrating SDGs into our organizational culture and daily operations, and with Goal 17 of the SDGs    
and engagement to uncover opportunities for growth in the governance economic, environmental, and social dimensions.  
We hope that we can join together in a sustainable future with shared values. 
global partnerships   at the core, we are collaborating with internal external stakeholders through participation, cooperation,  
An Innovation Pioneer 
Innovation is the foundation for growth and the driver for breakthroughs at TSMC. As the  leader of the dedicated IC foundry industry, we embrace innovation from each and every TSMC  employee. We use the world's leading technologies to produce high-quality, energy-efficient,  and sustainable products and thereby assist in solving the various challenges humanity faces. 
A Responsible Purchaser  
As a world-leading IC foundry, TSMC views responsible procurement as our mission. We  hope to exert our influence and create a green semiconductor supply chain by encouraging  upstream downstream suppliers to make progress in technology, quality, delivery,  environmental protection, human rights, occupational safety and health, etc.  
A Practitioner of Green Power  
Green manufacturing is the cornerstone of sustainable management at TSMC. We believe that  there can be mutual prosperity between business growth and the environment. Therefore, we  have deeply entrenched green management into daily operations. By introducing innovative  green technologies, we continue to address climate change, energy management, water  management, waste management, and air pollution control as we stay committed to becoming  the global benchmark for eco-friendly companies. 
An Admired Employer  
Employees are TSMC's most important asset. We value mutual commitments with our employees.  We dedicate ourselves to creating a challenging and enjoyable work environment full of  opportunities to acquire new skills, establishing an open-style management system, providing  compensation and benefits packages that are above the industry average for employees, and  becoming a world-class company that our employees are proud of. 
Power to Change Society  
TSMC is based in Taiwan and has been able to thrive because of support from across society.  We believe in giving back to the society that has given us so much, and we do so through the  TSMC Education and Culture Foundation and TSMC Charity Foundation. To give back and  create common good, the Foundations are dedicated to caring for the disadvantaged, youth  education, and culture and arts. 
TSMC Sustainability Roles 
Linking SDGs and TSMC's Sustainable Development Goals for 2030 
Offer Better Medical Care to Seniors Living Alone Provide 12,000 service visits to seniors living alone  through Network of Love 
Reduce Water Risks Reduce unit water consumption (liter 12-inch equivalent  wafer mask layers) by 30% (Base year: 2010) 
Raise Effluent Standards 
Increase Usage of Reclaimed Water Increase the replacement rate of reclaimed water by more  than 30% 
Help suppliers implement water conservation measures  and reach 3.5 million metric tons in cumulative amount of  
water conserved (Base year: 2020) NEW 
Water pollution composite indicator 50% above effluent  standards 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Good Health and Well-being 
Clean Water and Sanitation 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Promote Filial Piety Among Our Youth Promote filial piety education in 120 educational institutions 
Care for the Educationally Disadvantaged Continuous collaboration with public and private educational  organizations and provide no less than NT 15 million in  resources annually 
Volunteer Readers for Children in Remote Areas Provide more than 10,000 hours of reading services each year 
Produce with Greater Energy Efficiency Double energy efficiency after five years of mass production for  each process technology 
Work with Suppliers Toward Energy Conservation Help suppliers implement energy conservation measures and  reduce energy consumption by a cumulative total of 1,500 GWh  (Base year: 2018) 
Use Renewable Energy Renewable energy to account for 20% of energy consumption  in new fabs after adopting 3nm processes. Continue increasing  renewable energy purchases annually until 25% of fabs' power  consumption is supplied from renewable energy and non-fab  power consumption is 100% from renewable energy 
Save 5,000 GWh cumulatively between 2016 and 2030 through  new energy-saving measures 
Quality Education 
Affordable and Clean Energy 
TSMC Supports Local  Baseball Teams 
Since TSMC's 2020 Sports Day was canceled due to the pandemic, TSMC decided to allocate  
NT 20 million from the Sports Day budget to kick off the "TSMC Little Baseball Hero Support  
Program," which is TSMC's first crossover collaboration with the Taiwan Aboriginal Baseball  
Development Association (TABDA) and the Taiwan Basegarden Baseball Development Association  
(TBBDA). The program aims to support young baseball players establish an education foundation,  
build up self-confidence, and unleash their potential. 
The TSMC Little Baseball Hero Support Program supports TABDA to offer training to baseball  
coaches on sports nutrition, injury prevention, sports science, and applications. Through the  
development of players' second skills, the program provides junior high school baseball team  
members in Hualien and Taitung with career planning and vocational training. At the same time,  
the program supports TBBDA in expanding its current service area by establishing "Baseball  
Reading Classrooms" for baseball teams in junior high schools and elementary schools in areas  
where the TSMC fabs are located. In addition, a "Baseball Scholarship" will be presented by CPBL  
stars to encourage young baseball players to read and establish an educational foundation,  
paving the way for their career development. 
TSMC Vice President T.S. Chang, a baseball enthusiast, leads members of TSMC's Fab 12B Softball  
Team and TSMC's Softball Club to visit schools in Hsinchu. They share their knowledge of baseball  
and the professional league with kids and help them with schoolwork and life coaching in the  
pursuit of their dreams. 
For more details, please refer to TSMC's ESG website: TSMC Sports Day Funds Allocated to First Crossover   Program to Support Local Baseball Teams 
Trending towards positive impact over past three years 
Trending towards negative impact over past three years 
Shown signs of instability over the past three years or  new adjusted targets without previous data 
Offer Competitive Compensation Maintain position above 75 th percentile among  industry peers in total compensation 
Facilitate Sustainability Across the Supply Chain Tier 1 suppliers required to complete Sustainability  Management Self-assessment Questionnaire   completion rate 100% 
Promote Workplace Safety Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate (FR)   0.3 
Support Local Suppliers Ensure a cumulative total of 145 local raw materials  suppliers receive support on process enhancement and  quality improvement (Base year: 2016) 
Tier 1 suppliers required to sign TSMC Supplier Code  of Conduct every three years  completion rate: 100% 
Suppliers required to receive third-party (RBA- certified agencies) audits every three years:  completion rate 100% 
Conduct due diligence for responsible mineral supply  chains on three suppliers each year  30 cumulative  
suppliers surveyed  NEW 
Disabling Severity Rate (SR)   3 
Incident Rate per 1,000 Employees  0.20 
All waste treatment vendors to acquire ISO14001 or  other international EHS Management certifications 
Supporting high-risk operation suppliers with health  and safety  completion rate: 100% 
Assist high-risk operation contractors with ISO 45001  certification for occupational safety and health  management system  completion rate: 100% 
Ensure a cumulative total of 1,500 local suppliers  participate in the ESH training program (Base year: 2016) 
Encourage all major local raw materials suppliers and  75% of back-end packaging materials suppliers to  participate in the Taiwan Continuous Improvement  Competition with 60% of them advancing to the finals 
Decent Work and  Economic Growth 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Encourage Innovation Maintain TSMC's technology leadership and  invest 8.5% of revenue R D expenses annually 
Green Product Innovation Decrease the Product Environmental Footprint  by 30% for each unit product (Base year: 2010) 
Implement Mitigation Strategies to   Climate Risks  Reduce GHG emissions per unit product (MTCO2e   12-inch equivalent wafer mask layers) by 40% 
Strengthen Supply Chain Climate Resilience Invite suppliers to observe our annual emergency  response drill  cumulative total of 300 suppliers have  observed the drill (Base year: 2016) 
Environmental Energy-saving Volunteers Ensure 1,200 volunteer services annually for  environmental causes 
Over 50,000 global patents granted 
Offer 1,200 process technologies and 170  packaging technologies in line with TSMC  technology roadmap 
Ensure all high-energy-consumption suppliers  receives ISO 14064-1 certification for GHG emissions   
completion rate: 100%  NEW 
0 days of production interruption due to climate  disasters 
Industry, Innovation and  Infrastructure  
Climate Action 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Reduce Industrial Waste Output Outsource   0.5 of unit waste disposal per wafer  (kg 12-inch equivalent wafer mask layers)  
Promote a Circular Economy  Develop multiple types of electronics-grade  chemicals for recycling within TSMC 
Chemicals Management Develop analytical abilities for carcinogenic,  mutagenic, and reprotoxic substances for all  materials and assist major suppliers in developing  such abilities 
Better Recycling  Reduce air pollutant emissions per unit product by  50% (Base year: 2015) 
Facilitate Health Management  Ensure zero cases of occupational hazard caused  by exposure to chemicals 
Reduce waste production among major local  suppliers by 35% (Base year: 2014)    
Replace NMP 100% (Base year: 2016) 
Ensure that all processes are free from PFASs with  more than 4 carbon atoms 
 98% reduction rate of volatile organic gases  
Responsible Consumption  and Production 
TSMC Launched Its First ESG AWARD  to Enhance Corporate Sustainability  Performance and Foster Good ESG  Ideas from Employees 
To fulfill its commitment to ESG and sustainable social development,  
TSMC continues to drive positive changes in the world through tangible  
actions. In 2020, TSMC launched its first CSR AWARD to acknowledge  
the fruitful ESG results attained within the Company. This award also  
encourages all TSMC employees to propose brilliant ideas pertinent to the  
Company's five ESG strategic directions, further inspiring employees to  
proactively explore opportunities for improvement within their respective  
duties. In addition, by sharing these ideas, the influence of the common  
good can be extended outside of TSMC. Within half a month since the  
award began accepting entries, we received 785 proposals with 25,883  
employees contributing to the growing momentum of TSMC's culture of  
sustainability. 
In a survey, 100% of TSMC employees who participated in the event stated  
that through the TSMC CSR AWARD, they realized that fulfilling CSR is not  
just a charity cause. More significantly, it enables them to exert influence  
through their expertise and contribute to society and the environment. In  
addition, 98% of the employees who participated in the event shared that  
through the TSMC CSR AWARD, they found the sustainable value of their  
jobs and are more inclined to proactively propose sustainable plans in  
their daily work and put the plans into action. 
  Check out 2020 TSMC CSR AWARD Highlight Video 
An Innovation Pioneer 
Innovation is the foundation of growth and driver for breakthroughs at TSMC. As the leader  in the dedicated IC foundry industry, TSMC embraces innovation from every employee. We  insist on producing sustainable products with high quality and low energy consumption  through leading technologies to help resolve the many challenges humanity faces.   
Protected intellectual  property rights, with 6,900  patent applications globally  and over 12,000 trade  secrets register 
 Innovation Management P.41 
   6,900   12,000 % 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Product Quality P.58 Customer Service P.67 
CMR substance assessment  capability for 100% of  materials  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Customer satisfaction has  exceeded 90% for seven  consecutive years  
Innovation  Management  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Technology Leadership 
Continuous investment in  advanced technology development  to maintain TSMC's technology  leadership in the semiconductor  industry  
Intellectual Property Protection  
Patent protection Continue to strengthen patent portfolio  by keeping patent applications in sync  with the Company's R D resources  to make sure that all research  achievements are fully protected 
Trade secret protection Strengthen business operations  and intellectual property innovation  through trade secret registration and  management which documents and  consolidates the TSMC competitive  trade secret applications 
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
Note : In the wake of adjustments made to the patent portfolio plan for leading technologies, the annual target for 2020 in global patent applications was exceeded, and the long-term goal for 2030 remains unchanged.   
   Maintain TSMC's technology leadership  and invest 8.5% of revenue R D expenses  annually 
   Over 50,000 global patent granted    Exceed 5,500 global patent applications     6,900 global patent applications submitted  Note   
   Over 150,000 trade secret registrations      Exceed 20,000 trade secret registrations  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   3nm process technology in risk production      5nm process technology in volume production    
   Over 12,000 trade secret registrations    
Target: Over 12,000 trade secret registrations  
Target: 5nm process technology in volume production   
Target: Over 5,300 global patent applications 
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
Innovation Management Framework  
In response to the rapidly evolving semiconductor  
industry, TSMC has been striving to build an innovative  
workplace that highly encourages innovation since its  
establishment. In the face of challenges imposed by  
competitors and advanced process technology in 2020,  
TSMC continued to enhance the Company's leading  
technological competitive advantages through an  
internal incentive scheme for innovation. Employees  
are encouraged to bring forth a variety of innovations to  
enhance organizational innovation vitality. Meanwhile,  
we also dedicate resources to helping our customers, the  
industry and academia drive interdisciplinary innovation  
collaborations, including product innovation with our  
customers, technical talent innovation with research  
institutions, and green innovation with our suppliers.   
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Accumulate Internal  Innovation Energy 
Idea Forums  
   Operations 
   Quality and Reliability 
   Corporate Planning Organization 
Innovate Through   Interdisciplinary Collaboration 
Open Innovation Platform  
Collaboration with World-class R D Institutes 
   University Research Center 
   Industry-Academia Joint Development  Project 
   Semiconductor Programs 
   Ph.D. Scholarship 
   Advanced IC Design Program 
   University Shuttle Program 
Total Quality Excellence and Innovation  Conference (TQE) 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Innovative Values  
Realize Innovation 
Technology Leadership 
Intellectual Property Protection 
Intelligent Precision Manufacturing 
Innovation Cases 
   Virtual Design Environment (VDE)  New Model for Industry-academia  Collaboration 
   High-Efficiency Hazardous  Substance Testing Mechanism 
   Smart Technical File Navigation  System 
   Increasing EUV Energy Efficiency 
   Biological Treatment System 
   Waste Management with Full  Traceability 
   Management Mechanism for Stack  Emission Baseline 
Technology Leadership  
In 2020, TSMC continued to expand its scale of research  
and development. The total R D expenditure for the year  
was US  3.72 billion, a 26% increase from the previous  
year and 8.2% of the Company's total revenue Note1.  
The R D team has grown to a team of 7,404 people, a  
13% increase from the previous year. The scale of R D  
investments is on par with top tech companies worldwide  
and even surpasses the scale of some companies.   
Faced with the increasingly difficult challenge to continue  
extending Moore's Law, which calls for the doubling of  
semiconductor computing power every two years, TSMC  
has focused its R D efforts on offering customers first-to- 
market, leading-edge technologies and design solutions  
TSMC focuses on offering customers first-to-market,   leading-edge technologies and design solutions. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Continuous Investment in R D 
that contribute to their product success. In 2020, following  
the application of 5nm technology to mass production, the  
Company's R D organization continued to fuel the pipeline  
of technological innovation needed to maintain industry  
leadership. For TSMC's 3nm technology, the sixth generation  
platform to make use of 3D transistors, TSMC continues full  
development with major customers and has completed IP  
design and started silicon validation, the Company's research  
and pathfinding pushed forward with exploratory studies for  
nodes beyond 2nm, which is the leading-edge technology in  
the semiconductor industry today.  
In addition to complementary-metal-oxide- 
semiconductor (CMOS) logic, TSMC conducts R D on a  
Note 1: As reflected upon the revenue growth in 2020, R D expenditure is slightly under 8.5% of total revenue.  
R D personnel (number of people) R D expenditure (million US ) 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
5,423 5,123 4,766 4,367 3,901 3,392 2,881 
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
2,959 2,850 2,651 2,211 2,067 1,875 1,621 1,366 1,152 943 
wide range of other semiconductor technologies that  
provide the functionalities required by customers for  
mobile System-on-Chip (SoC) and other applications,  
such as smartphones, high-performance computing, IoT,  
and automotive electronics, etc.   
In 2020, TSMC maintained its strong partnership with  
the world's top research institutions, including the  
Semiconductor Research Corporation (SRC) in the United  
States and the Interuniversity Microelectronics Centre  
(IMEC) in Belgium. The Company also continues research  
collaboration with world-class universities, driving  
advancement in semiconductor technology and nurturing  
future talents.  
6,534 6,216 6,145 
Specialty Technologies Interconnect    Packaging Technologies   
CIS CMOS Image Sensor Technology 
3D IC and System-on-Integrated  Chips ( TSMC-SoIC  ) Technology  
Advanced Fan-Out and Integrated  Fan-Out (InFO) Technology 
Power IC Bipolar CMOS-DMOS  (BCD) Technology  
Embedded Flash Memory   Emerging Memory Technology  
Technology Leadership and Innovation 
2019 2018 2020 
   N7  technology entered risk production, the  industry's first commercially available EUV  (extreme ultraviolet) process technology 
   Foundry's first underpanel optical fingerprint  sensor technology in production 
   Developed an industry's unique 90nm BCD  technology offering leading-edge 5-16V power  devices and dense logic integration with  competitive cost, as the next generation mobile  Power Management IC (PMIC) solution 
   Volume production launch of new generation  CMOS image sensors of sub-micron pixel for mobile  applications and development of Ge-on-Si sensor  for three dimensional range sensing applications  with superior performance 
   High-volume production of InFO-PoP Gen-3 for  mobile application processor packaging 
CMOS Logic Technologies 
Specialty Technologies Interconnect   Packaging Technologies   
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
   The world's first 7nm automotive platform 
   Completed process validation for System on Integrated  Chips (SoIC ), an innovative wafer-level package  technology 
   Achieved High-volume production of Gen-4 Integrated  Fan-Out Package on Package (InFO-PoP) for mobile  processor packaging 
   Successful qualification of Gen-5 InFO-PoP advanced  packaging technology for mobile applications and Gen- 2 Integrated Fan-Out on Substrate (InFO-oS) for HPC  applications 
   Developed 40nm BCD (Bipolar-CMOS-DMOS)  technology unique in the industry offering leading- edge 20-24V HV devices with full compatibility to 40nm  ultra-low-power platform and integration of RRAM, in  turn, enabling low power, high integration and small  footprint for high-speed communication interface in  mobile applications 
   Developed 28nm eFlash for high-performance mobile  computing and high performance low-leakage  platforms, which achieved technical qualification for  automobile electronics and micro controller units (MCU) 
   Developed the latest generation CMOS image sensors of  sub-micron pixel for mobile applications and embedded  3D metal-insulator-metal (MiM) high-density capacitors  for global shutter and high dynamic-range sensor  applications 
   5nm FinFET technology led the foundry to successfully  entered risk production 
   7nm FinFET plus technology entered volume production  and led the world to deliver customer products to  market in high volume 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Volume production of industry-leading 5nm process technology 
   Accomplished process validation of SoIC  for both chip-on-wafer (CoW) and wafer-on-wafer (WoW) stacking  using micron-level bonding-pitch processes with promising electrical yield and reliability results  
   Entered high-volume manufacturing of InFO-PoP Gen-5 packaging for mobile application processors and  successfully qualified InFO-PoP Gen-6 for mobile applications with enhanced thermal performance  
   Developed InFO-oS Gen-3, which provides more chip partition integration with larger package size and  higher bandwidth  
   Expanded the 12-inch BCD technology portfolio on 90nm, 55nm and 22nm in 2020, targeting a variety of fast- growing applications for mobile power management ICs with various levels of integration 
   Achieved technical qualification of 28nm eFlash to support automobile electronics and microcontroller units  (MCU) applications  
   Began production of 28nm RRAM technology as a low-cost solution to support the price-sensitive IoT market  
   Achieved technical qualification of 22nm MRAM technology to successfully volume-produce MRAM and  received the Flash Memory Summit 2020's Best of Show award for the most innovative AI application  
   Entered volume production of CMOS image sensors technology, with shrunk sub-micron pixel size and  sensors meeting automotive grade reliability compliance  
TSMC's most advanced technology that leads in both technology and production capacity, enabling revolutionary  products in 2020.  5nm Fin Field-Effect Transistor (FinFET) (N5) technology  
 7nm FinFET (N7) family technologies 
 N12e TM technology  
 22nm Ultra-low Leakage (ULL) (22ULL) analog technology   
Introduce products with industry-leading  RF performances and cost-effectiveness  22ULL RF technology received product tape-outs from over 20 customers in 2020.   22ULL Radio Frequency (RF) (22ULL RF) technology  
 22ULL Embedded Magnetic Random Access Memory (MRAM) technology 
 CMOS Image Sensor (CIS) technology  
 CMOS MEMS (micro electro-mechanical systems) technology  
 3DFabric TM  technologies  
 InFO-PoP (Integrated Fan-Out Package-on-Package) technology  
Medical devices 
Wearable devices IoT microcontroller unit (IoT MCU) 
Advanced mobile device applications  
with high performance and  high energy efficiency  
 AI-enabled IoT applications Smartphones 
5G mobile devices High-performance computing applications 
Artificial intelligence Automotive electronics 
Wireless connectivity to IoT 4G RF 
AI-enabled Internet of Things (IoT) edge computing products   
5G mobile communications High-performance computing  
Smartphones  
5G mobile communications High-performance computing  
Applications 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
In 2020, TSMC helped customers lead the market in rolling out 0.8 m pixel products. Pixel size was further reduced  to 0.7 m within nine months with timely volume production. The smaller pixel size enables 30% higher resolution  for CIS with the same chip size.  
Successfully developed InFO-PoP technology, which integrates 5nm SoC (System-on-Chip) and DRAM (dynamic  random access memory) for advanced mobile device applications. This technology helped deliver several  customer products to market in high volume in 2020.  
Based on 12FFC  technology and its IP ecosystem, TSMC introduced N12e TM  technology in 2020, bringing TSMC's world- class FinFET transistor technology to AI-enabled Internet of Things (IoT) and other high-efficiency, high-performance  edge devices. This technology offers industry-leading low operating power (Vdd), and excellent low leakage performance  of ultra-low-leakage (ULL) SRAM (static random access memory), and new ultra-low leakage devices.  
In 2020, TSMC introduced 3DFabric TM, a comprehensive family of 3D silicon stacking and advanced packaging  technologies, which are comprised of frontend TSMC-SoIC TM 3D silicon stacking and backend 3D interconnect  technologies which include CoWoS  (chip on wafer on substrate) and InFO  (integrated fan-out), providing  customers flexible solutions for integration of chiplets.  
22ULL Embedded MRAM technology IPs completed reliability qualifications in 2020, with  100K cycle endurance  and reflow capability. This technology demonstrated automotive Grade-1 capability and was applied to volume  production for customer wearable products in 2020. 
N7 technology began volume production in April of 2018. By the end of 2020, TSMC has used N7 family  technologies to produce more than one billion fully functional and defect-free chips for products to over 100  customers. 
TSMC successfully helped customers bring monolithic ultrasonic scanners into volume production. 
22ULL analog technology platform, which is fully compatible with logical process, was established in 2020. This  platform offers low-noise 2.5-volt input output (IO) transistors and low temperature-coefficient-of-resistance (TCR)  TaN (Tantalum nitride) thin film resistors to support customers' differentiated analog designs.  
Lead the industry to deliver most  advanced products  
Introduce products with industry-leading  performances and battery life  
Introduce edge AI-products with industry- leading power saving to prolong battery  life of such products  
Introduce leading energy-efficient MCU to  extend battery life for wearables  
Introduce products with industry-leading  performances and energy efficiency  
Lead the industry to deliver most  advanced products  
Introduce products with industry-leading  performances and energy efficiency  
Lead the industry to produce innovative,  high-performance and portable ultrasonic  scanners at affordable low prices to better  human health and living  
Introduce products with differentiated  analog designs  
TSMC Continues to Advance Technologies to Unleash Customer Innovation 
Semiconductors are transforming many key  
industries, including information and communication,  
transportation, education, health care, entertainment,  
agriculture, etc. because of their greater capabilities  
and better energy efficiency through innovations and  
breakthroughs. These advancements are critical to  
the future of electronics that will bring more positive  
impacts on our lives. As the most trusted dedicated  
foundry service provider in the world, TSMC continues  
to deliver industry-leading, next-generation, leading- 
edge semiconductor technologies, as well as offer  
comprehensive specialty technologies and leading  
3D chip stacking and packaging services to help  
customers unleash their innovations and deliver more  
advanced, more capable, more energy-efficient, and  
more affordable products, including smartphones, high  
performance computing (HPC), Internet of Things (IoT),  
automotive, digital consumer electronics, health care  
devices, etc.  
Collaborate with Customer to Deliver  World s First Handheld, Single-probe,  Whole-body Ultrasound System that  Helps Improve Overall Healthcare System  Efficiency 
One remarkable example was our collaboration  
with Butterfly Network, which delivered its next- 
generation Butterfly iQ , the world's only handheld,  
single-probe, whole-body ultrasound system in 2020,  
following the debut of its initial model, Butterfly iQ in  
2018. By delivering groundbreaking performance and  
unparalleled efficiency with faster, sharper, and more  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
detailed imaging, the Butterfly iQ  helps healthcare  
providers around the world save time during diagnosis  
and treatment of patients to improve overall patient  
outcomes. Leveraging Butterfly Network's most  
advanced Ultrasound-on-Chip TM technology and TSMC's  
world-leading CMOS MEMS manufacturing technology,  
the ultrasound transducers can be seamlessly integrated  
on a single chip. The Butterfly iQ  features 15% faster  
frame rates and 60% faster pulse repetition frequency,  
to give healthcare practitioners the clarity they need to  
help get important insights quickly.  
In addition, the Butterfly iQ  extends battery life by  
20% and scanning time by 100% to enhance operation  
efficiency. The high-performance imaging capabilities  
and excellent operation efficiency make this innovative  
product a powerful tool to help healthcare providers  
around the world to make timely diagnosis and  
decisions for treatment, even if they are in underserved  
communities or in remote areas. Additionally, the  
innovative Butterfly IQ  has been shown to be a  
particularly useful tool during the global COVID-19  
pandemic due to its lung imaging capabilities, portability  
and ease of cleaning, as infection control has become  
increasingly important. The Butterfly iQ  marks a big step  
forward for point-of-care ultrasound with its innovations  
and breakthroughs, and will continue to bring significant  
clinical, economic and societal impact going forward.  
In total, TSMC deployed 281 distinct process  
technologies, and manufactured 11,617 products for  
510 customers in 2020 to continue to bring significant  
contribution to the advancement of modern society.  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Butterfly Network Collaborates with TSMC to Unleash Innovation to Help Improve  Patient Outcomes and Efficiency across Global Healthcare Systems  
Butterfly iQ  
TSMC's Role  
IC Product 
   Butterfly Network delivers  new-generation Butterfly  iQ , an innovative handheld,  single-probe, whole-body  ultrasound system   Product Innovation    Breakthrough  
   Butterfly Network puts  ultrasound on a single chip  with its most advanced  Ultrasound-on-Chip TM  technology 
   The Butterfly iQ  features  15% faster frame rates and  60% faster pulse repetition  frequency to deliver sharp  imaging   
   The Butterfly iQ  extends  battery life by 20% and  scanning time by 100% to  enhance operation efficiency  
   Provide world-leading CMOS MEMS manufacturing technology to enable integration  of the ultrasound transducers on a single chip  
   Dedicate a professional engineering team to help Butterfly Network unleash this  product innovation   
Butterfly Network collaborates with TSMC to  deliver its new-generation Butterfly iQ , the  world's first handheld, single-probe, whole-body  ultrasound system that helps improve patient  outcomes and efficiency across global healthcare  systems  Photo: Courtesy of Butterfly Network 
Impact on Society  
   By delivering groundbreaking performance  with fast, sharp imaging and unparalleled  efficiency, the Butterfly iQ  can help  healthcare providers around the globe  save time in their diagnosis and treatment  of patients, improving overall patient  outcomes 
Intellectual Property  Protection 
TSMC constructs a global strategic patent portfolio  
to secure freedom in business operations, strengthen  
leadership in the industry, and protect R D results in  
leading-edge technologies. Based on the Company's  
technology leadership in professional semiconductor  
manufacturing, the global intellectual property portfolio  
strategies combined with innovative analysis methods  
of patent map navigation, the battle-tested patents  
created through invention mining from R D technology  
blueprints to seize the commanding heights in key  
technologies, TSMC generates more patents with higher  
R D investment output rate in the industry. Meanwhile,  
under an innovative patent management mechanism,  
patent prosecution processes are closely monitored  
to ensure quality and efficiency. The Company reviews  
patent portfolio regularly, as well as acquiring patents  
strategically and or collaborating with patent alliance(s),  
to build a comprehensive patent protection network. 
Global Patent Portfolio Strategies 
Ensure freedom in  global operations Protect leadership in  innovative technologies  
Strengthen  overall market  competitiveness  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Establish exceptional  IP reputation  in the industry   
Build Global Strategic Patent Portfolio  
TSMC's number of patent published applications in the  
U.S. ranked third in 2020, setting a new record in history.  
The number of patents issued in the U.S. ranked sixth  
on the list, same as the ranking of patent grants in 2018,  
the historical record. TSMC also ranks first among the  
top ten patent holders in the U.S. in terms of patent  
approval rate. The number of global patent grants  
accumulated has reached 45,000, and 27,000 of which  
were the contributions of 73 recognized TSMC Prolific  
Inventors. Meanwhile, TSMC encourages employees to  
file their inventions for patent applications. In 2020, 459  
employees contributed for the first time to a total of 387  
U.S. patents.  
Four Initiatives of Patent Management  Mechanism 
TSMC implements four IP management initiatives  
under an all-around patent management mechanism  
to protect the Company's R D results and technology  
leadership. The initiatives include strategic patent  
profiling, competitive mining and generating, portfolio  
construction, and portfolio parading. 
TSMC's all-around patent management mechanism  
involves a review mechanism, reward system, promotion  
education, and talent training programs. The Company  
has established a grading mechanism for patent  
prosecutions that reviews invention disclosures,  
manages entire patent application process, and expands  
patent families. It maximizes existing resources to  
generate a highly strategic patent portfolio that has  
significant global influence. Meanwhile, TSMC employees  
are encouraged to continuously file their inventions  
through diversifying innovation-driven mechanisms.  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Patent Achievements with Quality and Quantity in 2020  
   IP Category Profiling  
   Competitiveness    
   Battleground Profiling   
   Patent Map Navigation  
   Patent Prosecution 
   Patent Optimization   
   Patent Family   
   Patent Customization   
   6,900 global patent  applications, including over  3,500 U.S. patent applications  
   Ranked 3 rd in most U.S. patent  published applications, setting   a new record 
   Ranked 1 st in patent published  applications in Taiwan for five  consecutive years 
Patent Grading  
Patent Applications  
   Nearly 4,600 global patent  grants, including over 2,800   U.S. patents  
   Ranked 6 th in patent grants in  the U.S. at a record-high, same  as the ranking in 2018   
   Ranked 1 st in patent grants    
Portfolio  Constructing Portfolio  Parading 
in Taiwan  
Strategic  Profiling   Patent  Generating 
Patents Granted  
   Highest patent approval rate at  
99% among the Top 10 U.S.   patent holders 
   Portfolio Review  
   Portfolio Trooping  
   Battle-tested Patents  
   Portfolio Enforcement KPI  
   Worldwide Profiling  
   Invention Mining  
   Industry-academia  Collaboration Productivity  
   Patent Acquisition  
Patent Quality  
In 2020, the annual TSMC Patent Campaign successfully  
attracted nearly 1,400 entries of inventions, and about  
3,000 employees joined the Online Quiz on patent  
knowledge. Meanwhile, the cross-function Leading  
Technology Invention Forum held eight forums to  
discuss six emerging technologies and received more  
than 700 inventions. 
TSMC also proactively maintains close ties with both  
domestic and international patent offices through  
technical exchanges, assisting patent examiners in  
better understanding the technical content of TSMC,  
and consequently accelerating the patent examination  
process in order to obtain high-quality patent protection.  
In 2020, TSMC was invited to share the Company's  
experiences in IP management in four industry- 
government-academia IP seminars, contributing to the  
widespread of IP education and talent cultivation, and  
facilitating an upgrade in IP protection. Meanwhile, TSMC  
also shares practical experiences and insightful advice  
on patent mechanisms and reviews efficiency to help  
build a comprehensive IP protection mechanism. 
Trade Secret Protection 
TSMC's stable core business is the foundation in fulfilling  
its corporate social responsibility. As TSMC's most  
important intellectual property, trade secrets are not  
only vital to TSMC's competitiveness, but also the driving  
force behind its sustainable innovation. Therefore, TSMC  
built up the Trade Secret Registration and Management  
System to record and track trade secrets that contribute  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
to the Company's technology leadership, manufacturing  
excellence, and customer trust. As of December 2020,  
over 100,000 trade secrets have been registered and  
recorded by more than 30,000 employees in the system. 
TSMC proactively and systematically manages its key  
trade secrets as formatted records. Adhering to its  
culture of innovation and attitude of pursuing excellence,  
TSMC constantly improves its Trade Secret Registration  
and Management System by actively applying artificial  
Benefits of the Trade Secret Registration and Management System Number of Trade Secrets Registered    Each Year 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
2017 2019 2018 2020 Year 
intelligence technology to keep up with the updates  
in technology trends and clusters. The Company also  
established a talent pool to maximize the operational  
efficiency and benefits of this Trade Secret Registration  
and Management System for sustainable technology  
innovation and strengthened overall competitiveness. 
TSMC is fully committed to continuously enhance trade  
secret management to maintain an innovative culture. To  
recognize employees for their outstanding contributions  
When there is a breach  of rights, it can quickly  collect data on the case 
It monitors and prevents  trade secret leakage 
Strategic Management  of IP Portfolio 
Enhance  Competitiveness   
to the Company, TSMC presents the "Golden Trade  
Secret Award" every year to registered trade secrets  
that have the most significant impact on company  
competitiveness. As of 2020, TSMC has presented  
1,616 Golden Trade Secret Awards to more than 4,000  
inventors. In 2020, TSMC Chairman Dr. Mark Liu conferred  
special awards in appreciation of the talented inventors  
who have earned numerous awards and honors  
throughout the past six years.  
It is integrated with other  corporate internal systems to  maximize synergy 
Inventions, technology  innovation or  improvements in  TSMC operations are  comprehensively  documented in the  online system 
Intelligent Trade Secret Management System Powered by Intelligent Automation and AI 
Integrated with Human Resources System Integration 
TSMC s trade secret registration system  integrates with the human resources  system and automatically updates  employees' registration information  in its human resources file. This serves  to highlight employees' contributions  to TSMC s technological innovations  and serve as an important indicator for  supervisors to consider for performance  evaluation and promotion 
Intelligent Reminder Function  
The trade secret system automatically  compares employees' trade secret  registration records, and reminds them   to complete the registration process   in a timely manner 
Real-time Data Visualization Analysis  
TSMC systems uses advanced information  analysis software to visualize trade secret  registration data and provide employees  with real-time updates and precise data  on the quantity of registrations, allowing  them to more effectively understand  their registration status and adjust their  registration strategies more efficiently   
Technology Cluster 
Systematically categorize and  annotate registered cases with  technology family relation to identify  technology clusters 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
TSMC's trade secret registration  system is connected to its  contract management system,  reminding the employees involved  in technology development and  transfer to register the relevant  trade secrets in a timely fashion 
AI Chatbot Support   
TSMC's trade secret AI chatbot  works 24 7 to provide instant replies  to support employee trade secret  registration and protection queries,  thereby enhancing employee trade  secret competency  
Keyword Analysis 
Analyze keywords from previous  trade secret registration data to  compile and uncover technology  development trends 
Talent Pool  
Analyze Golden Trade Secret award  winners' backgrounds to generate  an"elite innovation talent pool"  for TSMC's talent development  planning and strategic  management 
Connected to Contract  Management System  
Intelligent Precision Manufacturing 
As the world's leading semiconductor foundry service  
provider, TSMC is the first to realize automated  
manufacturing. The Company has applied AI to the big  
data and machine learning platform for wafer fabrication  
to create an intelligent manufacturing environment  
featuring self-diagnosis and self-feedback capabilities. In  
response to the increasingly diversified and growing need  
for high-quality chips, TSMC initiated a comprehensive  
digital transformation. Digitized fabs are launched to  
transform the manufacturing process. With automated  
data collection, system assistance and AI judgment,  
process efficiency per batch is increased by 30% to 40%.  
In accelerating intelligent manufacturing, TSMC has also  
built an AI quality control system for wafer fabs to ensure  
production quality, facilitate benchmarking among  
different fabs, and strengthen technology transfer  
In intelligent manufacturing, TSMC introduced  
augmented reality (AR) and mixed reality (MR)  
technologies to enable cross-fab collaboration remotely.  
In 2020, iWorker, a remote work system was further  
adopted to enhance remote access management and  
internet traffic control. The system allows for over 2,000  
employees to work from home simultaneously during  
peak hours in one day, which is a timely solution to  
limited access to regular workplaces as a result of the  
COVID-19 pandemic. 
Since TSMC first introduced automated transport and  
overhead hoist transfer (OHT) systems to 8-inch fabs in  
2019 along with the demand forecasting and dispatch  
TSMC led the semiconductor industry by realizing automated  manufacturing. 
system, automated transport per day has exceeded  
150,000 times as of December 2020. By providing a safe  
and friendly work environment, the systems help more  
than 3,000 employees increase work efficiency by 10 to  
15%. The adoption effectively increases productivity and  
reduces risks of ergonomic injuries resulting from the  
handling of heavy objects. 
Armed with intelligent precision manufacturing  
technology, TSMC is expected to move towards  
intelligent assistive manufacturing and switch to  
fully automated intelligent manufacturing TSMC will  
continue to inject innovation vitality into the global IC  
industry and be a trusted, long-term partner with our  
customers. 
Timeline of Intelligent Precision Manufacturing  
Intelligent  Manufacturing  Automated  Manufacturing  Digital  Transformation  
Automation   Launched  
2000 2010 2011 2013-2016 2017 2019 2020 
    First automated 12-inch GIGAFAB  facilities in the industry built 
   100% automated wafer fabrication achieved 
Wafer Dispatching  
Material Transfer   
Automation   
Equipment   Automation  
Automation  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Enhanced   Automation 
   Computer Integrated Manufacturing system established to  integrate highly repetitive and inefficient work    Productivity of employees at mature manufacturing process  facilities increased by 10% to 15% annually 
Wafer  Big Data  Infrastructure  
Manufacturing   
Intelligent   
   Wafer Big Data  Infrastructure  constructed    Analysis results  produced by  artificial intelligence  introduced to the  manufacturing  system 
High-performance  Computing  
Integrated Data  Platform  
Cross-field  Talent   
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Big Data Analytics for Semiconductor Manufacturing  Contest held for three consecutive years in collaboration  with MoST and NTHU, with 300 teams from 50 universities    Big data courses collaborated and improved together  with NTU, NTHU, and NCTU, providing both theoretical  and practical teaching in class 
Cultivation  
Machine  Learning  Platform  
Enhanced  Intelligent  System AI and Knowledge   
   Machine learning development platform constructed to accelerate development and expand scale of application 
   A program to cultivate 300 machine learning experts launched 
Process  Interdependence   
Experts Take Part in Intelligent Model Development 
Target  Analysis  
Knowledge Base  
Manufacturing  Process  Characteristics  
Data  Preprocessing  
Intelligent Pool  
Enhanced   
   Research pool  consisting of 1,000  IT experts and 300  machine learning  experts recruited    Efforts to develop  advanced technologies  and potential  applications through  the intelligent system  continued 
Manufacturing Process and  Equipment Control  
Intelligent Scheduling and  Precise Dispatching  
Equipment Productivity  Optimization  
Ergonomic Productivity  Enhancement  
Quality Monitoring  and Control  
Integration  
   Engaged experts and  professionals in the  development of an AI model  that integrates human  knowledge and computer AI    Conducted interdisciplinary  exchanges with Harvard  University, University  of Cincinnati, and Ohio  State University on the  latest AI applications  and development  in semiconductor  manufacturing 
Transformation  
Remote Work System  
AI Quality Control  
Augmented  Mixed Reality  
Digital Fab  
   In response to the COVID-19 pandemic,  TSMC ramps up digital transformation,  using AR and MR technology to enable  cross-fab remote collaboration and  strengthen inter-fab technology transfer  capacity. 
   Initiated digitized fabs to transform  the manufacturing process, effectively  increasing process efficiency by 40% 
Inter-fab  Technology Transfer  
Cross-fab Remote  Collaboration  
Intelligent  Precision  Manufacturing  
TSMC's Five OIP Alliances  
Open Innovation Platform  
TSMC's Open Innovation Platform  is a comprehensive  design technology infrastructure that continuously drives  innovation. It encompasses all critical IC implementation  areas to effectively reduce design barriers and improve  customers' first-time silicon success. Throughout the  collaboration with OIP partners, spanning among  five alliances of Electronic Design Automation (EDA),  Intellectual Property (IP), Cloud, Design Center Alliance  (DCA) and Value Chain Aggregator (VCA), TSMC actively  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
EDA Alliance 
The foundry segment's earliest certification program, covering  Electronic Design Automation (EDA) tools that are required for  all IC design stages, timely delivering design tool enhancement  required by new process technologies 
Value Chain Aggregator Alliance 
Integrate design enablement building blocks and provide  specific services at each link in the IC value chain, such  as IP development, front-end   back-end designs, wafer  manufacturing, assembly, and testing 
Cloud Alliance 
The industry's first in offering OIP Virtual Design Environment  (OIP VDE), lowering entry barriers for customer's adoption of  Cloud solutions, to speed up product design by fully utilizing the  high-performance compute available in the Cloud 
synergizes and realizes innovative thinking, under the  common goal of shortening design cycle time, time-to- volume, time-to-market, and ultimately time-to-revenue. 
As OIP moves into its 13 th anniversary, TSMC has  been facilitating the collaboration   communication  annually with OIP alliance partners on the latest  process requirements, to infuse the most advanced  semiconductor technology know-hows into their EDA,  IP, Cloud products,  and design services. Thus, TSMC  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
continues to expand its ecosystem solutions to be timely  available to customers so they can enhance Power,  Performance and Area (PPA) in their products. This  helps achieve co-optimization among TSMC process  technologies, OIP enablement solutions, and customer  product designs. By 2020, TSMC had provided customers  with more than 12,000 different technology files and  450 Process Design Kits (PDKs) via TSMC-Online TM from  0.5um to 3nm, as well as a portfolio of more than 35,000  IP titles from 0.35um to 3nm. Those deliverables support  
IP Alliance 
The silicon-proven Intellectual Property (IP) portfolios are  available to meet foundry segment's design application needs 
Design Center Alliance 
Offering services ranging from system-level front-end design  to back-end physical test implementation 
customers for quick   reliable design and delivery of  
innovative products to fuel the incessant growth of  
global technology development. 
In August 2020, TSMC held its online Technology  
Symposium and OIP Ecosystem Forum for the first time  
to maintain an important and close connection with  
worldwide customers and ecosystem partners during  
the COVID-19 pandemic. 
 During the annual events, a complete set of design  
solutions were unveiled jointly with OIP alliance partners,  
as a result of tight partnership, to address the market  
demands for application-specific platforms of Mobile,  
High Performance Computing (HPC), Automotive, and IoT  
in the aspects as shown in the graph on the right. 
TSMC was recognized by IEEE, the world's largest  
professional association dedicated to advancing  
technology, with the 2021 Corporate Innovation Award  
in December 2020 to highlight its leadership in foundry  
technologies along with its Open Innovation Platform ,  
which have enabled many revolutionary products in  
5G mobile and energy-efficient, high-performance  
computing that have brought fundamental changes to  
the way we live and work.  
"The IEEE extends its congratulations to TSMC for  
For the recognition of the contributions   outcomes  
that were delivered by OIP alliance partners from the  
collaborative activities, TSMC announced the 2020 OIP  
Partner of the Year Awards for Excellence in Accelerating  
Silicon Innovation. 
receiving the 2021 Corporate Innovation Award.  
TSMC's achievements in both developing 7nm  
technology, and enabling the innovations of IC  
designers everywhere, have placed it among a  
select group of organizations that have made lasting  
contributions to the field of engineering, and to the  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
 Dr. Toshio Fukuda, IEEE President and CEO 
Comprehensive Solutions in Advanced, Specialty and Wafer Level System Integration Technologies 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Design solutions are ready for Power Performance Area (PPA)  exploration for smartphone and HPC applications 
   Design solutions and ecosystem are ready and have been  applied to real customer production chips    Comprehensive automotive design solutions   ecosystem are  under development 
   Design solutions and ecosystem are ready and have been  applied to real customer production chips 
   Design solutions and ecosystem are ready and have been  applied to real customer production chips    Comprehensive automotive design solutions   ecosystem  developed 
   Supports AI-enabled IoT products 
   Contains design solutions for further speed power  enhancements 
   Design solutions and ecosystem are ready and have been  applied to real customer production chips    Comprehensive automotive design solutions   ecosystem  developed 
Advanced Technology 
   Design reference flows are available to support customer's 3DIC designs in  chip, packaging, and system integration implementation   verification to  enable better system performance 
   TSMC's 3DFabric TM is available to provide a family of advanced packaging  solutions for Mobile and HPC design applications 
   Integrated Specialty Technology Platform is established to provide optimal  system-level solutions. 
   The Platform covers NVM (Non-Volatile Memory), HV (High Voltage), Sensor,  Bipolar-CMOS-DMOS (BCD), Ultra-Low Power Ultra-Low Leakage (ULP ULL),  Analog, Radio Frequency (RF), and Logic technologies 
   TSMC's 3DFarbric TM provides solutions that comprise Front-End (FE) 3D  technology for chip stacking using SoIC TM (System on Integrated Chips), and  Back-End (BE) technology for advanced packaging using InFO (Integrated  FanOut) and CoWoS  (Chip on Wafer on Substrate) 
Wafer Level System Integration Technology  
Specialty Technology 
University Programs 
Talent cultivation is among the five primary sustainable  development goals of TSMC. Through collaboration with  universities, TSMC is dedicated to enhancing domestic  talent quality and industry competitiveness through STEM  education. In addition to offering consistent resources,  TSMC initiates university programs under three main  themes: research collaboration, talent cultivation, and  career exploration for students. In 2020, TSMC founded the  TSMC Scholarship for Ph.D. Students and expanded the  scope of semiconductor and IC layout design courses in  the curriculum. The Company also hosted events like the  TSMC X Microsoft Careerhack to continuously invigorate  the innovative momentum in the industry.  
Note: Learn more about the Internship Program in Talent Attraction and Retention- Talent Recruitment in this report.  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
   University Research  Center  
   Industry-Academia  Joint Development  Project  
   TSMC University  Shuttle Program  
Research  Collaboration  
TSMC University Programs  
Talent   Cultivation  
   Semiconductor  Programs  
   IC Layout Design  Program  
   Internship Program  
   Research Assistantship  
   TSMC Ph.D. Scholarship  
University Research Center 
TSMC has established research centers in collaboration  
with top-ranked universities in Taiwan and dedicated  
research funds to encourage university professors  
to conduct groundbreaking semiconductor research  
projects. As the research centers strive to develop  
leading-edge technologies in semiconductor devices,  
material science, manufacturing process, and IC design,  
they are also training talents in semiconductor research.  
In 2020, more than 215 professors and 2,800 outstanding  
students in electronic engineering, physics, material  
science, chemistry, chemical engineering, and mechanical  
engineering joined TSMC's university research centers.  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   TSMC  Microsoft  Careerhack 
Career Exploration   for Students  
Industry-Academia Joint  Development Project 
TSMC works with universities in Taiwan and overseas   
to promote joint development projects. A variety  
of innovative research topics cover technologies in  
transistors, conductors, materials, simulation, and  
design technology. In 2020, TSMC collaborated with 89  
professors in 25 universities on 86 industry-academia joint  
development projects. The annual research funds exceed  
NT 338 million, and over 157 U.S. patent applications  
were filed. 
Note: The maximum grant amount given to an undergraduate department is 100 thousand, 120 thousand to a graduate program, and 360 thousand to a  Ph.D. program. Grants were given to 86 undergraduate students, 55 graduate students, and 45 Ph.D. students in 2020.  
University Research Center   Industry-Academia Joint Development Project 
Collaboration Project  University  Beneficiary Collaboration Details   Dedicated Resources   
Industry-Academia  Joint Development  Project  
University  Research Center  
   National Yang Ming Chiao  Tung University    National Taiwan University  
   National Cheng Kung  University    National Tsing Hua  University  
   10 universities in Taiwan  and 15 universities  overseas 
Beneficiary Students and professors 
Offer research assistantship to  encourage outstanding students to  focus on the study of semiconductor  devices, materials, manufacturing  processes, and IC design without  financial burdens     
Beneficiary Professors 
Offer research funds to encourage  university professors to propose new  semiconductor research programs  and cultivate semiconductor talents  
Number of Industry- Academia Joint Development  Projects in 2020  
NT 17.88 million 
Nearly NT 17.88 million  awarded in 2020 to 186  students Note  
NT 388 million 
A total of NT 338 million in  research funds dedicated  to 86 joint development  projects in 2020  
TSMC Ph.D. Scholarship 
To facilitate the quality and R D capabilities of key talents  
in Taiwan's semiconductor industry, TSMC launched a  
new Ph.D. scholarship in 2020, offering Ph.D. students  
NT 500,000 in grants per year to a maximum of five  
years, NT 2.5 million in total. The scholarship program  
also invites senior TSMC managers to be mentors in  
collaboration with university professors. By offering  
industry-academia research resources, outstanding  
students are encouraged to pursue Ph.D. degrees in  
studies pertinent to the semiconductor industry. A total of  
22 students received the scholarship in 2020.   
"I am honored to have received the recognition  
"Receiving TSMC's Ph.D. Scholarship is a huge   
of TSMC's Ph.D. Scholarship and benefited from  
meeting the experienced mentors. Every lesson  
learned from the mentor gives me an in-depth  
understanding of the industry. I really appreciate  
TSMC for the resources and opportunity." 
encouragement for me. It's more than just a financial  
relief to me. The mentoring program enables me to  
more vividly envision my future research direction  
and life goals."  
 Han-Fang Hsueh, Ph.D. Student,  Division of Electronic Materials,  Department of Materials Science and Engineering,  National Taiwan University  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
 Sheng-Tsung Lai, Ph.D. Student,  Department of Electrical Engineering,  Yuan Ze University   
Advanced IC Design Program 
The complexity of IC design rises with the rapid  
advancement of design applications in 5G, AI, and high- 
performance computing. In keeping up with Moore's Law  
that drives the development of 5nm and more advanced  
technologies, it is becoming increasingly challenging for  
wafer manufacturing technologies to seamlessly cater  
to customer's IC designs. To ensure the competitiveness  
in power, performance, and area (PPA) of end products,  
TSMC is leading the industry in the cultivation of top  
IC design and layout talents well-versed in design    
technology co-optimization (DTCO). 
TSMC Advanced IC  Design Program  (Pre-courses)  
TSMC-NTUT  IC Layout and  Design Courses  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
TSMC instructors    
   Theories and teachings 
   Conduct circuit design  case studies    Demonstrate IC design  flow in advanced   technologies     Introduce key IC  manufacturing process,  layout techniques and  IP resources      Offer onsite tutorials  and Q A     Offer summer internship  opportunities  
University instructors 
TSMC's Involvement Course Detail   Frequency Beneficiaries  Partnering University  
"TSMC's Advanced IC Design Program is very helpful  
in eliminating the industry-academia gap. Especially  
with TSMC instructors offering first-hand industrial  
knowledge, students get a more concrete sense of  
the industry's demand and the most up-to-date  
advanced process technologies. The program also  
helps students better identify their future goals and  
career plans."  
 David Hung-I Su, Adjunct Professor  at the Department of Engineering and System Science,        National Tsing Hua University 
   Introduction to IC design  and 3D IC in advanced  technologies    Standard cell design in  advanced technologies 
   IC layout  
   IC layout in advanced  nodes and apply AI in  assisting IC layout 
6 hours Six hours per school 800 students The complete program is to be  launched in 2021. An estimate of  800 students will join the program.  150 students A total of 150 students in 2020   
18 lessons 18 lessons semester  150 students A total of 150 students since 2016  
Before the course, 58% of the  students did not know that  TSMC offers jobs in IC design 
After the course, 87% of the  students understand the key  role TSMC plays in the IC design  industry and look forward to  joining TSMC in IC design jobs 
   National Taipei University  of Technology   
   National Tsing Hua  University     National Yang Ming Chiao  Tung University     National Taiwan  University of Science and  Technology  
More universities are next  in line to join the program. 
"The six-hour pre-course of TSMC's Advanced IC Design  
In 2020, the pre-courses of TSMC Advanced IC Design  Program was first launched in National Tsing Hua  University as an extended program based on the TSMC- NTUT IC Layout and Design Course that has been  running for six years. A team of TSMC professionals  carefully design course materials with a goal to expand  the original IC layout courses into a comprehensive IC  design program. In the courses, students learn about  how TSMC maintains its technology leadership while  shorting customers' time-to-market with DTCO design  solutions, including electronic design automation (EDA)  tool certification and design flow enablement for each  new process technology. In December 2020, the pre- courses was launched at National Tsing Hua University,  National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, and National  Taiwan University of Science of Technology. 
The official launch of the TSMC Advanced IC Design  Program will take place in the first semester of 2021.  TSMC has also planned differentiated compensation  packages as an incentive for students who finish the  program to join the industry upon graduation. TSMC  endeavors to continuously incubate semiconductor   
Program is invigorating. It not only deepens my  
understanding of TSMC but also gives me a clear view  
of practical IC design flow in advanced technologies.  
It has intrigued me to further join the semiconductor  
industry and thrive." 
 Hung-Teng Wu, participant of the pre-course of  TSMC Advanced IC Design Program and student of  the Department of Power Mechanical Engineering,  National Tsing Hua University  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
talents on campus and contribute to the growth of a  domestic talent pool for semiconductor and IC design. 
University Shuttle Program 
Committed to the cultivation of semiconductor talents,  
TSMC helped professors and students of 16 universities  
around the world in turning IC design into actual chips  
and verifying their designs in application through the  
TSMC University Shuttle Program in 2020. The free-of- 
charge support also gives students a chance to access  
TSMC's industry-leading manufacturing process.  
While over 70% of the schools involved in TSMC University  
Shuttle Program switched to teaching remotely in the  
wake of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, the program  
has not been jeopardized by the pandemic and distance.  
The number of publications made through the TSMC  
Shuttle Program of the year reached 93 in the year. In  
addition, the program has proven that student research  
is more than just innovative ideas but highly feasible  
designs that can become high-yield chips with the help  
of TSMC. Moreover, ten papers of the total publications  
were elected into the International Solid-State Circuits  
Conference (ISSCC), a prestigious conference known as  
the "Olympics of IC design." 
In addition to 5G, wireless communications, memory  
application, Artificial Intelligence, wearable devices,  
security applications, and biotechnology, the research  
fields for the program in 2020 also covered global  
sustainability trends like low-energy-consumption  
technologies. Researches on energy efficiency,  
including UCLA's radio frequency research, Stanford  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
University's biomedical research, UC Berkeley's wireless  
communications research, University of Michigan's  
pulse-injection crystal oscillator design, National Tsing  
Hua University's research on memory, and many applied  
research of National University of Singapore, are a strong  
indication that contemporary research is no longer  
focused on technological feasibility only. Power-saving  
features and durability which are the key factors in  
sustainable commercialization were also covered by the  
"We have been working with the TSMC University  
"Thanks to the TSMC University Shuttle Program, the  
Shuttle Program for the past years in the rapidly  
changing, wide range of memory applications. In  
addition to having cultivated numerous students  
of excellence dedicated to memory research, we  
regularly share our research findings at globally  
renowned conferences and journals which are met  
with acclamation across the industry, academia, and  
research institutions." 
innovations we've worked tirelessly on were finally  
realized. Also, the early exposure to TSMC's industry- 
leading technologies gave me a competitive edge  
over my peers during job hunting." 
 Dr. Win-San Khwa, Department of Electrical Engineering,  National Tsing Hua University, a former participant of the  TSMC University Shuttle Program   (Now a Corporate Research engineer at TSMC) 
 Dr. Marvin M.F. Chang, Distinguished Professor at the  Department of Electrical Engineering,  National Tsing Hua University 
2020 University Program Manufacturing  Technology and Field of Research   
   Non-volatile memory  (NVM)   
   Analog signal circuits  
   Digital signal circuits   
   5G and wireless  communications  
   Memory applications  
   Artificial Intelligence  
   Wearable devices  
   Security applications  
Manufacturing Technologies  Provided to Students 
Research Applications  in Recent Years 
   Mixed signal circuits  
   RF circuit design  
   Ultra-low power (ULP)  
   Biotechnology   
   Automotive and  drone related radar  applications   
   Data center internet  backbone  
Key Academic Collaborators and Research Direction in 2020   
National Tsing Hua  University 
National Tsing Hua  University    Meng-Fan Chang  
National Taiwan  University    Shen-Iuan Liu     Phase-locked Loop Based on Oscillator and Filter  Integration 
National Taiwan  University    Tai-Cheng Lee     Phase-locked Loop Based on Voltage Controlled  Oscillator Using Sub-sampling Technique 
National University  of Singapore 
University College  Dublin   
University of  Michigan   
National Yang Ming  Chiao Tung University    Shyh-Jye Jou     A Communication Millimeter-wave Baseband System  with Self-healing and Testing functions 
National Yang Ming  Chiao Tung University    Wei-Zen Chen     112-Gb s PAM4 Cable Transmitter and Receiver    A novel optimized algorithm for data clock recovery on circuit, integrated with ultra-low- noise frequency synthesis technique to enhance modulation capacity   
National Yang Ming  Chiao Tung University 
Note: Cooperative partners are sequenced in alphabetical order. 5G High Speed Ethernet Technologies   Wireless Communication Automotive Drones   AI Wearable Devices Memory Applications Security Applications  
University Professor Research Project Title Innovative Results  Application 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
   Chrong-Jung Lin  
   Ya-Chin King     Stackable 3D Resistive Random Access Memory (RRAM)    Identical chip size to allow for more usable memories under three- dimensional structures  
   Massimo Alioto    Error-correcting and Physically Unclonable Function  (PUF) Based Key Generation Architecture  
   Yen-Cheng Kuan     W-band Multi-user Interference-tolerant Radar System    High-precision frequency hopping radar system supporting simultaneous operations of  multiple users without interfering with one another   
   Robert Bogdan    Low-power Phase-locked loop Based on Charge- Sharing Locking Quadrature 
   David Blaauw 
   Dennis Sylvester 
   Color image recognition and high energy-efficient  computation using Resistive Random-Access Memory  (RRAM) and Static Random Access Memory (SRAM) 
   Ultra-low-power Crystal Oscillator with High-energy   
Pulse Injection 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Improve the sensitivity of voltage and temperature  fast phase lock with different input signal  
   Sub-sampling techniques applied to a voltage-controlled oscillator to effectively reduce  noise under 5G high-frequency environment 
   High-speed parallel computational memory featuring both storage and computation  functionalities to drastically reduce the latency and space overheads of data movement in  traditional edge processors, thereby speed up computation and reduce energy consumption 
   Equipped with error correcting function integrated with machine learning to significantly  reduce voltage and temperature sweeps compared with traditional unclonable key  generation structure   
   Using Smart Sensing Technique and calibration method to reduce the complexity of analog  circuit design and increase communication throughput   
   Suppress oscillator phase noise and achieve ultra-low jitter through enhancing phase noise  endurance and injecting energy into oscillator  
   Injected with frequency-divided, high-energy, low-frequency pulse to significantly reduce  power consumption and disturbing of the crystal oscillator 
Virtual Design Environment (VDE) in the Cloud Created a New Model for Industry-academia Collaboration,            
Contributing to the Tape-out Success of TSMC's First Academia-Developed 16nm FinFET Chip through University Shuttle Program 
TSMC continues to expand R D activities to secure  
its leadership in semiconductor technologies. As the  
development of TSMC's advanced manufacturing  
technology is moving forward at full speed while  
also maintaining the protection of TSMC proprietary  
information, TSMC launches the University Shuttle  
Program to share its process technologies with  
university professors and students for research.  
The program actively bridges the gap between  
academia and the industry.   
 "Through VDE, the first N16 FinFET University  
 "TSMC University Shuttle Program in conjunction  
Case Study 
Shuttle Program chip tapeout was achieved.  
Stanford University and TSMC have created  
an innovative model for industry-academia  
collaboration that amplifies top research results  
by integrating advanced industrial process  
technology. It inspires more innovation to  
become a reality in the semiconductor industry. " 
with the Virtual Design Environment in the  
cloud is simply an unprecedented combination.  
Students get to realize their innovative ideas  
using industry-leading advanced process  
technology. It is an incentive to attract more  
talents to join the semiconductor industry. " 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
 Dr. Philip Wong, Chief Scientist at TSMC  
 Dr. Mau-Chung Frank Chang,  Distinguished Professor at UCLA    
In 2020, TSMC expanded the architecture of Virtual  Design Environment (VDE) in the cloud that was originally  intended only for customers. After eliminating the  concerns in information security, universities now can  access TSMC advanced technology process database  via VDE remotely to support research and teaching on  IC design. This innovative cloud-based solution has  greatly helped universities to take a stride directly into  N16 FinFET technology for the first time, by two to three  generations ahead of previously applicable process  technologies in 40nm and 28nm.  
To amplify the impact of TSMC's University Shuttle  Program, TSMC offered N16 FinFET technology to  universities in 2020, starting from the long-term industry- academia collaboration with Stanford University in the  United States. A research team led by Dr. Mark Horowitz  of Stanford's Electrical Engineering Department was  the first to adopt the Virtual Design Environment (VDE)  for the research on AI accelerator chips for deep neural  network (DNN) in N16 FinFET technology. In December  of the same year, the research team transmitted the  IC layout design through VDE to TSMC and completed  tapeout. Through TSMC's University Shuttle Program,  the IC design was realized in actual silicon. This is the  first N16 FinFET chip created by academia through TSMC  University Shuttle Program and it advanced AI research  in a big way. 
Meanwhile, another long-time partner, the UCLA research  team has also started research on RF circuits based on  N16 FinFET process technology via TSMC VDE that will be  under the guidance of distinguished professor Dr. Mau- Chung Frank Chang.  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
TSMC University Shuttle Program Facilitates Foresight IC Design 
   TSMC launched VDE  to enable customers  to conduct IC design  in the Cloud for the  first time. 
    Provide leading-edge FinFET  process technology to  minimize the gap between  industry and academia 
Remote Display Process Data and  Design Collaterals 
Tapeout Data of  Chip Designs 
   The optimization of VDE architecture was  completed catering to campus research  applications.    Stanford University's first N16 FinFET IC design  turned into reality.    UCLA research on RF circuit was underway. 
    Pioneered VDE as the new  model for industry-academia  collaboration in advanced  technologies  
    TSMC security certified,  ensuring TSMC FinFET  technology protection 
University TSMC VDE No Data Landing 
    Allows students to access  leading node technology for  the first time through VDE for  researches  
    Only designated professors  and students can login VDE  from pre-defined IP addresses,  strengthening TSMC data  security control 
   Plan to extend collaboration  with National Yang Ming  Chiao Tung University and  National Taiwan University 
Product Quality 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Enhance Quality Culture 
Improve Quality Capability 
   Promote continuous  improvement programs to  enhance the internal quality  culture 
   Encourage local suppliers  to participate in the Taiwan  Continuous Improvement Award  to strengthen a culture of quality  and competitiveness within  TSMC's local supply chain 
   Leverage machine learning  to construct a visual defect  inspection and classification  system for outgoing 12-inch  wafers to increase employee  productivity  
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
   Increase the productivity of each visual  inspection worker that is responsible for  outgoing packages by 5% per month and 50%  accumulatively (Base year: 2019)  
 Generate up to NT  20 billion in value  from improvement projects and involve  outstanding projects in the Taiwan  Continuous Improvement Award  
 Encourage 100% of major local raw materials  suppliers and 75% of back-end packaging  materials suppliers to participate in the  Taiwan Continuous Improvement Award  60%  to advance to the finals Note 1 
   Increase the productivity of each visual  inspector  that is responsible for outgoing 12- inch wafers to 7,000 pieces 
Note 1: Major suppliers are those that meet at least one of the following conditions: 1. accounted for 85% of purchasing expenses  2. single-source supplier  3. ongoing orders in each quarter. 
Note 2: Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, fewer suppliers were involved with the award. The suppliers not engaged with the award shared experiences remotely. 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
 Generate NT  12 billion in value from  improvement projects and involve at least  five outstanding projects in the Taiwan  Continuous Improvement Award 
   Increase the productivity of each 12-inch  wafer outgoing visual inspector to 5,570  pieces per month 
 100% of major local raw materials suppliers  and 50% of back-end packaging materials  suppliers to participate in the Taiwan  Continuous Improvement Award  20% to  advance to the finals  NEW 
   Increase the productivity of each visual  inspection worker that is responsible for back- end packages by 10%  
 Generated more than NT  15 billion in value  from improvement projects and involve 6  outstanding projects in the Taiwan Continuous  Improvement Award 
Note2  79% of major local raw materials suppliers  to participate in the Taiwan Continuous  Improvement Award  
 46% of back-end packaging materials suppliers  to participate in the Taiwan Continuous  Improvement Award 
   Increased the productivity of each 12-inch wafer  outgoing visual inspector to 5,423 pieces per month  
   Increased the productivity of each visual  inspection worker that is responsible for back- end packages by 5.5%      
Target: NT 11 billion  5 projects 
Target: 100%  
Target: 30% 
Target: 5,415 pieces 
Target: 5% 
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
 Continued from previous page  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Improve Quality Capability  
   Develop hazardous substance  analysis capabilities in  chemical laboratories to ensure  occupational safety and health  (OHS) 
   Strengthen management for  hazardous substances to improve  green manufacturing 
   Complete reliability qualification  for advanced process  technologies, specialty process  technologies, and wafer-level  package process in the design and  development stage based on the  Company's technology roadmap 
Realize Quality Application  
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
 N-methylpyrrolidone (NMP) 100%  
 No process involves Perfluoroalkyl Substances  (PFASs) that have more than four carbons 
   Complete reliability qualification for advanced  process technologies, specialty process  technologies, and wafer-level package process  in the design and development stage based  on the Company's technology roadmap.  
Note 3: Reduction of NMP usage is limited to sites in Taiwan. Since the substitute chemicals affect the product yield in several sites, formula  testing and adjustments were necessary. TSMC subsidiaries will proceed with chemical substitution in 2021. 
 Develop the ability to analyze 100% of CMR  (Carcinogenic, Mutagenic, and Reprotoxic)  substances and help major suppliers develop  the same capabilities 
replacement (Base year: 2016) 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Complete reliability qualification for advanced  process technologies, specialty process  technologies, and wafer-level package  process per the R D targets 
 Develop the ability to analyze 100% of  CMR substances and help 20% of the major  suppliers to develop the same capabilities  NEW 
 Reduce the use of NMP by 95%  Reduced the use of NMP by 59%   
 VisEra requires photoresist suppliers to  complete the assessment and selection  of substitutes for Perfluorohexanoic acid  (PFHxA) related substances and launch  production line testing 
 Developed the ability to analyze 100% of  
 Did not use PFASs with more than four carbons  for the development of advanced processes of  3nm and below  
   Completed reliability qualification for 5nm process  technology volume production, 22nm Ultra- Low Leakage embedded MRAM IP, and the fifth- generation integrated Fan-Out packaging (InFO) 
Target: 95% 
Target: 100% 
Target: 100% 
CMR substances  
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
TSMC Quality Management System 
TSMC strives to provide global customers with outstanding  semiconductor foundry services. To continuously reduce  product defect, while improving process control and the  timely detection of abnormalities to avoid quality incidents  that may affect our clients, the Quality and Reliability  Organization works alongside other divisions to refine  the quality management system. In 2020, TSMC precisely  defined each process's identification for various packaging  technologies to ensure quality control is implemented  correctly at each stage. TSMC also synchronized the  technology identification system with the customer-facing  business units to enhance the coherence and accuracy of  the flow from ordering to the production lines. In terms  of system management, TSMC set up quality control  procedures with clients (system providers) to ensure  product quality.  
Besides expanding its quality improvement efforts to VisEra,  TSMC established Quality and Reliability laboratories across  the globe to cultivate more advanced, efficient quality  
Note 1: Leverage machine learning to analyze the correlation between raw materials and TSMC process control parameters  build the highly automated Advanced  Materials Analytic Center (AMAC) to enhance the raw material detectability. Note 2: Optimize the naming rules  for different packaging technologies to enhance the raw material detectability. Note 3: Build related quality control procedures to have better cooperation with the system-level customers to ensure product quality. 
 IP Library Development  Quality Assurance 
 Design Kits Deliverables  Management 
Quality Tools Application Potential Failure Mode   Effect Analysis Control Plan Statistical Process Control Measurement System Analysis Continuous Improvement-8Ds 
Design  Service 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Supplier Subcontractor Quality Management Failure Analysis Change Control Platform 
 SPICE Model Management 
 Process Technology  Development Management 
 Built-in Reliability Test 
 Process Release Standard 
Tech  Development 
analysis capabilities, which are the basis for continuously  optimizing processes. Quality is the sound support for  TSMC's technological advancement. In 2020, TSMC set up  the highly automated Advanced Materials Analytic Center  (AMAC), which adopts machine learning in analyzing the  relevance between raw materials and process parameters  to strengthen quality control of incoming materials.  
Devoted to cultivating the next generation of quality  management talents, TSMC continues to invest in the  Industry-Academia Joint Development Project. As of 2020,  the Quality and Reliability Organization has completed 16  research projects with five universities, covering subjects  of materials, process, and chip designs. A portion of  research results has been introduced to the development  of TSMC advanced processes. Meanwhile, TSMC has also  donated premium analytics and measurement equipment  to universities to elevate the quality analysis capabilities  of academic institutions and strengthen the synergy of  industry-academia collaborations.  
 Remote Mask DB  Check 
 Mask Defect  Inspection 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Mask Making 
 Incoming Quality Control  Note 1 
 Advanced Process Control 
 EQ Real Time Monitor  
 Process Reliability Monitor 
 Wafer Acceptance Test 
 Outgoing Quality Gating 
Wafer  Manufacturing 
Interdepartmental Collaborations of the Quality and Reliability Organization  
 Process Quality Control  Note 2 
 Package Reliability Monitor 
 Outgoing Quality Gating 
 System Quality  Procedure  Note3 
Backend  Service 
Business  Development 
Research and  Development  
 Customer Claim  Management 
 Annual Customer  Satisfaction Survey 
Quality and Reliability  Organization 
Customer  Satisfaction 
Customer  Service 
Realize Quality Application  
Improve Quality Capability  
Enhance Quality Culture  
General Affairs  and Management 
Operations 
Enhance Quality Culture  
Quality is the cornerstone of sustainable development  
for TSMC. To ensure product quality and customer  
satisfaction, TSMC strives to improve the quality system  
and methodology. In 2020, the Quality and Reliability  
Organization held company-wide conferences such as  
the Total Quality Excellence and Innovation Conference  
(TQE), training programs, and quality improvement  
projects on experiment design, statistical process control,  
measurement technologies, machine learning, and  
quality auditing. These programs aim to deepen TSMC  
employees' problem-solving capabilities.  
TSMC has held TQE for 28 years, which is a rewarding  
mechanism of public recognition. In 2020, a knowledge  
sharing platform for outstanding projects had been  
created as a new approach of TQE. Organizations and  
divisions were encouraged to learn from one another,  
sparking innovation in quality improvement. In 2020, TSMC  
employees submitted more than 10,000 improvement  
projects, generating more than NT 15 billion in value.  
Notably, more than 240 projects recognized by the TQE  
are now published on the platform. As of December 2020,  
the posts have earned more than 300,000 clicks. 
Moreover, TSMC puts up posters to promote quality  
in all sites, strengthening the commitment to quality  
among TSMC employees. In 2020, more than 99% of our  
employees stated that the posters and sharing of the  
outstanding projects are beneficial to raising awareness  
towards quality. 
TSMC established a new theme - STOP   FIX - in 2019 to  
encourage our employees to take the initiative to prevent  
potential quality abnormality or outdated operation  
standards. In 2019, the category received 5,500 cases. By 2020,  
a total of over 6,500 cases were submitted, generating more  
than NT 4.4 billion in value due to the improvement projects. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
TSMC Quality and Reliability Laboratory Network 
TSMC Company-wide Quality Culture 
All  Employees  
Tainan  RA Lab 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Improvement  Project  
Registration System  
Fab 2 5 Fab 3 Fab 12A Fab 12B 
Document  Review by  Factory  Supervisors 
Over NT 10.9 million   in cash prize Selection by Factory Committee of the TQE 
Knowledge  Sharing Platform  for Outstanding  Projects  
 Chemical Lab 
TSMC (China) TSMC (Nanjing) 
 Chemical Lab 
Subsidiaries Taichung 
Selection  by Factory  Committee  of the TQE 
 PEFA Lab  
Total Quality Excellence and  Innovation Conference (TQE)     Group Production Capacity Improvement  
   Group Quality Improvement  
   Group Cost and Production Support  
   Group ESH and Green Corporation 
   Group STOP   FIX  
   Group Assistant Engineers  
   Group Outstanding Proposals from  Direct Labor    Group Process and Efficiency  Improvement 
 Chemical Lab 
500 Projects 
  6,000 Projects 
More than 6,000 projects have  been recognized as of 2020  
NT 1,090 M 
An average of 500  outstanding projects are  recognized each year  
 Chemical Lab 
 Chemical Lab 
 Special Gas Lab  
Fab 14 Fab 18 
Timeline of Total Quality Excellence  and Innovation Conference (TQE) 
2001 - 2008 2009 - 2014 2015 - 2019 2020 and beyond 
Optimize application  process and  recognition themes 
Expand the  recognition of  outstanding projects 
2020 and beyond 
Preparation stage 
Accumulated Bonus (Unit: NT  10 thousand) Accumulated Effectiveness (Unit: NT  100 million) Accumulated Proposals (Unit: 10,000) 
Strengthen  organizational  learning STOP   FIX 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
 Digitize the project submission  system (including project  registration, review, and  calculation of benefit value) 
 Set outstanding project  standard 
 Optimize the inquiry function  of the submission system 
 Add report analytics to the  submission system 
 Build the knowledge-sharing  platform for outstanding  projects 
2020 TQE-Winning Cases 
Quality Improvement 
Cost and Production  Support 
Breakthrough in the  monitoring structure 
ESH and Green Corporation 
Clean air free of ammonia  safeguards our health 
The exclusive technology of AI  photomask image generation  and matching 
Assistant Engineers 
Tool maintenance and jig  improvement 
Outstanding Proposals  from Direct Labor 
Process and Efficiency  Improvement  
Strengthen IT security  capabilities 
Improve the quality of photo- sensing products 
Establish the first maintenance  and repair center for automated  wafer transportation 
Production Capacity  Improvement 
Improve production capacity  of photomask tools 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Group Improvement Strategy Improvement Benefit 
Established the three major automated systems   Optimized scheduler system for photomask robotic  arms 
 Inspection system for photomask control wafers  Integrated platform for photomask pattern inspection 
 Increased the concentration of ion implantation to  increase color saturation 
 Introduced 3D gates to reduce the after-image effect 
 A first-ever automated monitoring processing structure that  calculates the optimized process and automatically selects  programs and tools 
 Increased monitoring flexibility, reduce the preparation time  for monitoring and reduce the waste of production capacity 
 Vent renovation for tools that produce high  concentrations of ammonia 
 Increased the efficiency of ammonia  removal by washing towers 
 Designed innovative AI models that allow  the computer to generate standardized  photomask images 
 Optimized equipment maintenance  Modularized jigs to reduce the hours  required for tool maintenance 
 Developed recycling and reuse technologies for the motors  Established a standardized calibration procedure for humidity  sensor drift 
 Introduced IT vulnerability scanning tools  Established a review mechanism for new systems  all new  systems must pass the IT security review before going online 
 Replaced 100% of software with no security updates 
Daily output  increased 
Yield increased  
Increased rate of  productivity of the  monitoring staff  
Ammonia emission  reduced by 28 tons  year, at a reduction  rate of   60% 
Intercepted  photomasks  that have quality  concerns 
Reduced alarm  frequency  
Reduced  information security  vulnerabilities  significantly 
Operation time  reduced  
Increased rate of  color saturation  
Reduced rate of  monitoring loss  
Reduced rate of  Ammonia emission  per product unit  
Reduced  inspection time for  photomask tools  
99 points scored  for Corporate IT  security, higher than  the average score  for semiconductor  companies (90 points) 
Reduced motor  scraps and  calibration of  humidity sensors,  and reduced  maintenance costs 
After-image effect reduced by  five times  such improvement  allows photosensors to maintain  ultra-high resolution as the size  continues to become smaller 
140 million per  year (NT ) 
120 million per  year (NT ) 
45 million per  year (NT ) 
38.4 million per  year (NT ) 
30 million per  year (NT ) 
TSMC is entirely devoted to improving quality. By participating  
in the Taiwan Continuous Improvement Award Competition,  
TSMC exchanges practical knowledge on quality  
improvement with peers from other industries and facilitates  
the advancement of all local industries. TSMC also encourages  
employees to observe and learn from the experiences of  
other sectors, which sparks innovation and problem-solving  
among the employees. In 2020, TSMC received five Golden  
Awards, one Silver Award, and one Best Innovation Award in  
the Taiwan Continuous Improvement Award Competition.  
To facilitate the supply chain's sustainability, TSMC also  
encourages suppliers to participate in the Taiwan Continuous  
Improvement Award Competition. In 2019, 100% of the local  
major raw materials suppliers participated  in 2020, TSMC  
first expanded the scope to back-end packaging materials  
suppliers, 46% of whom participated. In 2021, TSMC will  
continue to improve participation and quality, aiming to  
achieve 50% of participation and 20% of advancement to the  
finals. In 2020, TSMC suppliers received four Golden Awards,  
five Silver Awards, and five Bronze Awards. To highlight such  
achievements in quality improvement, TSMC published the  
supplier award list on the official website.  
In 2020, while complying with COVID-19 regulations, TSMC's  
Quality and Reliability Organization promptly adjusted  
strategies and invited suppliers that did not participate  
in the competition to observe as a form of benchmark  
learning. TSMC s quality experts also offered consultation  
remotely, helping the suppliers pinpoint where to improve  
and selected appropriate improvement measures for their  
companies.  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
 TSMC Track Record of Participating in the Taiwan Continuous Improvement Award Competition 
TSMC Track Record of Participating in  the Taiwan Continuous Improvement  Award Competition  
Best Innovation Award Best Innovation Award 
Golden Award Golden Award Silver Award Silver Award Bronze Award Bronze Award 
Golden Award   Best Innovation Award 
Improve defect inspection of  automotive electronics products 
Establish new repair techniques for probe needles,  increasing the productivity of package testing 
Golden Award 
Revolutionize ion implantation for  higher production capacity 
Golden Award 
Golden Award 
Intelligent management of tool  software that safeguards quality 
Golden Award 
Establish an intelligent online inspection  system that increases efficiency 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
2017 2017 2016 2016 2015 2015 2018 2018 2019 2019 2020 2020 
Award Improvement Benefit 
TSMC Supplier Track Record of  Participating in the Taiwan Continuous  Improvement Award Competition 
Increased probe  needle efficiency  
Increased production  capacity  
Improved large-scale  wafer defect  Increased production  capacity Reduced  scraps  
Software version  control reached  
Increased defect  inspection efficiency  
15.7% 97.9% 
Reduced  maintenance time  
Increased the  percentage of  intelligent automation 
Percentage of Raw Material Suppliers  Participating in the Taiwan Continuous  Improvement Award Competition 
Target Participation Rate  Participation Rate 
2017 2016 2015 2018 2019 2020 2014 
Increased total  production  capacity of testing  
312 million per  year (NT ) 
1.8 billion per  year (NT ) 
806.72 million per  year (NT ) 
300 million per  year (NT ) 
4.8 billion per  year (NT ) 
Productivity of Each 12-inch Wafer Outgoing  Visual Inspector Unit: Wafer quantity 
Improve Quality Capability  
In order to improve quality and efficiency, TSMC started  to utilize machine learning technology and method  in 2014, and successfully applied advanced spectrum  analysis to automated classification of wafer defects  so that differences among processes and equipment  were detected, immediately triggering improvements.  TSMC established a defect inspection and classification  Outgoing Visual Inspector Productivity for the system  for 12-inch wafers to refine the consistency of outgoing  inspection and strengthen TSMC's overall competitive  advantage. In 2020, the productivity of each 12-inch wafer  outgoing visual inspector increased to 5,423 pieces per  month. Furthermore, machine learning automation was  expanded to back-end packaging visual inspectors, whose  productivity was increased by 5.5%.  
To fulfill the goals of raw materials and supplier  management, the Quality and Reliability Organization  first applied machine learning to the raw materials  
Goal Actual 
4,441 4,747 4,928 
4,500 4,325 4,860 
2017 2016 2018 2019 2020 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
5,258 5,423 
characteristics monitoring system in 2020, fortifying the  inspection capability of the quality of incoming materials.  Meanwhile, to deepen supplier management, the Quality  and Reliability Organization worked with the Materials  Management Organization to recruit the material quality  improvement project team and increase key checkpoints  on production lines for raw materials quality check. The  project team also asked the suppliers to adopt Statistical  Process Control (SPC) to enhance upstream raw materials  analysis and monitor the consistency of processes and  the quality of upstream raw materials. TSMC requires  suppliers' factories to receive ISO 9001 certification and  ensure that process change management, assessment,  and quality auditing comply with international standards.   
To implement hazardous substance management on  raw materials, especially carcinogenic, mutagenic, and  reprotoxic (CMR) substances, in 2020, TSMC achieved  100% of inspection capabilities and incorporated  hazardous substance management regulations in Supplier  Sustainability Standard, training, auditing, and consultation.  TSMC asks major materials suppliers to secure qualifications  in hazardous substance management, complete testing  and analysis on certain carcinogenic substances, and  include such findings as mandatory items in the Certificate  of Analysis, voluntarily disclosing the quality check results  of incoming materials. Meanwhile, TSMC asks all materials  suppliers to inform TSMC of any supplies and materials  containing any CMR substances and disclose such  information on the Safety Data Sheet following Regulation  of Labelling and Hazard Communication of Hazardous  Chemicals. TSMC categorizes all materials with potential  risks and conducts random sampling tests. By sharing CMR  inspection technology, TSMC can elevate the monitoring  and control capabilities of hazardous substances across  the entire supply chain. In 2020, according to the audit  In 2020, Chairperson of the TCIA Northern Taiwan Steering Committee and Vice President of TSMC, Dr. Jun He (Fourth from the right), served as  the award presenter and encouraged the establishment of a responsible supply chain and inter-industry exchange. 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
results of the Risk Management and Materials Management  Organization, failures regarding hazardous substance  management included insufficient labeling and categorized  storage, insufficient personal protective gear, and failure to  conduct regular product testing for hazardous substances.  Relevant suppliers  implemented corrective measures  according to TSMC's recommendations by December  2020. Meanwhile, in terms of recycling and reusing acidic  solutions, the Quality and Reliability Organization offers  a reliable quality verification and control method that  aids the Operations Organization to keep reducing the  percentage of impurities in acidic solutions. In 2021, TSMC  
plans to share the recycling and reuse technologies with  the chemicals suppliers, expanding the effort to achieve its  sustainable goals of balancing between product quality and  environmental protection.  
In 2020, TSMC once again worked with the SEMI to hold  the second SEMICON in Taiwan to facilitate technological  exchanges and deepen the local supply chain's  sustainability and competitiveness. 
TSMC Develops the High-Efficiency Hazardous Substance Testing  Mechanism of 100% Detection 
To fully track materials with potential risks, TSMC  built the highly automated Advanced Materials  Analytic Center (AMAC), creating an exclusive  database for Carcinogenic, Mutagenic, and  Reprotoxic (CMR) substances. Using three major  spectrometry technologies - inductively coupled  plasma optical emission spectrometry (GC-MS),  chromatography time-of-flight mass- TSMC scans  for carcinogenic substances listed in Group 1  (carcinogenic to humans) by International Agency  for Research on Cancer. In 2020, TSMC completed  the assessment and selection of technologies and  materials for 3nm process, conducted analysis  on 100% of the materials with potential risks, and  identified 178 CMR substances in the semiconductor  materials. TSMC significantly streamlined the  analytic process and reduced the time required  from seven days to twelve hours, elevating testing  efficiency by 93%.  
TSMC adheres to its commitment to hazardous  substance management. Following its chemicals  management procedure, TSMC actively sets up a  defense against CMR and hazardous substances.  Regarding the materials currently in use, once  the chemical laboratory finds CMR substances in  testing, the materials must be tested by an impartial  third party institution and adopt comprehensive  control measures. TSMC would require the business  units that use such materials to assess alternative  chemicals, aiming to substitute the material  completely. If 100% substitute is not immediately  
Case Study 
Acr32664152415744-583136.pdf   1   2021 8 19   11:45 AM 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
TSMC CMR Testing Capabilities 
possible, TSMC will continue to invest in developing  alternatives while providing adequate protective gear  for employees on-site and conducts regular sampling  tests on the operation environment complying  with Regulations of Monitoring Labor Operational  Environment to prevent risks of exposure for the  workers. Regarding new materials, the control and  monitoring are conducted through the TSMC Green  Procurement Survey. TSMC requires that suppliers  provide a certificate of analysis to prove that the  materials comply with regulations to safeguard TSMC  employees and the industry supply chain. 
Actual  Goal 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
2017 2016 2018 2019 2020 
TSMC Hazardous Substance Testing Mechanism 
Materials already  in use on site  
 Require suppliers to list CMR substances as  mandatory items in the Certificate  
 Disclose hazardous substances on the Green  Procurement Survey  
 Continue to assess substitute chemicals for  hazardous substances 
New materials  from suppliers  
Require main raw materials suppliers to  provide analysis certification 
Require testing for hazardous substances  while assessing new materials 
Chemicals  
Complex Origin  Management  
 Three major testing equipment (ICPOES  GCMS LCMS)  
 TSMC exclusive spectrum database for  CMR substances  
 Scanning for 178 CMR substances and  guarantees 100% detection  
 Increasing testing speed by 93% with  high-efficiency technology 
100%  Testing Capabilities 93%  Improved Testing Efficiency 
Comprehensive    Highly Efficient Testing   
Can be replaced  
   Business unit  assessment  on substitute  chemicals  
Deliver materials with potential risks to  third-party testing institutes for testing 
If the materials in use contain hazardous  substances, explore substitute chemicals or  enhance protection 
Metal Radioactive 
Non-polar Organic Polar Organic 
Comprehensive Control  Measures  
Cannot be replaced  
   Enhance  protection with  protective gear  
   Ensure regular  sampling tests  on the operation  environment  
Potentially  Carcinogenic  Matters 
Testing by  impartial  third party  institutions  
Management of Hazardous Substances  from Fabrication 
TSMC's hazardous substance management is based  
on the QC 080000 Hazardous Substance Management  
System Requirement, aiming to avoid entirely or  
minimize the use of hazardous substances that may  
affect human health or pollute the environment.  
TSMC is committed to fully comply with international  
standards and the customers requirements on hazardous  
substances for all customer products.  
Hazardous Substance Management Throughout the Product Life Cycle 
Process Design and Development Stage 
Production Stage 
Disposal Stage 
Product Stage 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Comply with Green Procurement Procedure,  avoiding raw materials containing hazardous  substances for new processes 
Require suppliers to provide documentation  proving that the raw materials comply with  hazardous substance regulations. TSMC  conducts random sampling tests to ensure  compliance with such raw materials 
Sampling every primary product to  third party impartial institutions for  hazardous substance testing every year 
Scrapped products are categorized and  stored according to Waste Disposal Act  and commission legitimate contractors  for proper disposal 
Key Tasks 2020 Achievements 
In 2020, TSMC continued substituting all PFOA-related  
(Perfluorooctanoic acid, PFOA) substances and  
succeeded after multiple improvements and tests. In  
European Union is planning to regulate the substance in  
the future. Within TSMC, only a part of the photoresists  
recent years, the international community have noticed  
concerns for Perfluoroalkyl substances, PFASs, including  
the  6-carbon Perfluorohexanoic acid, PFHxA. The  
used by VisEra contains such substance. Anticipating  
the regulatory tightening worldwide, TSMC has taken 
In 2020, added PFASs with one to four carbons are  substances that require disclosure 
2020 test results all complied with regulations  and TSMC requirements 
In 2020, to minimize hazard, TSMC stipulated the  individual storage management procedure for  scrapped products containing a low amount of  lead solder bump 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
In 2020, TSMC completed testings  for 171 raw materials, whose results  all complied with TSMC regulations 171 
Realize Quality Application  
The Quality and Reliability Organization helps customers  
introduce product reliability needs to product design  
during the stage of technological development. In 2020,  
TSMC's Quality and Reliability Organization collaborated  
with its R D team to focus on the advanced logic  
manufacturing process, specialty process, advanced  
packing technologies development, and quality  
yield, and reliability meet the requirements. 
qualification to ensure that component features, product  
the initiative to assess substitute chemicals with suppliers  
Furthermore, TSMC uses N-Methyl-2-Pyrrolidone (NMP) in  
several photoresist wet-stripping processes. To  
reduce risks of exposure and pollution, TSMC started the  
replacement project in 2016, avoided using 100% of the  
NMP in 7nm and more advanced processes in introducing  
and designing stage of photoresist wet stripping process,  
and existing fabs continued to conduct replacement.  
Since replacement requires changing equipment  
hardware and process parameters, partial sites' product  
yield was affected and had to undergo multiple formula  
adjustments and testings. In 2020, TSMC continued to  
work closely with several customers, assessing substitute  
materials for more than 50 processes. Although TSMC  
missed the target to replace 100% of NMP compared to  
the base year of 2016, the Company is still working  
towards goals of company-wide 95% reduction of NMP in  
2021 and 100% NMP replacement and avoid using PFASs  
of more than four carbons in all processes by 2030.  
time defense system of semiconductor manufacturing  
services, the application of innovative approaches, and  
the establishment of quality culture among the suppliers,  
TSMC did not encounter any significant re-calls in  
2020. The Company also continued to pass third-party  
certifications, meeting requirements of IATF 16949: 2016 of  
the automotive industry and IECQ QC 080000: 2017 by the  
International Electro-Technical Commission (IEC).  
For the advanced logic process, the Quality and Reliability  
Organization completed product quality and reliability  
qualifications of EUV lithography 5nm Fin Field Effect  
Transistor (FinFET), helping the world's first 5nm product  
into mass production in 2020. For the specialty process,  
TSMC completed reliability qualification for 22nm Ultra- 
low Leakage (ULL) embedded MRAM IP. Furthermore,  
for high-performance mobile computing and high- 
performance ULL process platforms, TSMC successfully  
passed the consumer-grade qualification and automotive  
grade-1 qualification for 28nm Embedded Flash. For  
advanced packaging, TSMC integrated the front-end wafer  
process and back-end chip packaging to provide advanced  
packaging solutions. This is the system integration  
for wafer-grade processes. Also, TSMC completed  
qualifications for the fifth-generation integrated Fan-Out  
packaging (InFO), whose linewidth is more sophisticated,  
and heterogeneously integrated larger-size CoWoS   
packaging technology and went into mass production  
to meet the demands for mobile devices and high- 
performance computing products.   
Thanks to the qualification of technologies, the real- 
Customer Service 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Precise Response 
Provide excellent customer service  through close collaboration with  customers and customer meetings   surveys on a regular basis to  understand and respond to their  requirements and feedback 
Virtual Fab  
Provide comprehensive information  in a timely manner to ensure the  success of customer's products   strengthen processes and systems  to protect customer product  information to the highest standard 
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
   Maintain customer satisfaction rating of  over 90% 
   Reduce cases of problematic engineering  quality or poor reliability to 60% of the level in  2019 for every million 12-inch wafers shipped  
   In line with TSMC's technology roadmap,  TSMC provides customers with over 1,200  types of available wafer manufacturing and  process technology, and over 170 types of  advanced packaging technology 
   Pass customer product information audit with  no major flaws 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   In line with TSMC's technology roadmap,  TSMC provides customers with over 860 types  of available wafer manufacturing and process  technology, and over 85 types of advanced  packaging technology 
   Pass customer product information audit with no  major flaws 
   Maintain customer satisfaction rating   
   Reduce cases of problematic engineering  quality or poor reliability to 70%  of the level in  2019 for every million 12-inch wafers shipped 
of over 90%  
   In line with TSMC's technology roadmap, TSMC  provides customers with over 833 types of available  wafer manufacturing and process technology, and  over 77 types of advanced packaging technology  
   Customer satisfaction rating of 92.8%  seven  consecutive years with   90% satisfaction  
   Reduce cases of problematic engineering quality or  poor reliability to 70% of the level in 2019 for every  million 12-inch wafers shipped  
   Pass customer product information audit with no  major flaws        
Target: 800 types of technology and 60 types of advanced  packaging technology 
Target:   90% 
Target: 95% of the level in 2019  
Target: No major flaws 
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
Customer trust is TSMC's core value. We believe that  
TSMC's competitiveness hinges on how competitive our  
customers are and that our customers' success is also our  
success. In order to provide customers with the highest  
level of service, TSMC has established a devoted customer  
service team, which is a dedicated coordination window  
to provide timely assistance and creates the best customer  
experience, from design support, mask making, and wafer  
manufacturing to backend services. TSMC also commits  
to protecting proprietary customer information to the  
highest standard to develop a long-term partnership and  
become a long-term and trusted partner that is critical to  
their success. 
Customer Service Strategy Pyramid 
Comprehensive     Timely information via  TSMC-Online TM 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Precise Response Virtual Fab 
Customer Trust 
Customer Confidential Information Protection 
Precise Response 
Customer feedback and opinions are important  
foundations for advancing customer relationships. TSMC  
learns about customer needs through irregular meetings,  
quarterly reviews, and annual satisfaction surveys. The  
channels are a way for customers to provide feedback  
on the performance of business behavior, relationship,  
technology, quality, yield, design support, manufacturing,  
customer service, and further expectations for the future.  
TSMC regularly reviews and analyzes customer feedback  
to propose optimal solutions. By having a comprehensive  
response process to customer needs, TSMC continues to  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Close Collaboration with Customer 
Annual Customer Satisfaction 
0 2016 2017 2018 2020 2019 
advance customer relations. In 2020, under the COVID-19  
pandemic, TSMC held a total of 1,205 online meetings with  
163 customers, 115 quarterly reviews with 31 customers,  
and annual satisfaction surveys with nearly 200 customers.  
Responding to customer expectations for convenient  
access to technical files and higher response efficiency to  
business needs, TSMC established a smart technical file  
navigation system and further reviewed and simplified  
project review, quotation, and contract signing processes  
to increase response speed to customer's business needs.  
The annual customer satisfaction rating in 2020 was  
Note: Figures for customer satisfaction ratings in 2020 are from TSMC fabs in Taiwan and subsidiaries. 
Annual Customer Satisfaction Quarterly Business Review (QBR) Customer Service Satisfaction 
92.8%  maintaining high ratings of above 90% for seven  
consecutive years. Customers responded positively to  
the new, streamlined business process in the customer  
satisfaction survey. Satisfaction ratings from customer  
service items evaluated quarterly also reached over  
80%. In response to a rapidly changing market, TSMC is  
working closely with customers to continuously satisfy  
their needs with advanced technology, manufacturing  
excellence, and high-quality services.  
Various Communication Channels for Customers 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Customer Needs 
163 Customers 1,205 Irregular  Meetings in 2020 
Both TSMC customer service teams and customers Neutral third-party consulting  firms through interviews or  online questionnaires 
Irregular  Meeting 
Improvement Plans 
Technology, Quality,  Yield Rate, Design,  Manufacturing, and Customer Service 
Customer Needs 
Progress Review 
31 Customers 115 Quarterly  Reviews  in 2020 
Quarterly  Review 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Annual Customer  Satisfaction Survey 
Behavior, Impression and  Execution 
Almost 200  Customers  in 2020 
Virtual Fab 
Real-time interaction and information exchange as well  
as comprehensive protection for proprietary customer  
information are critical for TSMC to build customer trust.  
For real-time interaction and information, customers  
have a 24-7 access to important information on design,  
engineering, and logistics through TSMC-Online TM. It also  
   iTapeout 
   CyberShuttle TM 
   Engineering Data 
   Design Portal 
   Reference Flow 
   Technical Document 
allows customers to create customized reports according  
to their management requirements to increase wafer  
management efficiency. 
 400,000 Times Customer Use 
12,000 Technical Files 
TSMC-Online TM 
with comprehensive, accurate, and up-to-date information  
during the design stage to help customers quickly  
complete their product design  for engineering integration,  
TSMC offers information on wafers, yields, electrical  
analysis, quality, and reliability to help customers improve  
product performance  and for logistics, TSMC proactively  
delivers related information from order placement to  
delivery to ensure that customers can have real-time  
For design integration, TSMC-Online TM offers customers  
   Real-time WIP 
   Order Management 
   Integrated Report 
 100,000 Downloads  
450 Process Design Kits 
knowledge of order status. To serve as a customer's  
"virtual fab", through TSMC-Online TM, customers can  
manage comprehensive product manufacturing  
information on a real-time basis. TSMC offers transparent  
and comprehensive services for wafer fabrication to  
ensure that our customers achieve product success. 
With the continuous increase in the types of advanced  
technologies, the design complexity is also constantly  
increasing. In 2020, TSMC collaborated with OIP alliance  
partners and cloud service providers to offer unlimited  
and comprehensive information security protection to  
customers. We also used cloud services to create a highly  
accessible design environment to help customers  
accelerate design to market and win business  
opportunities. 
In 2020, in line with the technology roadmap, we  
provided customers with more than 830 types of wafer  
technologies and more than 70 types of advanced  
packaging technologies. For protecting proprietary  
customer information,, TSMC commits to ensuring the  
interest of all customers and to designing protection  
mechanisms that can satisfy customer needs. To help  
customers accelerate product certification, TSMC  
obtained ISO 15408 IT security certification for Fab 12B,  
Fab 15B, and Fab 14A in 2020, achieving the highest  
security standard for product safety and proprietary  
customer information protection, and is now ready to  
receive and fulfill orders for high-security products. 
Under the pandemic, customers are not able to  
take international business trips. As a result, TSMC  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Note: 2020 index includes Taiwan Facilities and Subsidiaries. 
is complying with security standards for proprietary  
information to build remote sharing platforms for  
different information security levels. TSMC has  
successfully completed 15 remote audits to support  
customer's product launching on schedule and win  
customer trust. 
TSMC strongly believes that continuous innovation,  
highest-quality products and services are the key  
factors to maintain customer satisfaction. As a trusted  
technology and capacity provider in the global logic IC  
industry, TSMC will continue to be service-oriented and  
bring maximum benefits to our customers so that we  
become a long-term important partner that customers  
can trust and rely on for success. 
Technology Types for Customers 
Types of Wafer  Manufacturing Technology Types of Advanced  Packaging Technology 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
22 31 46 77 60 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
navigation system to help customers access  
required technical files for new product designs  
faster. To ensure the system is robust at the time of  
launching, the Customer Service Organization and  
Business Development Organization have referred  
to user feedbacks and access how technical files  
Smart Technical File Navigation System 
With an increasing number of technology types,  
TSMC-Online TM offers more than 12,000 technical  
files as of 2020. In the existing complex binary  
indexed tree, customers often get lost or make  
mistakes along the pathway. As the technology  
grows more complex and file sizes increase, it takes  
a longer time to download documents. 
In 2020, TSMC's Customer Service Organization,  
Business Development Organization, and Corporate  
IT Organization worked together to revamp TSMC- 
Online TM data structure and launch a smart file  
Case Study 
Before   Scattered Category Tree 
After   Easier   Faster with Matrix Table  Reduce 70% 
open for cloud download services under the  
premise of information security. 
are used and categorized from the customer's  
perspective. We use a 2D matrix table to replace the  
existing  binary indexed tree and strengthen filter  
and search functions. With support from the  
Corporate IT Organization, TSMC-Online TM is also  
With the new TSMC-Online TM data structure and smart  
effectively reduce the time that customers search for  
a file map that helps them find any files easily  at the  
same time, cloud services will also significantly  
file navigation system is launched in stages beginning  
technical files by 70% and increase the download  
speed by three to ten times. 
file navigation system, customers will be shown  
increase technical files download speed. The smart  
in March 2021. We predict that the system will  
of time required to  search for technical files  
Increase 3-10 
in download speed 
TSMC Delivers Unrivalled Manufacturing Flexibility 
2020 total managed capacity reached  over 12.4M 12-inch wafer equivalents  12.4M  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
1,155 1,344 294 1,156 1,805 1,264 407 1,010 2,138 1,194 52 8 
72 151 51 158 160 148 37 129 229 134 13 4 
27 68 25 64 46 47 23 67 75 24 5 2 
TSMC (Europe) TSMC (Nanjing) 
Fab 3 Fab 5 Fab 6 Fab 8 TSMC (China) WaferTech HQ and Fab 12 Fab 14 Fab 15 TSMC (Nanjing) Fab 18 
TSMC (China) 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
TSMC (Korea) WaferTech 
Technologies 281 272 
TSMC (Japan) 
HQ and Fab 12 Fab 2 3 5 8 Fab 15 Fab 6 Fab 14 Fab 18 
Customers 510 499 
TSMC (North America) 
Products 11,617 10,761 
A Responsible Purchaser 
As the world's largest dedicated IC foundry, we have made it our mission to purchase  responsibly. We have the power to make a difference and we are doing so by asking our  suppliers to make advancements in the following aspects: technology, quality, delivery,  environmental protection, human rights, safety, and health. Our goal is to build a green  and sustainable semiconductor supply chain.   
All tier 1 suppliers have signed  the TSMC Supplier Code of  Conduct  
Supplier Sustainability Management P.73 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
% % Million GWh   
All minerals are conflict-free 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Cumulative energy  conserved by suppliers  through TSMC support  
Supplier Sustainability  Management 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
All suppliers are required to adhere to  the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct,  taking actions to improve labor rights,  safety and health, environmental  protection, business ethics, and  the efficiency of their management  systems, and reduce disruption risk  for business operations 
Manage Sustainability Risk  
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
Note 1: Tier 1 suppliers: Suppliers trading directly with TSMC with more than three orders per year, with order amount exceeding NT 5 million.  In 2020, 1,144 suppliers met the criteria. Since the suppliers signing every year were relatively consistent, the frequency was adjusted  from every year to every three years. 
Note 2: Critical suppliers: Suppliers accounting for the top 85% of purchasing expenses or of a single-source purchase, with indicators such as  procurement amount, product supply criticality, and business relation with TSMC. 
    TSMC continues to monitor supplier employees  working at TSMC factory sites 
Safeguard Labor Rights 
    Tier 1 suppliers' completion rate for signing  the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct every  three years: 100%  
    Tier 1 suppliers' completion rate of the  Sustainability Management Self-Assessment  Questionnaire: 100%  
    Critical suppliers' completion rate for receiving  third-party audits (by RBA-certified auditing  institutions) every three years: 100% 
    Supplier due diligence on sourcing conflict- free minerals: 100% of the minerals used are  sourced responsibly 
    TSMC audits a cumulative total over 30 suppliers  (at least three suppliers per year) for due  diligence on sourcing conflict-free minerals NEW 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
    Complete audits on at least three suppliers for  due diligence on sourcing conflict-free minerals NEW 
    Tier 1 suppliers completed the Sustainability  Management Self-Assessment Questionnaire  at a completion rate of 100% 
    Continue to require critical suppliers to receive  third-party audits by RBA-certified auditing  institutions. The target is for 60 critical  suppliers to complete third-party audits 
    TSMC continues to monitor supplier  employees working at TSMC factory sites 
    Supplier due diligence on sourcing conflict- free minerals: 100% of minerals used are  conflict free 
Note 3: Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, TSMC lowered the target number of suppliers for on-site audits in  2020 to minimize contagion risk. 
    Monthly alert automatically generated on the  attendance of supplier employees working at  TSMC factory sites 
    All Tier 1 suppliers completed the Sustainability  Management Self-Assessment Questionnaire for  a completion rate of 100%  
    100% sourcing conflict-free minerals  
    All Tier 1 suppliers signed the TSMC Supplier Code  of Conduct for a completion rate of 100%  
    A total of 24 critical suppliers completed third- party supplier audits by RBA-certified institutions  
Target: 100% 
Target: 100% 
Target: 60 critical suppliers 
Target: 100% 
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
( Continued from last page) 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Optimize Local Procurement  
To continuously increase local  sourcing, TSMC actively provides  consultation on improving core  capabilities, and sets reduction  targets for energy consumption, water  consumption, waste, and carbon  emissions to support the sustainable  development of the local supply chain 
All suppliers are required to adhere to  the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct,  taking actions to improve labor rights,  safety and health, environmental  protection, business ethics, and  the efficiency of their management  systems, and reduce disruption risk  for business operations 
Manage Sustainability Risk  
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
   Completion rate of Safety and Health  consultation for critical high-risk suppliers:  100%  
Note 4: TSMC raised the 2020 target from 125 to 145 as the multiple-source supply solution program achieved the 2030 Goal of 125 ahead of schedule. 
Note 5:  A total of 32 critical high-risk suppliers (formerly known as vendors with high-risk operations) were audited in 2019, of which 3 suppliers with safety and  health audit scores below 70 received consultation in 2020 and passed improvement requirements after evaluation. 
Improve the Sustainability of the Supply Chain 
   A cumulative total of 1,500 local suppliers  participate in the Environment, Safety, and Health  (ESH) training program (Base year: 2016) 
   A cumulative total of 145 local raw materials  suppliers receive consultation on process  advancement and quality improvement  (Base year: 2016) 
Strengthen Supply Chain Resilience 
   A cumulative total of 300 local raw materials  suppliers participate in the observation of  TSMC annual emergency response drill  (Base year: 2016) 
   Continue to diversify facilities and assess new  suppliers  develop 145 multi-source supply  solutions (Base year: 2018)  Note4   
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   A cumulative total of 680 suppliers participated  in the ESH training program 
   Ten local raw materials suppliers receive  consultation on process advancement and  quality improvement, with a cumulative total  of 55 suppliers 
   Hold the annual Responsible Supply Chain  Forum 
   Develop 105 multi-source supply solutions for  raw materials 
   A cumulative total of 130 suppliers participate  in the observation of TSMC annual emergency  response drill 
   Critical high-risk suppliers complete Safety and  Health consultation at a rate of 100% 
   Developed 70 multi-source supply solutions  
   21 local raw materials suppliers participated in the  observation of TSMC annual emergency response  drill, with a cumulative total of 111 suppliers  
   A cumulative total of 558 suppliers participated in  the ESH training program  
   Integrated TSMC's annual Supply Chain  Management Forum into Responsible Supply  Chain Forum 
   12 suppliers received consultation on process  advancement and quality improvement, with a  cumulative total of 45 suppliers  
   Critical high-risk suppliers completed Safety and  Health consultation at a rate of 100% 
Target: 64 
Target: 20 suppliers this year, 110 in total 
Target: 500 in total 
Target: 12 suppliers this year, 45 in total 
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
(Continued from last page) Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Optimize Local Procurement  
To continuously increase local  sourcing, TSMC actively provides  consultation on improving core  capabilities, and sets reduction  targets for energy consumption, water  consumption, waste, and carbon  emissions to support the sustainable  development of the local supply chain 
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
Note 6: Referring to TSMC's main operation region of Taiwan. 
Note 7: Definition for high electricity consumption suppliers: Energy consumption at a single site exceeding 5 million kWh per year. 
Note 8: Referring to raw materials suppliers in the top 80% of local waste production. Calculation formula: A (A B)(%)  A: waste reduced by the  factory in the underlying month (tons)  B: total waste produced by the factory in the underlying month (tons). 
   High electricity consumption suppliers  receive ISO 14064-1 Greenhouse Gas Emission  verification at a completion rate of 100% 
   Provide consultation on water reduction for  suppliers and reduce water consumption by a  cumulative total of 35 million tons     
Reduce Environmental Impact 
   Reduce waste production among major local  suppliers by 35% (Base year: 2014) Note 8 
   Increase Local Sourcing Note 6 
   Provide consultation on power reduction for  suppliers and reduce electricity consumption by  a cumulative total of 1.5 billion kWh     
 - 64% local sourcing for indirect raw materials  
 - 60% local sourcing for spare parts 
(Base year: 2020) 
(Base year: 2018) 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
 - 60.5% local sourcing for indirect raw materials  
 - 50% local sourcing for spare parts 
   Reduce supplier electricity consumption by a  cumulative total of 320 million kWh 
   Reduce waste production among major local  suppliers by 30.4% 
   High energy consumption suppliers receive ISO  14064-1 Greenhouse Gas Emission verification at a  completion rate of 50% 
   Reduce supplier water consumption by a  cumulative total of 4.5 million tons 
Note 9: For spare parts, the annual local sourcing target was missed because the proportion of advanced  packaging increased and quality requirements have become stricter, and because TSMC had to  increase inventory levels due to COVID-19. 
Note 10: For backend equipment, since the proportion of advanced packaging has increased and both  quality requirements and technical specifications have become stricter, TSMC has also increased the  procurement volume of domestic and foreign suppliers, and the demand for foreign suppliers is still  strong  requirements  therefore, TSMC removed the target beginning in 2021. 
   Reduce supplier electricity consumption by a  cumulative total of 210 million kWh  
   Waste production among major local suppliers  reduced by 29.4%  
   60% local sourcing for indirect raw materials  
   44.8% local sourcing for spare parts    
   31% local sourcing for backend equipment  
Target: 60% 
Target: 50% 
Target: 36% 
Target: 200 million kWh 
Target: 29.1% 
As a global semiconductor industry leader, TSMC  
aims to lead the improvement of the supply chain  
and is committed to an environmentally and socially  
responsible business model. TSMC focuses on two  
policies, Sustainability Risk Management and Local  
Procurement Optimization, as the core of our sustainable  
supply chain development, driving the supply chain  
towards a safe work environment, dignity of labor,  
ethical business conduct, and environmental protection.  
In 2020, TSMC worked closely with supplier partners  
through four guiding principles: Code Compliance,  
Risk Assessment, Audit Participation, and Continuous  
Improvement, TSMC encourages supplier partners to  
continue improving, commit to essential values, and take  
the initiative to promote sustainable practices to their  
upstream suppliers.  
Implementing the Four  Guiding Principles of  Responsible Supply Chain  Management 
To foster growth for supplier partners worldwide,  
TSMC continues to expand the scope of our supply  
chain management. TSMC upgraded the supply chain  
business portal, Supply Online, to a global responsible  
supply chain management platform, Supply Online 360,  
which integrates supplier communication and increases  
information accuracy and immediacy. The platform  
went online on December 22, 2020. On the practical  
level, the platform is built upon the structure of the four  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
guiding principles and based on the TSMC Supplier Code  
of Conduct. Through its new feature, the Sustainability  
Management Module, the Supply Online 360 platform  
enables digital follow-up for signature compliance with  
the Code of Conduct, completion of the Sustainability  
Rules of  Implementation 
Management  Measures 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Supply  Online  360 
Suppliers comply with the TSMC  Supplier Code of Conduct and  extend the scope of management  to their upstream suppliers. 
   Tier 1 suppliers are required  to sign the Supplier Code of  Conduct. 
   Critical Suppliers are required  to ask their upstream suppliers,  contractors, and service providers  to commit and adhere to the  TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct. 
   Added Supplier Sustainability  Standards. 
   Integrate TSMC supplier  standards and requirements,  and publish them on the  online platform NEW 
Code Compliance Risk Assessment Continuous Improvement Audit Participation 
Management Self-Assessment Questionnaire, and  
progress in audit improvement. Using online data,  
these new features can improve the efficiency of  
efforts in the physical world. At the same time, TSMC  
established the TSMC Supplier Sustainability Academy  
Suppliers evaluate their compliance  via Sustainability Self-Assessment  Questionnaire (SAQ) or are evaluated  by the TSMC Team. 
   Determining the level of Code compliance  of Tier 1 suppliers via Sustainability Self- Assessment Questionnaire to assess risks. 
   The TSMC Supplier Healthiness Assessment  Rectification Program (S.H.A.R.P.) team identifies  risks with indicators such as procurement  amount, product supply criticality, and business  relation with TSMC. 
   Monitor suppliers with serious violations,  tracking their continuous improvement to  reduce risks. 
   Suppliers are required to assess and mitigate  climate change risks. 
   Establish a digital management tool  for supplier sustainability indicators,  the Sustainability Management Module  included Self-Assessment Questionnaire  function NEW 
Critical suppliers receive third-party  audits by RBA-certified institutions  or on-site audits by the TSMC  S.H.A.R.P. Team. 
   Critical suppliers are required  to receive third-party audits   TSMC monitors audit results  and requires improvement. 
   Establish Supply Chain  Sustainability Program, which  conducts on-site audits with  the S.H.A.R.P. methodology. 
   Set up an auditing function  for the Sustainability  Management Module  NEW 
and the Supply Chain Worker Grievance Channel on the  
Supply Online 360 platform, taking tangible actions to  
build a responsible supply chain and working closely  
with suppliers to ensure the sustainability of the  
semiconductor supply chain.  
   TSMC provides consultation or  assistance and arranges for follow- up inspections for improvement. 
   TSMC may reduce the trade  volume or terminate trade with  suppliers that fail to meet the  requirements. 
   Provide business operations  and sustainability training  programs free of charge, and  require suppliers to complete the  programs. 
   Establish TSMC Supplier  Sustainability Academy  
   Establish Supply Chain Worker  Grievance Channel  
Suppliers implement  improvement measures  according to the audit results and  receive relevant consultation. 
Code Compliance 
As a member of the Responsible Business Alliance, RBA,  
TSMC sets its Supplier Code of Conduct according to  
RBA's Code of Conduct. It requires suppliers to comply  
with the Code of Conduct while encouraging them to  
ask their upstream suppliers, contractors, and service  
providers to approve and adopt the same code in  
practices and management. New suppliers must sign  
the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct to be eligible for  
partnership. The new suppliers must undergo regular  
risk assessments and audits in future partnerships  
and continue to improve according to audit results.  
Three-phase Risk Assessment Signing of the Supplier Code of Conduct Self-Assessment Questionnaire  Results 
Number of Tier 1 Suppliers Percentage Signing the Supplier Code of Conduct 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Year 2017 2019 2018 2020 Year 2017 2019 2018 2020 
1,229 1,226 
100% 100% 100% 
In 2020, TSMC further established the TSMC Supplier  
Sustainability Standard, which specifies five major  
categories for implementation, focuses on sustainable  
conduct, and helps suppliers to take tangible actions for  
sustainability.  
Risk Assessment and Audit  Participation 
To deepen its understanding of the supply chain's  
development and identify potential risks, TSMC adopted  
a three-phase risk assessment process in 2020. By  
classifying, categorizing, and identifying areas for  
Number of Tier 1 Suppliers Percentage Completing the Self-Assessment Questionnaire 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
1,229 1,226 
100% 100% 100% 
improvement for suppliers, TSMC provides training  
resources on the Supply Online 360 platform and  
conducts on-site audits and consultations for critical  
high-risk suppliers, ensuring effective risk control.  
After the preliminary assessment for all suppliers, TSMC  
requires Tier 1 Suppliers to conduct the SAQ to identify  
sustainability risks. In 2020, Tier 1 Suppliers in Taiwan,  
where TSMC is headquartered, completed 1,144 SAQs,  
in which the five major categories of the TSMC Supplier  
Code of Conduct were covered. The assessment results  
show that, for the Labor category, suppliers often have  
For the preliminary assessment, examine the category and source of origin  of all supply products based on suppliers' business relations with TSMC to  analyze potential risks. 
Based on SAQ results and trading amount, TSMC categorizes Tier 1 suppliers  into critical non-critical and different risk levels. TSMC then implements  supplier management according to the Supplier Risk Matrix and supplier  classification. 
For critical high-risk suppliers in the Supplier Risk Matrix, whose management  is more urgent, TSMC conducts on-site audits to identify the actual risk status  and provides consultation to reduce risks for the suppliers. 
no specified protocols to monitor the work environment  
of their supply chain. For Safety and Health, suppliers  
lack identification and risk planning for environmental  
protection laws, operations in confined space, and  
operations involving hazardous materials. For the Code  
of Business Ethics, SAQ results show that 21% of the  
suppliers do not have a business ethics management  
system. In addition, TSMC requires critical suppliers  
to follow up the sustainability management of their  
upstream supply chains. Through Supply Online 360, it's  
expected to conduct integrated management from Tier 1  
suppliers in 2021. 
2018 0 2020 2019 2021 Year 
At the same time, TSMC categorizes critical suppliers according  
to indicators such as procurement amount, supplier product  
criticality, and business relation with TSMC and determines risk  
levels referring to SAQ results and priority violation records.  
Using the two dimensions of criticality and risk levels, TSMC  
establishes a Supplier Risk Matrix that classifies suppliers  
annually. This classification is then used in determining specific  
sustainability management actions to continuously enhance  
supplier understanding of the five major categories defined  
by the RBA. TSMC aims to improve supplier capabilities and  
effectively track sustainability risks in the supply chain.  
After identifying risks using the Supplier Risk Matrix,  
TSMC implements management measures according to  
Number of Suppliers Completing   Third-party Audits 
Number of Suppliers Attending Each Year Cumulative Totalof Suppliers Audited  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Supplier Risk Matrix, Classification and Management Measures 
supplier classifications. In 2020, the TSMC S.H.A.R.P. Team  
collaborated with third-party institutions certified by the  
RBA and completed 24 on-site audits for critical high-risk  
suppliers, assessed actual risks, and improve supplier  
performance on sustainability. 
TSMC aims to work closely with suppliers in maintaining  
consistent material supply and services, and ensure  
mutual benefit by guiding suppliers to establish a safe work  
environment that safeguards workers' health and limits  
environmental impact. TSMC launched the TSMC Supplier  
Sustainability Academy education platform on Supply  
Online 360, and by compiling training courses from TSMC  
operational and manufacturing practices,  TSMC provides 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Critical  High-risk Suppliers 
Critical  Low-risk Suppliers 
Risk Level: Medium 
Risk Level: High 
Critical Non-critical 
Non-critical  Low-risk Suppliers 
Non-critical  High-risk Supplier 
Risk Level: Medium 
Risk Level: Low 
Critical High-risk Suppliers Assessment Process 
Tier 1 Suppliers Critical High-risk Supplier On-site Audit 
Signing the TSMC Supplier  Code of Conduct 
Completion of the TSMC  Supplier Code of Conduct  Program of the Supplier  Sustainability Academy 
Risk Assessment via SAQ 
 On-site Audit 
High-risk Suppliers  Critical Suppliers 
Critical  High-risk  Suppliers 
Critical  Low-risk  Suppliers 
Non-critical  High-risk  Supplier 
Non-critical  Low-risk  Suppliers 
2020 Critical High-risk Suppliers Audits 
Note1: Priority violations may present risks of production halt, loos of life, legal violations, or systematic failure. For example: lacking response mechanism for unexpected disruptions in production lines, environmental pollution, hiring child labor, or forced labor. Note 2: Major violations refer to significant differences between implementation and proper ESH procedures, such as daily operations not adhering to ESH procedures. Note 3: Minor violations refer to risks other than priority or major violations, such as incomplete training records or incomplete ESH procedures. 
Suppliers Audited 
Audit Methods 
Distribution of Audit Violations 
Supply Chain Risks 
Reliability of Quality 
Fire Safety System 
Safety and Health 
Environmental  Protection 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
TSMC S.H.A.R.P. Team and RBA-certified Third Party Institutions 
Factories of 24 Critical High-risk Suppliers 
24 On-site Audits 
Minor  violations 
Major  violations 
Priority violations 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Supply Chain Risks  
Reliability of Quality  
Fire Safety System  
Safety and Health  
Environmental  
Protection 
Supply Chain Risks  
Safety and Health  
Protection 
Reliability of Quality  
Fire Safety System  
Environmental  
 Not establishing an effective rainwater  management system Environmental  Protection 
Supply Chain Risks 
Reliability of Quality 
Major Violations Audited Key Achievements Categories 
 Require suppliers to establish a comprehensive management  procedure, share TSMC practices and procedures Safety and  Health 
1. Not establishing an effective fire safety  management system 2. Fire safety equipment not compliant with  relevant regulations 3. Fire safety equipment lacking maintenance  Fire Safety System 
 Require suppliers to establish business ethics rules   expected to complete in 2021 Ethics 
 Not fully adhering to work hour regulations  Require suppliers to comply with labor work hour  regulations fully Labor 
 Lacking policy or procedures for gifts, such  as the amount frequency limit between  supplier and clients, or employee education  on reporting conflict of interests 
 Lacking comprehensive personal protective  equipment and emergency response management 
1. Not establishing multiple sources or safety  stock for raw materials or finished goods 2. Lacking comprehensive water and electricity  backup plans in response to climate change 3. Lacking comprehensive human resources  plans in response to unexpected  developments (e.g., COVID-19)  
1. Lacking control over the quality of raw materials 2. Not implementing upstream supply chain risk  assessment or business continuity plan  not  conducting regular on-site and document audits  for upstream suppliers 3. Not planning or notifying TSMC in time when  making changes to the production process 
 Establish management measures for separating rainwater  and wastewater 
1.1. Required suppliers to assign personnel specifically for    fire safety management 1.2. Required suppliers to fully implement management of hot     work, flammable chemicals, and fire safety equipment,and     provide TSMC's relevant procedures for suppliers' reference 2. Required suppliers to improve fire safety equipment,  comply with regulations and provide relevant consultation 3. Shared checklist of fire equipment maintenance to  suppliers and held fire protection operation training 
1. Establish and verify multiple sources for raw materials  and finished goods, and have safety stock in place 2. Establish water and electricity backup plans and compile  the plans in advance when building new production lines 3. Establish comprehensive business continuity plans in  response to COVID-19 
1. Control and manage the quality of raw materials to ensure  that materials comply with specifications and quality is  consistent 2. Assess risks of the upstream supply chain, conduct on-site  audits, and encourage compliance with TSMC standards 3. Enhance internal training on protocols relevant to  production process changes  
learning resources on labor rights, environmental protection,  
workplace safety and health free of charge.  Such knowledge  
on corporate management improves supplier capabilities  
and even extends to upstream suppliers, enhancing the  
sustainability of the overall supply chain.  
TSMC values people above all else, and has further  
established a public reporting channel for supplier employees  
on Supply Online 360. This offers protection for supplier  
employees, extends and deepens TSMC's management, and  
builds a more inclusive workplace for the supply chain. 
Reporting Procedure Four Action Plans 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Supplier Employees 
   Supply Chain Worker  Grievance Channel  
TSMC Grievance  Handling Committee 
   Investigation and supervision 
   Penalty  
   Report to the  top supervisor  of supply chain management  for penalty 
    Examine problems 
    Make improvements 
Continue to Advance Supply Chain Sustainability 
As the global semiconductor industry continues  
to grow, TSMC considers effective supply chain  
management to be an important mission. TSMC cares  
about the sustainability of the environment, society,  
and the economy, aspiring to improve supply chain  
management, and effect  behavioral change. TSMC  
makes use of two policies to do so: 1: "Sustainability Risk  
Management", which requires all suppliers to adhere  
to the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct , take actions to  
improve labor rights, safety and health, environmental  
protection, business ethics, and the efficiency of  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Strengthen  Supply Chain  Resilience 
Safeguard  Labor Rights 
their management systems, and reduce disruption  
risk for business operations. 2: "Local Procurement  
Optimization" to continuously increase local sourcing,  
actively provide consultation on improving core  
capabilities, and set reduction targets for energy  
consumption, water consumption, waste, and carbon  
emissions to support the sustainable development  
of the local supply chain. As a leading semiconductor  
company, TSMC aims to use its influence in the industry  
with these two policies as well as the four Action Plans  
to promote progress towards sustainability. 
Sustainability  Risk Management 
Two  Policies 
Local  Procurement  Optimization 
  Chih Hung Feng, Assistant Vice President of Xinying Plant,  TAIWAN PULP   PAPER CORPORATION 
"Thanks to the auditing and coaching from  TSMC's team of experts, TPPC's concept of  disaster prevention has been extended to risk  management, system maintenance, and loss  prevention designs that enabled our disaster  prevention standards to reach the international  level for semiconductor fabs in a short period of  time and strengthened the company's overall  disaster prevention capability and the safety  awareness of employees."  
Improve the  Sustainability of  the Supply Chain 
Reduce  Environmental  Impact 
Environment 
Sustainability Risk Management 
TSMC implements two of the action plans, Safeguard Labor Rights and Strengthen Supply Chain Resilience, through audits and consultations that urge suppliers to continuously improve, building a work environment that ensures the dignity of  
workers and business ethics. In 2020, TSMC initiated the S.H.A.R.P. program, in which TSMC and suppliers work closely and effectively. Such comprehensive, collaborative efforts continue to reduce supply chain risks. 
Note 1: In 2020, supplier employees at TSMC factory sites occasionally still worked for seven consecutive days. TSMC has emphasized the importance of work hour management to suppliers. Note 2: Added violation penalties to the order form in 2018, and the practice continued in 2020. 
Strengthen  Supply Chain  Resilience 
Safeguard  Labor Rights 
Supplier Problems and Challenges  Action Plans  TSMC Consultation Measures  Number of Suppliers  2020 Performance  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Insufficient transparency of  supplier compliance with the  TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct 
    Quarterly review on whether supplier employees work at TSMC sites for  seven consecutive days Records of supplier employees working at  TSMC sites for seven consecutive days Note1 
Whether suppliers comply with  regulations on sourcing responsible  minerals and raw materials 
Insufficient workplace safety rules  for contractors and subcontractors  at TSMC factory sites 
The current supply chain lacks emergency  response capabilities, which may lead to  disruption risk in supply 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
    Require Tier 1 suppliers to sign the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct  
    Require suppliers to complete third-party audits by RBA-certified  auditing institutions 
    Set up Supply Chain Worker Grievance Channel on Supply Online 360 
    Continue due diligence to ensure sourcing of 100% conflict-free  minerals 
    Strengthen workplace safety management for contractors, especially  on-site operational subcontractors and downstream subcontractors,  and specify penalties and fines for workplace safety violations  
    Strengthen workplace safety management for contractors, including  workplace safety management in the comprehensive supplier evaluation 
    Continue to develop multi-source supply solutions 
    Invite suppliers to observe TSMC annual  emergency response drills 
    Initiate the S.H.A.R.P. program 
    Tier 1 suppliers signed the statement at the  completion rate of 100%. 
    24 Critical high-risk suppliers completed audits by  third-party RBA-certified institutions. 
    No complaints reported during the underlying year. 
    Upgrade management tools, enabling automatic  monthly reports that alert changes in supply and  ask suppliers to improve. 
    Completed 100% of due diligence on conflict-free  minerals sourcing for the supply chain. 
    Include violation penalty terms in orders. Suppliers  taking the orders implicitly agree to violation penalties.  In 2020, 1 supplier received a penalty for violations. Note2 
    United Integrated Services and Taiwan Puritic Corp  received TSMC Outstanding Supplier Awards. 
    Develop 70 multi-source supply solutions. 
    21 suppliers participated this year, with a cumulative  total of 111 suppliers. 
    Completed 24 S.H.A.R.P. audits. 
Sourcing Responsible Minerals  
TSMC supports sourcing conflict-free raw materials as a  
practice of humanitarianism and compliance with social  
ethics. Therefore, TSMC has adopted a series of compliance  
measures based on industry best practices, including the  
due diligence framework by the Organization for Economic  
Cooperation and Development (OECD), the Model Supply  
Chain Policy for a Responsible Global Supply Chain of  
Minerals from Conflict-affected and High-risk Areas. TSMC  
is also a firm supporter of the Responsible Business Alliance  
Conflict-free Minerals Management Process 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Reasonable Country of  Origin Inquiry Suppliers' Report 
TSMC Statement on  Responsible Sourcing  of Minerals TS   
Public Disclosure 
Due Diligence 
Note: Data stated herein include Tier 1 Suppliers of TSMC facilities in  Taiwan, WaferTech, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra. 
(RBA) and Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) , requiring  
suppliers to source conflict-free raw materials according to  
the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP). TSMC  
requires suppliers to comply with our responsible minerals  
sourcing policy and sign a statement of conflict- free minerals  
for products containing tantalum, tin, gold, and tungsten.  
Since 2018, TSMC has also disclosed to customers the source  
smelters for cobalt used in TSMC products. By 2021, TSMC  
plans to audit at least three suppliers that use tantalum, tin,  
gold, and tungsten to strengthen disclosure from suppliers. 
Conflict-free Minerals Due Diligence 
Number of Conflict-free Smelters Number of Suppliers 
Percentage Using Conflict-free Minerals 
2017 2016 2019 2018 2020 Year 
100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
S.H.A.R.P. 
For the latest TSMC disclosure documents, please visit the TSMC  
website or the website of the US Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Supplier Healthiness Assessment  Rectification Program (S.H.A.R.P.) 
To enhance supply chain resilience and ensure  
business continuity, TSMC started the Supply Chain  
Sustainability Program in 2020, assembling an auditing  
team with in-house experts and third-party RBA- 
TSMC S.H.A.R.P. Team External Third-Party Institutions 
NEW Supply Chain Risks 
Quality and Reliability 
Fire Protection  System 
Environmental Protection  Safety and Health 
Labor Ethics 
   Simulate multiple-incident scenarios and solutions  to minimize damage in advance 
   Rigorous requirements on Quality and Reliability  to avoid deviations 
   Establish a comprehensive Fire Protection System  to minimize the risks of damaging production lines  and neighboring communities 
   Implement Occupational Safety and Health to protect  operating personnel    Require the supply chain to reduce energy consumption  and carbon emission 
   Require the supply chain to safeguard labor rights and  ethics rules to create a positive work environment that  retains talent 
certified institutions, named the Supplier Healthiness  
Assessment Rectification Program (S.H.A.R.P.). The  
program audits five major categories, including Supply  
Chain Risk, Quality and Reliability, Environmental  
Protection, Safety and Health, Fire Safety System,  
and Labor Ethics. Through on-site audits, face-to-face  
communication, and other methods, TSMC continues  
to develop benchmark behaviors in the five major  
categories and improve the supply chain.  
Optimize Local Procurement      Two of the action plans, "Improve the Sustainability of the Supply Chain" and "Continue to Reduce Environmental Impact", are tangible actions TSMC has taken to optimize local procurement. TSMC offers consultation for suppliers to expand production  
capacity, advance production processes, and improve quality. At the same time, TSMC requires suppliers to guarantee environmental safety and health in the workplace, reduce environmental impact and its external cost, and mitigate the effects of  
climate change and resource depletion. TSMC conducts Supplier Environmental Profit and Loss (EP L) assessments to quantify environmental impact, guiding suppliers to set up targets of environmental protection to improve the local supply chain.   
Improve the  Sustainability of  the Supply Chain 
Continue  to Reduce  Environmental  Impact  
Supplier Problems and Challenges  Action Plans  TSMC Consultation Measures  Number of Suppliers  2020 Performance  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Production capacity, production  process, and quality management  require improvement  
Insufficient implementation of  Environmental Protection, Safety  and Health  
Address environmental impact  and resource depletion caused by  localized manufacturing  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Provide consultation for suppliers to expand  production capacity, improve advanced  measurement technology, and enhance  manufacturing quality  
   Hold the annual Responsible Supply Chain Forum  
   Hold forums to share experiences of real  practices on Environment, Safety and Health   
   Fortify management of supplier Environmental Safety  and Health, and include the performance as one of the  indicators in the comprehensive supplier evaluation  
   Promote local sourcing to reduce transportation cost,  set sourcing targets for indirect raw materials, spare  parts, and backend equipment  
   Require local suppliers with high power consumption  to reduce electricity usage  
   Require top ten waste-producing suppliers to reduce  waste and report on the progress made each year   
   Conduct annual Supplier Environmental Profit and  Loss (EP L) assessment  
   Encourage raw materials suppliers to participate in the  assessment  expected to complete in 2021  
   Completed 89 items of quality improvement in materials  for advanced processes  32 suppliers completed capacity  expansion according to the mass production needs for 5 nm  and 3 nm processes  
   TSMC ESG Committee Chairperson and Senior Vice President,  Lora Ho, shared TSMC's commitment to sustainability, while  92% of the suppliers attended expressed interest in sustainable  development strategies and 89% expressed interest in  risk control  
   Explain TSMC Supplier Sustainability Standard, require  suppliers to establish management systems for Environment,  Safety and Health and fire protection, and urge senior  management of the suppliers to enhance supervision. 
   Present Excellent Supplier Award to Chang Chun Petrochemical  Company, setting an example for other suppliers 
   60% for indirect raw materials , 44.8% for spare parts , 34% for  backend equipment   
   Provide consultation on power reduction for suppliers and reduce  energy consumption by a total of 210 million kWh  
   Reduce waste production of supplier business units by 29.4%   
Enhance Supply Chain Environment,  Safety and Health and Loss  Prevention Capabilities 
To enhance environment, safety and health and  loss prevention capabilities, TSMC divides its supply  chain environment, safety and health training into  two aspects: experience-sharing and on-site audits.  In 2020, for experience sharing, TSMC illustrated the  content and implementation guidelines for the Supplier  Sustainability Standard and shared case studies on  common violations in sustainability audits, such as  failure to wear personal protective equipment properly,  deficiency of the management procedures of fire  protection system impairment  hot work operation, and  failure to turn on the valves of fire protection systems.  TSMC recommended measures for improvement and  shared tangible, actionable solutions to reduce energy  
Key Points in Promoting Supply Chain ESH and  Loss Prevention 
   Supplier Consultation (ESH  training Observation of  emergency response drills)  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
   Supplier Consultation  
   Supplier On-site Audit  
and water consumption in the experience sharing forum.  The forum elevated the soft power of suppliers, and a  total of 347 people from 147 suppliers attended. For on- site audits and consultation, in 2020 the TSMC S.H.A.R.P.  team visited supplier companies to examine production  lines, evaluate supplier fire protection software and  hardware, and offered suggestions for improvement.   
In 2020, TSMC continued to strengthen experience  sharing by inviting suppliers to the Facility services  Academy at Fab 15, offering effective training by detailing  the operation, maintenance, and testing procedures of  fire protection equipment on-site. In 2020, TSMC held  observations of emergency response drills in factories  for local raw materials suppliers for the fifth consecutive  year. A total of 21 suppliers observed the drills on-site,  with a cumulative total of 111 people attending.   
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Supplier Consultation  and Power Reduction  
   Description of the Fire Safety System  
   Case Sharing Common Failures  among Suppliers  
   Consultation on reducing energy  and water consumption  
   Continue to hold observation of  emergency response drill  
   New topic for consultation: RBA7.0  
   Practices Fire protection system operation training  
   On-site checking suppliers'  improvement status  
   Emergency response Table-top simulations  
   Introduce energy saving designs into new supplier  factories     Set targets for suppliers to reduce water consumption  
   Request high-electricity consumption suppliers to  acquire ISO14064-1 certification  
Key Points in Supply Chain ESH and Loss Prevention 
   Occupational injuries 
   Occupational illnesses 
   Chemicals management 
   Personal protective equipment 
   Contractor management 
   Machinery protection and maintenance 
   Emergency response 
    Natural disaster risks 
ESH and  Loss  Prevention 
ESH Experience-Sharing Training  Program-Number of Suppliers Attended 
0 2016 2018 2020 Year 2017 2019 
Cumulative Total Number of Suppliers Attending Each Year 
   Pollution prevention 
   Reduction of energy and water consumption 
   Hazardous substance management and control 
   Fire prevention 
   Fire protection  equipment maintenance 
   Earthquake protection 
Fire Protection 
Environment 
89 108 115 147 
Improve the Local Supply Chain  
TSMC's production is primarily located in Taiwan. Our  
procurement can be divided into six categories: equipment,  
spare parts, raw materials, facility services, IT, and goods.  
To build a more effective and competitive supply chain,  
TSMC actively seeks to elevate local suppliers' advanced  
manufacturing process capabilities and establish a  
comprehensive local semiconductor supply chain.   
Percentage of Local Sourcing in the US Percentage of Local Sourcing in China Number of Suppliers Attending  Observation of Emergency Response Drills 
Year 2017 2019 2030 2018 2020 2021 Year 2017 2019 2030 2018 2020 2021 Year 2017 2019 2030 2018 2020 2021 Year 0 
Cumulative Total Number of Suppliers Attending Each Year 
2016 2018 2020 2017 2019 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Percentage of Local Sourcing in Taiwan 
Besides promoting local sourcing in Taiwan, TSMC has  
also set up independent procurement organizations  
for TSMC subsidiaries, including TSMC (China), TSMC  
(Nanjing), and WaferTech. Such organizations are the  
extension of the TSMC global supply chain, which  
helps local suppliers to improve technological levels,  
quality consistency, and reduce costs as well as carbon  
emissions.   Proactively improve the technology  levels and quality of critical equipment,  spare parts, and raw materials suppliers  to increase local sourcing  
Indirect raw materials Spare parts  Raw materials backend equipment Indirect raw materials Spare parts  Equipment  Direct raw materials Indirect raw materials Spare parts  Direct raw materials 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
2020 Supply Chain Management Activities for Taiwan Facilities 
Improve Technology Levels  Set  Procurement Targets  Invite International Companies  Set Up Factories In Taiwan 
Increase or maintain local  sourcing percentage to meet  the long-term goals 
Invite foreign suppliers to  set up manufacturing, R D,  and training sites in Taiwan   
Consultation Achievements for Enhancing Advanced Process Capabilities of Local Suppliers  
Development of  Spare Parts for  Advanced Processes  
Improve Advanced  Measurement  Technology  
Build  Capacity  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
2020 Achievements  Consultation Targets  TSMC Consultation Measures Supplier Problems and Challenges  
Spare parts maintenance   
Photoresists 
Photoresists 
Spare parts coating   
Spare parts machining   
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   The percentage of imported high-level spare  parts for several advanced processes is  still too high, as local suppliers lack critical  process technology  
   Some advanced tools must be sent overseas  for repair and maintenance, which is time- consuming and affects production schedules  
   Capacity insufficient to meet advanced  process requirements 
   Measurement technology insufficient to meet  advanced process requirements  
   Assemble a team of experts to provide  consultation for local suppliers, offer  technological training, and assist in  certification  
   Regular exchange with suppliers on industry  developments and cutting-edge technologies  to ensure supplier R D directions are  consistent with industry demands  
   Production line expansion  
   Add analytical instruments  
   Introduce advanced instruments 
   Provide consultation to  develop 110 spare parts  for advanced processes 
   Capacity increase  
   Establish the Best-Known  Method (BKM) for improving  deficient quality  
   Zero rejects  
   Increase detection threshold  
   Capability for IC material analysis  
Continue to Reduce Environmental Impact  
Drawing on experience, TSMC requires and assists  
suppliers to continuously improve performance on  
sustainability. In 2020, suppliers reduced energy  
consumption by 210 million kWh. In 2021, TSMC  
will increase its efforts, requiring suppliers to set  
power reduction targets in each factory's annual  
Targets and Achievements of Suppliers' Efforts to Reduce Electricity and Water Consumption, Waste, and Carbon Emission 
Suppliers with high  electricity consumption Supplier with high waste  production per unit 
Tier 1 Suppliers Tier 1 Suppliers 
Electricity  Consumption  Reduction 
Waste  Reduction Carbon  Management 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
2017 2018 2021 2019 2020 2030 Year 
Year 2020 2022 2021 2030 
environmental protection targets to push towards  
the sustainability goal of reducing a cumulative total  
of 320 million kWh. For local suppliers that produce  
the most waste, in 2020, waste production per unit  
decreased by 29.4%, surpassing the annual target of  
26.2 28.5 29.4 30.4 
Cumulative total of energy consumption reduced (million kWh) Cumulative total of water consumption reduced  (10,000 tons) 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Reduction rate (%) 
In addition to energy consumption and waste reduction,  TSMC will expand its management scope to water and  carbon emission reduction in 2021, requiring suppliers  to implement measures to reduce water consumption,  set specific reduction targets, and regularly follow up  on the results. TSMC aims to reduce water consumption  by a cumulative total of 35 million tons by 2030. At the  
Water  Consumption  Reduction 
2020 2022 2021 2030 
Year 2020 2022 2021 2030 
same time, TSMC also requires High Energy Consumption  Suppliers to undergo greenhouse gas emission  certification and receive ISO 14064 -1 Organization  Quantification and Reporting of Green House Gases  certification. The goal is to achieve a 100% completion  rate by 2030. By working closely with suppliers, TSMC aims  to mitigate climate change risks.   
Percentage of ISO 14064 certification (%) 
A Practitioner of Green Power 
Green manufacturing is the cornerstone of sustainable management at TSMC. We believe  that corporate growth and environment protection should not be mutually exclusive   our goal is to become the global standard of eco-friendly corporations. To such ends, we  integrate green management into daily operations and strive to carry out climate change  and energy management, water management, waste management, and air pollution  control through introducing innovative green technologies.   
Received AWS Platinum  certifications with  the highest score in  semiconductor industry for  2 consecutive years 
Climate Change and Energy Management P.89 Water Management P.103 Waste Management P.112 Air Pollution Control P.122 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
To realize a circular  economy, TSMC built its first  Zero-Waste Manufacturing  Center  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
TSMC leads the global  semiconductor industry with  the largest LEED-certified  building area 
Climate Change and  Energy Management 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Strengthen Climate Resilience 
Establish climate change countermeasures  and preemptive precautions to lower risk  of climate disasters 
Drive Low-carbon Manufacturing 
Continue to use best available  technology to reduce emissions of  greenhouse gases (GHG) and become  an industry leader in low-carbon  manufacturing 
Use Renewable Energy Note4 
Continue to purchase renewable energy  and install solar-energy power systems  to achieve target of 100% renewable  energy use 
Increase Energy Efficiency 
Plan and implement new energy-saving  measures each year to increase energy  efficiency 
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
Note 1: As of 2020, GHG emissions include fluorinated GHG emissions  the indicator will be used to evaluate various practices in the future. Note 2: As of 2020, the unit for unit product indicators will be in "12-inch equivalent wafer". Note 3: Environmental externality refers to the potential impact of the environmental footprint derived from business activities on human well- being, and takes the environmental profit and loss as a comprehensive index. The internal EP L module was completed for the Total ESH  Management digital system in 2020 and 19 key suppliers were included into EP L evaluations to continue identifying ways to improve. Overseas  fabs were unable to complete product life cycle assessment because of the COVID-19 pandemic and the assessment will be completed in 2021 
    0 day of production interruption due to  climate disasters 
   Reduce GHG emissions per unit product  Note1 
   Reduce unit product environmental  externalities  Note3 by 30% (Base year: 2010  
   Starting from 3nm new fabs, renewable  energy accounts for more than 20% of energy  consumption and the purchasing of renewable  energy to increase annually to achieve 25%  renewable energy for fabs and 100% renewable  energy for non-fab facilities 
    Save 5,000 GWh cumulatively between 2016  
   Double energy efficiency after five years  of mass production for each process  technology Note5 
 metric ton of carbon dioxide equivalent  (MTCO2e) 12-inch equivalent wafer Note2 mask  layer by 40% Base year: 2010  
and 2030 through new energy-saving measures 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Reduce unit product environmental externalities  by 8% (NT 12-inch equivalent wafer mask layer) 
   Reduce GHG per unit of production (metric ton  of carbon dioxide equivalent (MTCO2e) 12-inch  equivalent wafer mask layer) by 20% 
    0 day of production interruption due to climate  disasters 
   Continue to purchase renewable energy and  achieve 9% of renewable energy in TSMC and  overseas sites use 100% renewable energy 
   Increase 5nm process technology energy  efficiency by 0.2 times in the second year of  mass production 
   Save 500 GWh and 2,200 GWh cumulatively    500 GWh energy saved, and cumulatively saved  
Note 4: Definition of Renewable Energy Use: Purchase renewable energy, Renewable Energy  Certificates, and carbon credits produced by renewable energy Note 5: Energy efficiency is the product equivalent per kWh of power (12-inch equivalent  wafer mask layer kWh) Note 6: Some 10nm production lines have been converted to 7nm production lines 
   Reduced GHG emissions per unit product (metric  ton of carbon dioxide equivalent (MTCO2e) 12-inch  equivalent wafer mask layer) by 23%   
    0 day of production interruption due  to climate   
   Reduced unit product environmental externalities by  
   Purchased 1,230 GWh of renewable energy,  Renewable Energy Certificates (REC), and  carbon credits, achieving 7.6% of TSMC's power  consumption  TSMC overseas sites used 100%  renewable energy  
   Energy efficiency of 10nm and 7nm process  technologies increased by 1.4 times in the fourth year  of mass production note6  
disasters                                           
Target: 7% of TSMC power consumption and 100% of power  consumption in overseas sites 
Target: 10nm process technology energy efficiency  increase by 0.8 times in fourth year of mass production 
Target: 0 days 
Target: 18% 
7.5% (NT 12-inch equivalent wafer mask layer)  
Target: 5% 
1,700 GWh  
Target: 400 GWh  1,600 GWh 
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
The year 2020 was an important milestone in TSMC's  fight against climate change. TSMC closely follows and  carries out a variety of climate action goals following the  Paris Agreement. The ESG Steering Committee, led by  Chairperson Dr. Mark Liu, evaluates TSMC climate change  guiding principles twice a year and ESG Committee  Chairperson Senior Vice President Lora Ho annually  reports to the Board of Directors on climate actions and  results of the year. In May 2020, TSMC signed the world's  largest corporate renewable power purchase agreement  (PPA)  in July 2020, TSMC was officially approved by  RE100 as the first semiconductor company to be a  member of this global initiative for renewable energy,  and TSMC declared a sustainability goal of using 100%  renewable energy by 2050, driving the development  of green energy industry, and realizing a future for  sustainable environments.  
As advanced processes continue to evolve, IC processes  have become increasingly complex and now require  higher electricity consumption. In 2020, TSMC purchased  renewable energy, invested in the development of green  tools, and worked diligently to carry out all 460 energy- saving measures and introduce new energy-saving tool  models to strive towards better energy efficiency in all  technology nodes of processes. Facing the potential risks  brought by extreme climates and global warming, TSMC  focuses on regulatory compliance, energy and carbon  emissions reduction, and carbon asset management.  TSMC is also using the Task Force on Climate-related  Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework proposed by the  Financial Stability Board (FSB) to identify climate risks  and opportunities. Based on the results, measures and  goal management were established to effectively track  response progress and outcomes, thereby lowering the  financial impact of climate risks on business operations.  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Note 1: Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) is jointly established by the Carbon Disclosure Project, We Mean Business Coalition, UN Global Compact and World Wildlife Fund. The initiative provides companies with a clearly-defined path to                  reduce emissions in line with the Paris Agreement goals. TSMC pledged to set a science-based target in 2017  however, due to lack of guidance on the semiconductor manufacturing sector, TSMC was not able to get our target developed,                  validated and published within the 24-month period recommended by SBTi.  Note 2: Renamed TSMC Corporate Social Responsibility Policy as ESG Policy since 2021. Note 3: Renamed CSR Executive Committee as ESG Steering Committee since 2021. 
Milestone of Responses to Climate Change 
Green  House Gas Regulatory Restriction 
Platform Initiatives Policies Systems Programs Milestones 
TSMC  Actions 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Year 
GHG Reduction    Management Act  (Taiwan) 
COP21 in Paris 
Issued ESG Policies Note 2 Issued Environmental  Protection Policies 
Trial Procedures of  Shanghai Municipality  on Carbon Emission  Administration (China) 
Clean Air Rule   (Washington State, USA) 
The Paris Agreement 
1. Established Carbon  Management  Platform 
2. Established  Energy-Saving and  Carbon Reduction  Committee 
Joined SBTi Note 1 
Established Renewable  Energy Program 
1. Established Carbon  Trading Systems for  China Fabs 
2. Established Internal  Pricing   Impact  Evaluation 
Launched Green  Machine Certification  Program 
Overseas Sites Started  Using 100% Renewable  Energy 
Disclosed the Financial  Impact Analysis of the  Risks and Opportunities  of Climate Change for  the First Time 
1. Registered with  Voluntary GHG  Emissions Reduction  Platform by the  Bureau of Industrial  Development 
2. Launched TSIA  Energy Conservation  Platform 
Issued Climate  Change Statement 
Renewable Energy Act  Amendment (Taiwan) Principles for  Offsetting Increased  GHG Emissions  from Development  (Taiwan) 
Established ESG Steering  Committee Led by  Chairperson Note3 
Established Carbon  Credit Development  Program 
Set 2030 SDGs 
Received Carbon Credits  through TM002 Published  by the Taiwan EPA 
Issued Green  Bonds 
Joined RE100 
Established Net  Zero Emission  Program 
1. Global Offices  Used 100%  Renewable  Energy 
2. Global Offices  Achieved Net  Zero GHG  Emission 
Climate Change Risk and Opportunity Matrix 
Strengthen Climate Resilience 
Resilience to climate disasters is an integral part  
of corporate operations in an environment with  
increasingly volatile climates. TSMC uses the RCP8.5  
global warming scenario issued by the UN to identify  
disaster factors introduced by extreme climates and  
established Climate Risk Adaptive Standards. In 2020,  
TSMC was able to successfully defend against potential  
impact from disasters and potential operating losses  
from climate change to achieve the target of zero  
production interruption.  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Short-term  Medium-term  Long-term  
Identify Climate Risk  
To uncover potential risks and opportunities, TSMC  
follows the TCFD framework to evaluate climate change  
risks and opportunities cross-functionally. In 2020,  
TSMC hosted a Climate Change Risk and Opportunity  
Workshop and invited related internal organizations  
to engage in group discussions on "policies and  
regulations", "market, technologies, and reputation",  
and "physical risks". Net zero emissions trend, EIA  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
requirements, uncertainty in new energy saving carbon  
emission reduction technologies, flood and drought  
impact to supply chain, and  insurance premium  
increasing for natural disaster, and other risk factors  
were new introduced into the financial impact analysis  
of climate change in 2020 as climate risks to account for  
internal and external environmental changes  enhancing  
corporate reputation was introduced as a new climate  
opportunity. In 2020, to cope with climate change,  
Participation in carbon trading renewable  energy market 
Rewards from public sector   collaborations  of carbon emission offset 
Construct green buildings 
Use of reclaimed water 
Develop services to deliver low-carbon  products and increase energy efficiency for  our customer's products 
Drive low-carbon green manufacturing 
Increase resilience against natural disasters 
Improve Company reputation image 
Opportunities Transition Risks 
TSMC also carried out actions  such as purchasing local  
renewable energy, building the TSMC Water Reclamation  
Plant in Tainan Science Industrial Park, planning and  
building green buildings, implementing programs for  
energy saving and carbon emissions reduction, and  
water conservation, investing into energy-efficient  
products, elevating building foundation, and more. For  
more details, please see "Financial Impact Analysis of  
Climate Change".  
GHG restrictions and  carbon taxes carbon levy 
Net zero emission trends 
EIA commitment 
Floods (TSMC) 
Floods Supply Chain 
Droughts (TSMC) 
Physical Risks 
Uncertainty in new  energy saving carbon  reduction technologies 
Impact on Company  reputation image 
Droughts Supply Chain 
Higher natural disaster  insurance premium 
Rising temperature 
Note 1: Carbon offset products are renewable energy certificates, carbon credits or other carbon neutral products. 
Financial Impact Analysis of Climate Change 
GHG Emissions Restriction and  Carbon Taxes Carbon Fee 
Net Zero Emission Trends 
EIA Commitment 
Uncertainties in the  Development of New Energy  Saving Carbon Reduction  Technologies 
Impact on Company reputation 
Flood Drought 
Higher Natural Disaster  Insurance Premium 
Rising Temperature Drive Low-carbon Green Manufacturing 
Potential Financial Impact Climate Risk Potential Financial Impact Climate Opportunities 2020 Actions 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
   Restriction on manufacturing capacity  expansion  increase in operation costs 
   Increased cost of installation and  operation for carbon reduction  facilities    Increased cost for purchasing carbon  offset products  Note 1 
   Unsuccessful attempts at obtaining  renewable energy and reclaimed water  have become obstacles to fabrication  using advanced technologies 
   Increase energy consumption in  production lines using new process  technologies result in higher  operating costs 
   Damage to company image when  unable to meet stakeholder  expectations 
   Production affected, resulting in  financial losses and a decrease in  revenue 
   Increase in operating costs 
   Increase in energy consumption,  costs, and carbon emissions 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Participation in Renewable Energy Plans  Participation in Carbon Trading Market 
Obtain Rewards from Public Sectors and  Collaborations of Carbon Emission Offset 
Develop Services to Deliver Low-carbon  Product and Increase Energy Efficiency  for Customers' Products 
Use of Reclaimed Water 
Construct Green Buildings 
Enhance Corporate Reputation 
Increase Resilience against Natural  Disasters 
   Stock up on required carbon credit  for future emissions 
   Satisfy customer demands for  energy-efficient products and  increase revenue 
   Successfully build advanced  production line 
   Reduce utilities costs 
   Upgrade sustainability ratings by  TSMC stakeholders 
   Strengthen climate resilience  and lower the risk of operation  interruption and potential losses 
   Save energy and reduce costs 
   Early purchases of renewable  energy, successfully increasing  manufacturing capacity 
   Elevated building foundation of Fab 18 Phase 3 by 2 meters 
   Fab 18 Phase 3 committed to using and developing reclaimed water 
   Established a comprehensive water monitoring system 
   Conserved 500 GWh of electricity through energy conservation programs 
   Only semiconductor company to have been in the Dow Jones  Sustainability Index (DJSI) for 20 consecutive years   Listed in Leadership  of CDP climate change and water security 
   Signed renewable energy contracts of up to 1.3 GW in Taiwan 
   Purchased 1,230 GWh of renewable energy to offset 100% of carbon  emissions of global offices and all overseas operation sites 
   Received rewards from public sector for offsetting F-GHGs and nitrous  oxide    Used carbon credit to offset carbon emissions and achieve net zero for  global offices 
   Invested in the development of 5-nm energy-efficient products 
   Started construction for the TSMC Water Reclamation Plant in  Southern Taiwan Science Park 
    Acquired 2 green building certificates 
TSMC has long been committed to green manufacturing  
and aspires to be a world leader in low-carbon  
manufacturing. The Company performs yearly reviews  
of the overall effectiveness of carbon reduction based  
Drive Low-carbon Manufacturing 
Note 1: Figures from Joint Steering Committee (JSTC) report of the World Semiconductor Council. Note 2: High Energy Consumption Suppliers are the suppliers that use  50 million kWh  year in a single facility. 
GHG Reduction Best Practices 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
ISO 14064-1 emissions inventory and third-party  verification 
    All facilities and subsidiaries completed emissions inventory  and third-party verification 
Optimize gas quantity used in production 
    Introduced optimized process parameters in accordance  with the manufacturing specifications of the Intelligent  Engineering Center 
Substitute high global warming potential (GWP)  fabrication gases 
    All 12-inch fabs are now using optimized carbon reduction  technology   remote plasma dissociation of Nitrogen  Trifluoride (NF3)     6-inch and 8-inch fabs are using Nitrogen Trifluoride(NF3)  Octafluorobutane(C4F8) 
Install Point-of-Use Abatement equipment for  fluorinated GHGs 
    Achieved full installation on new process tools using F-GHG  
Introduce POU Nitrous Oxide reduction technologies 
    Developed Nitrous Oxide reduction technologies and made  it a standard for new tools  became first in Taiwan to install  the technology in 100% of new process tools using N2O in Fab  18A and Fab 18B 
in new and existing fabs  and installed 1,684 POU abatement  equipment in 2020.     Replaced 84 existing POU abatement equipment to achieve  92% installation rate 
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Direct GHG Emissions Indirect GHG Emissions (From Purchased Energy) Indirect GHG Emissions (Value Chain) 
on third-party-verified GHG inventory results. Because  
F-GHG emissions and the indirect emission of GHGs  
due to power consumption are the two main sources of  
GHG emissions, TSMC has for many years, continued to  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
460  Measures 
ISO 50001 energy management and third-party  audits 
   ISO 50001 inventory and third-party certification were  conducted for all TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), and  TSMC (Nanjing) 
Construct green buildings 
   The Company leads the global semiconductor industry with  the largest LEED-certified building area and constructed two  more fabs, which received green building certification. In  total to date, 34 buildings have received LEED certifications  and 23 buildings received EEWH certifications 
Energy efficiency standards 
   Energy efficiency of advanced technologies leads industry  peers Note1, with 460 energy-saving measures over 8  categories implemented and 500 GWh saved 
Next-generation fab tools use energy-saving,  carbon-reducing designs 
   The only company in the world to launch energy-saving  programs on next-generation semiconductor fab tools   completed energy-saving programs on 68 models and  saved 200 GWh electricity 
Introduce renewable energy to reduce carbon  emissions 
   Leading semiconductor manufacturer in Taiwan with 1,230  GWh in renewable energy purchased and 100% use of  renewable energy in global offices 
Market Leader: Leads global industry peers All TSMC: Introduced in all TSMC facilities Significant: First and only in the semiconductor industry 
establish industry best practices for GHG reduction. In  
2020, TSMC replaced and installed roughly 1,684 local  
abatement facilities for fluorinated GHGs and nitrous  
oxide  acquired two new green building certificates  and  
59,000  Metric Tons 
9,500  Metric Tons 
ISO 14064-1 emissions inventory and third-party  audit 
    High Energy Consumption Suppliers  Note 2 are required to  complete GHG emissions inventory and third-party audits   40% completion rate in 2020 
Reduce carbon footprint from raw materials      Require High Energy Consumption Suppliers to set annual  targets and begin to save electricity  in 2020, TSMC suppliers  conserved 113 GWh in energy and reduced carbon emissions  by 59,000 metric tons 
Optimize delivery schedules 
    Improved process tools delivery schedules and replaced air  freight with ocean shipping, reducing 9,531 metric tons in  GHG emissions 
implemented energy-saving projects for process tools  
machines while taking progressive steps to increase the  
use of renewable energy to reduce the GHG emissions  
per unit product.   
Scope 1 GHG Emissions Scope 2 GHG Emissions Scope 3 GHG Emissions 
(Scope 1), of which fluorinated GHG emissions per  
GHG Emissions Inventory 
In 2020, TSMC continued to implement the benchmark   
practices of optimizing the use of process greenhouse  
gases, minimizing global warming potential (GWP),  
maximizing the removal rate in exhaust, and  
comprehensively adopted the best available technology.  
By taking tangible actions, the Company has effectively  
reduced 4.2 million metric tons of direct CO2e emissions  
Note 1: GHG emissions data for Scope 1 and Scope 2 from TSMC facilities in  Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), WaferTech, and VisEra Note 2: GHG emissions data for Scope 3 from TSMC facilities in Taiwan 
2014 2017 2018 2019 2020 Year 2014 2017 2018 2019 2020 Year 2014 2017 2018 2019 2020 Year 
Taiwan Fabs Taiwan Fabs Subsidaries Subsidaries 
Emission Intensity  tCO2e 12"wfr-layer Emission Intensity  tCO2e 12"wfr-layer 
0.0050 0.0045 0.0043 0.0041 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
392,989 300,015 
unit product were reduced considerably by 68% in  
2020, more than two times the target set by the World  
Semiconductor Council. Indirect emissions (Scope 2),  
caused by energy consumption, were also curbed as  
a result of increased use of renewable energy  indirect  
emissions (Scope 3) of upstream and downstream  
value chains mainly involve raw material production  
and energy-related activities. As such, TSMC has set  
energy conservation and carbon reduction goals with its  
Note 3: Emission factor based on data released in 2020 by the Bureau of                Energy stating that 0.509 kg of CO2e  kWh, where 1 kg of CO2e                equals 6,805 kJ Note 4: As of 2020, the unit for unit product indicators will be in "12-inch      equivalent wafer" 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
0.0140 0.0133 0.0138 
24,636 29,905 
6,673,235 7,429,951 
suppliers to work together toward creating a sustainable  
supply chain.  
As the world's largest provider of semiconductor  
technologies and capacity, TSMC is deeply aware of our  
responsibilities towards local and global environments. We  
pay close attention to Science Based Targets (SBTs) in line  
with the 2  C scenario and various climate actions such as  
the RE100 initiative. Using renewable energy is the primary  
3,770,912  4,242,521  4,315,497  5,307,028 5,511,486 
Materials Production  (ref. SimaPro model) Purchasing Energy (without  Scope1 2) (ref. EPA carbon  footprint database) Waste generated in  operations (ref. EPA carbon  footprint database) Upstream transportation  (ref. EPA carbon footprint  database) 
Employee commuting   (ref. EPA carbon footprint  database) Business travel   (ref. Boustead model) Total 
1,244,524   
Downstream transportation (ref. EPA carbon footprint  database) 
Unit: Metric Tons GHG Emissions and Reduction Trends 
way that companies are able to reduce carbon emissions, so  
TSMC has to collaborate with external partners to develop  
carbon reduction carbon negative technologies and obtain  
carbon credits for carbon offset to ensure TSMC is moving  
towards the SBT targets and net zero emissions. In 2020,  
TSMC was able to achieve 100% use of renewable energy in  
global offices and also used carbon credits to offset carbon  
emissions from natural gas used in the kitchen to achieve  
net zero emissions, setting a milestone for TSMC.  
Note 1: GHG emissions include Scope 1   2  standardized baseline is the  values in 2020. Note 2: TSMC revised the base year for Science Based Targets from 2017 to 2020. 
2010 2020 2015 2025 2030 
Carbon emissions pathway without reduction Carbon emissions pathway with reduction plans Actual carbon emissions SBT Pathway 
10,1x 0.88x 0.75x 
TSMC's manufacturing  is primarily based in Taiwan. In  
2020, TSMC achieved major progress in the renewable  
energy market: the Company became part of the  
first group to engage in renewable energy wheeling  
transactions. Unfortunately, our efforts have yet to  
guarantee sufficient supply in European and U.S.  
facilities. With our growing capacity, TSMC is unable  
to suppress the growth of overall carbon emissions  
despite implementing industry-leading standards for  
energy conservation carbon reduction and achieving  
targets for unit product carbon reduction. TSMC will  
continue striving towards SBTs and net zero emissions by  
strengthening green innovation, purchasing renewable  
energy, driving the development of regional green energy  
industries, using carbon neutral raw materials, and  
expanding external collaborations to develop carbon  
credit projects.  
Value EP L and Strive to Reduce  Carbon Externalities 
Every three years, TSMC updates or establishes product  
life cycle assessments, water footprint assessments, and  
carbon footprint assessments in Taiwan fabs and obtains  
ISO 14040, ISO 14066, and ISO 14047 certifications.  
Product life cycle assessment for overseas fabs was  
expected to be completed in 2020 but third-party  
certification organizations were unable to conduct site  
audits due to COVID-19  product life cycle assessment for  
overseas fabs will be delayed to 2021.  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
In terms of reducing unit product environmental  
footprint, TSMC uses an Environmental Profit and Loss  
(EP L) tool to convert environmental impact from  
TSMC operations into external costs (also known as  
environmental externalities). In 2020, TSMC completed  
the EP L module for the Total ESH Management digital  
system, allowing us to systematically compile operation  
data from various facilities in a timely manner as a  
continuous improvement management tool. Analysis in  
2020 revealed that Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions   
are the primary source of TSMC's environmental  
externalities, accounting for 96.6%. To mitigate external  
costs brought on by TSMC operations, TSMC continues  
to drive low-carbon manufacturing, improve energy  
efficiency, increase the use of renewable energy, and  
more. In 2020, unit product environmental externalities  
was reduced by 7.5% from the previous year. TSMC also  
applied EP L to upstream raw material suppliers, and we  
discovered that chemical raw materials manufacturing  
suppliers accounted for 51% of the supply chain's  
environmental externalities, which was primarily  
particulate matters and GHG emissions. EP L is now  
the cornerstone for TSMC when formulating carbon  
reduction strategies. In 2021, TSMC will be expanding  
partnerships with suppliers to work together and reduce  
external costs on society from GHG emissions and reach  
the 2030 goal of reducing unit product environmental  
externalities by 30%. 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Use Renewable Energy 
In 2020, with full support from the Board and  
management team, TSMC was able to purchase  
more renewable energy and move towards carbon  
neutrality. In July 2020, TSMC officially joined the  
RE100, becoming the first semiconductor company in  
the world to do so. We committed to 100% renewable  
energy in global operations and zero direct CO2  emissions from electricity consumption by 2050. TSMC  
hopes to drive the trend of renewable energy use in  
the global semiconductor industry through its own  
EP L Trend Chart  
Unit: EP L (NT  billion) Unit: Product environmental externalities (NT  12" wafer-e-mask layer) 
Year 2018 2017 2016 2019 2020 0 
GHG Water Resource Air Pollution Wastewater Waste 
Renewable energy from solar plants in the salt flats of Chiayi County  was officially provided to TSMC in early May 2020, making TSMC  one of the first companies in Taiwan to purchase retransmitted  renewable energy  (Photo credit: Vena Energy Taiwan) 
EP L Intensity 
sustainable actions. In 2020, TSMC received the first  
RE100 Leadership Awards - Most Impactful Pioneer  
from The Climate Group.  
Purchasing Renewable Energy 
TSMC vision is for corporate growth and the environment   
to prosper together. Our sustainability goals for 2030  
are 25% renewable energy consumption for all fabs  
and 100% renewable energy consumption for non- 
fab facilities. After all overseas sites transition to using  
Use of Renewable Energy and Ratio Renewable Energy Development Timeline 
Renewable Energy Purchased in Taiwan (100GWh) Renewable Energy Purchased Overseas (100GWh) 
Percentage of Renewable Energy Used (%) 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
2016 2018 2020 Year 2017 2019 
100% renewable energy, we will also expand the ratio of  
renewable energy consumption in local sites. 
The renewable energy development in Taiwan is in  
the early stage and TSMC is working with the MOEA,  
Bureau of Energy, Bureau of Standards, Metrology, and  
Inspection, Taipower, and the Allied Association for  
Science Park Industries to discuss and eliminate the  
gap between regulation and real practice as well as   
scheme out details for future wheeling transaction. By  
communicating  closely with the government and with  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
support from renewable energy businesses, Taiwan  
was able to reach its first renewable energy wheeling  
milestone in May 2020. The Solar Plant in Chiayi County  
generated and transmitted renewable energy to TSMC,  
and a number of onshore wind farms transmitted to  
TSMC fabs in Taiwan in the fourth quarter of 2020, an  
sign that Taiwan's renewable energy sector is growing  
stronger. As of the end of 2020, TSMC has signed power  
purchase agreements to purchase 1.3 GW of renewable  
energy, which will reduce 2.2 million metric tons of  
carbon emissions each year, helping achieve 100%  
   Became Taiwan's  biggest buyer of  green energy upon  first purchase 
   Taiwan's largest  green energy  buyer for two  consecutive years 
2017 2018 2019 
   In response to the Amendment to Electricity  Act opening up the electricity market, a  renewable energy team was established to  evaluate renewable energy purchases     Joined the Taiwan Renewable Energy  Certification Platform and became one  of the first semiconductor fabs to receive  renewable energy certificates     Three consecutive years as Taiwan's  biggest buyer 
   Taiwan fabs signed  long-term renewable  energy contracts     Overseas sites  started using 100%  renewable energy 
   Committed to using renewable energy  in Taiwan fabs  
renewable energy used in global offices, and making  
contribution to climate change mitigation.   
TSMC hopes to drive the renewable energy sector and  
related industries by purchasing renewable energy and  
supporting related government policies. Starting in  
2018, TSMC began to purchase renewable energy, RECs,  
and carbon credits in countries with comprehensive  
regulations and ample supply, aiming to completely  
offset carbon dioxide emissions from the power used in  
locations around the world including the United States,  
   One of the first in Taiwan to complete  renewable energy wheeling contracts  by purchasing 1,230 GWh of renewable  energy     First semiconductor company to join  the RE100     Signed the world's largest PPA (920 MW)  
Canada, Europe, China, and Japan  2020 marks the third  
consecutive year that TSMC has achieved zero carbon  
emission from power consumption in overseas sites.  
Renewable Energy Systems 
In addition to purchasing renewable energy, TSMC has also  
installed solar panels in TSMC facilities to produce carbon- 
free renewable energy for our own fabs. In 2020, 416 kWp  
of solar panel capacity was installed, and has already  
provided 4.63 GWh, reducing carbon emissions by 2,356  
TSMC Renewable Energy Capacity   Generated Unit Product Energy Consumption 
Hsinchu Science Park (kWp) Southern Taiwan Science Park (kWp) Central Taiwan Science Park  (kWp) Overseas (kWp) Power Generation kWh  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
1,130,124   
16.5 1,383,208 
2018 2020 Year 2017 2019 
Increase Energy Efficiency 
In 2020, TSMC continued to implement energy efficiency  
programs for manufacturing processes and with the  
goal of increasing energy efficiency by 100% after a  
process technology has entered mass production for  
metric tons (the equivalent of annual carbon absorbed by  
200,000 trees)  in 2021, an additional 227 kWp in capacity of  
solar panels will be added, and this is expected to generate  
up to 5.76 GWh of electricity.  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
3,704,733  
3,129 3,129 
Energy Efficiency of 10nm   7nm Process  Technologies 
Note 1:  Standardized baseline for energy efficiency is the values taken from the  first year of mass production of 10nm and 7nm process technologies. Note 2: The data covers TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing),  WaferTech, and VisEra. 
five years. By expanding innovative energy-saving  
measures, installing smart energy-saving equipment,  
and adding components for energy conservation, TSMC  
was able to increase energy efficiency of 10nm and  
7nm process technologies in the fourth year of mass  
production by 1.4 times, reaching our long-term 2030  
goal ahead of schedule  energy efficiency for the 16nm  
and above process technologies has also improved  
by 1.8 times. TSMC has an unwavering commitment to  
continue improving energy efficiency in the face of more  
complex, advanced process technologies in the future.  
Year 1 Yea r2 Year 3 Year 4 
Note 1:  The data covers Taiwan Facilities, TSMC (China), WaferTech, and TSMC (Nanjing)  Note 2:  Diesel and natural gases are not used in manufacturing and is therefore not  counted in unit product energy consumption. Note3: The unit product indicator is calculated based on 12-inch wafer equivalent  starting from 2020. 
In 2020, TSMC consumed a total of 16,900 GWh in energy   
with electricity making up 95%, natural gas coming  
second at 5%, and diesel with less than 0.1%. Electricity  
is the main energy used to power TSMC' s manufacturing  
equipment and fab systems. Natural gas is used in  
exhaust treatment facilities to reduce the direct emission  
of fluorinated greenhouse gases and volatile organic  
compounds. Diesel is not used directly in production,  
but to run emergency power generators and fire pumps  
during emergencies, power outages, or during annual  
maintenance.  
2016 2018 2020 2017 2019 Year 
Unit: kWh 12-inch equivalent wafer mask layer 
Expand Energy-saving Measures 
In 2020, TSMC's Energy-saving and Carbon Reduction  Committee worked to conserve more energy through  company-wide roll-outs of energy-saving measures. The  committee defined five major energy conservation teams  for different process technologies as part of their efforts to  conserve more energy from manufacturing equipment and  fab facilities. The five teams are the advanced processes R D   team, 12-inch wafer fab team, advanced backend and 8-inch  wafer fab team, EUV (extreme ultraviolet lithography) team,  and facility team.  
In response to the growing number of tools used at TSMC,  the Intelligent Engineering Center launched the Green  Manufacturing Engineering Program in 2020 to reduce  equipment repair risks and increase energy efficiency. With  the program, the Intelligent Engineering Center integrates  energy conservation planning and operations for all  fabrication equipment across all fabs. Each month, the five  energy conservation teams meet and discuss new innovative  measures for rapid roll-out into other fabs and set standards  for new fabs as soon as possible. The New Generation  Equipment Energy Conservation Program, launched in  2018, reached new heights in 2020 with 139 energy-saving  measures tested and applied to 68 different types of 5 nm  and 3nm manufacturing tools, helping TSMC save 200 GWh  in energy consumption.  
In 2020, TSMC carried out 460 energy-saving measures  across 8 different categories and was able to conserve 500  GWh in energy consumption, the equivalent of 250,000  metric tons of carbon emissions. The energy savings  translated into NT 1.25 billion of actual financial savings  and external carbon costs reduced from lower carbon  emissions were around NT 380 million.  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
15-year Energy-saving Targets 
Results of the New Generation Equipment  Energy Conservation Programs 
Accumulated Energy Saved (as of 2019) Additional  Energy Saved 
Energy conservation measures tested (items) 
Average energy conservation efficiency (model) 
Equipment (types) Energy conservation action plans (items) 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
 Additional Energy Saved in 2020 
2018 2020 2019 Year Year 
Accumulated Energy Saved in 2020 
Accumulated Energy  Saved in 2016 2019 
Total Energy Consumption GHG Emissions 
Non-renewable energy 
Diesel oil Natural gases 
2016 2018 2020 2017 2019 
Renewable energy 
GWh Increase 
Unit: 100 GWh 
Note1: 1 cubic meter of natural gas 10.5 kWh of electricity  1 kWh  3,600 kilojoules. Note 2: Data included Taiwan Facilities, WaferTech, TSMC (China), TSMC  (Nanjing), and VisEra. 
CO2 from Energy Use F-GHG N2O 
Unit: 100 GWh 
Energy Conservation Teams for Green Innovation 
Intelligent  Engineering Center Existing  backend    8-inch fab  machines 
Categories  Competent authority Five Energy  Conservation Teams Machines Energy Conservation Goals 2020  Achievements 
Manufacturing  Equipment 
Facility Division 
Facility  Equipment 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Advanced backend  and 8-inch wafer  fab team 
12-inch wafer  fab team 
Facility team 
Advanced  processes  R D  team 
New generation  3nm 5nm machines 
General  facilities not for  manufacturing 
Existing 12-inch  wafer machines 
EUV  machines 
    Develop and test energy- saving components     Find optimal tool settings for  energy conservation     Determine specifications for  new tools 
    Optimize recipe settings for  existing tools     Seek new ways to conserve  energy     Determine best known method  for energy conservation 
    Replace low energy efficiency  auxiliary equipment     Determine specifications for  new packaging and testing  equipment  
    Increase energy efficiency 
    Determine specification for  new tools 
   Replace low energy efficiency  equipment      Install smart energy  conservation system for  facility equipment    Determine specifications for  new equipment 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Fab 12A B, Fab 14B, Fab 15A, Fab 15B, and Fab 18A  saves 17.1 GWh each year by using lithium-ion batteries  for the uninterrupted power supply system 
Fab 15A and 15B reduced 25% in energy consumption  by introducing low-energy consumption system for  pipeline heating that effectively reduced pipeline surface  temperature 
All 8-inch wafer fabs began using green pumps and   green chillers, saving 12 GWh each year 
Fab 12B, Fab 15B, and Fab 18A increased energy  efficiency by 5% with big data analysis  
Fab 12B reduced 25 GWh by introducing green components,  green pumps, and optimal exhaust settings 
The Energy Saving and Carbon Reduction Committee awarded  Energy Conservation Model Awards and Energy Conservation  Innovation Awards according to employees' success with energy  conservation targets and innovative ideas. 
Trophies were made from recycled TSMC copper to add a special  eco-friendly touch while encouraging energy innovation. 
Energy Conservation Measures 
Note: Carbon dioxide emission is 0.509 kg CO2e kWh  1 kWh 3,600 kilojoules. 
10 Measures  94 GWh Energy Saved  47,800 Metric Tons CO2 Reduced 
7 Measures  32 GWh Energy Saved  16,300 Metric Tons CO2 Reduced 9 Measures  98 GWh Energy Saved  49,900 Metric Tons CO2 Reduced 
10 Measures  16 GWh Energy Saved  8,100 Metric Tons CO2 Reduced 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Energy Usage Management Lighting Energy Savings 
A.C. Energy Savings 
Increased Performance Standby Energy Savings 
   Smart lighting in non-cleanroom areas 
   Replace bulbs with LED lighting  
   Smart, energy-saving cooling unit 
   A.C. adjustments for energy conservation  
   Modified wet film for A.C. humidifier  
Fabs: All fabs 
Fabs: All fabs 
Fabs: 12-inch fabs 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
92 Measures  42 GWh Energy Saved  21,400 Metric Tons CO2 Reduced 25 Measures  10 GWh Energy Saved  5,100 Metric Tons CO2 Reduced 
   Energy-saving mode for uninterrupted power  supply system    Cooling fan for battery cabinet to conserve energy  
Fabs: All fabs 
Facility  Equipment 
   Reduced cooling water for manufacturing processes 
   Reduced exhaust emissions from equipment  
Fabs: All fabs 
Fabrication  Machines 
182 Measures  112 GWh Energy Saved  57,000 Metric Tons CO2 Reduced 
125 Measures  96 GWh Energy Saved  48,900 Metric Tons CO2 Reduced 
Unit Replacement 
New Unit Specs 
Equipment Adjustments 
   Replace with new high-efficiency,  energy-saving pumps  Fabs: Fab 3, Fab 2 5, Fab 6, and Fab 8  
   New equipment uses high efficiency,  energy-saving auxiliary equipment  Fabs: 12-inch fabs Advanced backend 
   Optimized power consumption  
Fabs: All fabs 
In addition to expanding energy-saving facilities and  
equipment, TSMC is also reducing material consumption,  
increasing climate resiliency, and including eco-friendly  
designs by building certified green buildings. As of  
2020, 34 fabs have received LEED gold international  
certifications and 23 fabs received EEWH certifications.  
TSMC also leads the global semiconductor industry  
with the largest LEED-certified architectural area, and  
is number one in Taiwan for the largest green building- 
certified areas and certified green fabs. In addition,  
TSMC launched the "Plant a Tree Program" in 2020,  
collaborating with government agencies to obtain land  
for creating forests and offering the public a healthier,  
better urban environment.  
TSMC built certified green buildings. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Leading the Industry by Example 
In 2020, although COVID-19 caused production and  
business activities around the world to decelerate,  TSMC  
continued to actively save energy and reduce carbon  
emissions, hoping to serve as a benchmark for the  
industry. In 2020, TSMC was once again recognized as  
an Outstanding Manufacturer for Voluntary Greenhouse  
Gases Emissions Reduction by the Bureau of Industrial  
Development, and was rated as a leading enterprise  
by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for carrying out  
green manufacturing commitments.  
TSMC has long worked to develop climate mitigation  
and adaption measures, and we are happy to share our  
insight and experiences with outside parties. The TSMC- 
led Taiwan Semiconductor Industry Association (TSIA)  
Energy Committee regularly engages with 13 association  
members to share energy-saving experiences and  
management practices. In 2020, TSMC conserved 500  
GWh in energy and helped association members save  
a total of 300 GWh in energy as well. TSMC also helped  
members obtain ISO 50001 certifications and was  
successful with a 71% completion rate. GHG reductions  
reached 82% in 2020, exceeding the association's goal. Note 
Note: Declared commitment to energy conservation and carbon reduction  at the High-Tech Energy Saving and Carbon Emission Reduction  Symposium   50% ISO 50001 completion rate and 80% GHG  reduction rate in 2020  target for 2025 is 80% ISO 50001 completion  rate and 85% GHG reduction rate . 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Note: In 2020, Fab 15B Phase 7 and Fab 18A Phase 1 became newly certified. 
TSMC Built Certified Green Buildings 
green  building 1 
Number 1 in the global  semiconductor industry with the  largest LEED-certified building  area  number 1 most LEED- certified company in Taiwan 
Largest EEWH-certified  building area in Taiwan 
Most green factory  certifications in Taiwan 
Largest exceptional  smart building-certified  building area in Taiwan 
Exceptional  Smart  Building 
Green  Factory  
All 12-inch fabs are  EEWH certified 
Green factory 
Smart building  certification - diamond 
All 12-inch fabs are LEED  gold certified or above Note 
23 green  building 
13 green  building 
5 green  building 
us further insight into the mechanism: EUV is  
reflected, on average, more than 10 times through  
a special transmission lens within the EUV  
machine. Each reflection results in 30% energy  
loss and so the machine preserves less than 2% of  
the light source power. In order to increase energy  
TSMC Leads Industry by Applying Big Data Analysis on EUV Machines  to Increase Energy Efficiency by 5% 
Semiconductor technologies are constantly  
evolving and Extreme Ultraviolet (EUV) technology  
is key to the successful evolution to  process  
technologies below 5nm. Unfortunately, energy  
consumption from EUV machines is more than  
ten times that of deep ultraviolet (DUV) machines.  
In order to ensure both process technology  
advancement and environmental sustainability,  
TSMC is searching for ways to conserve EUV  
power consumption and was able to successfully  
increase energy efficiency by 5% in 2020 through  
big data analysis and improving mechanisms. 
EUV machines are the most advanced machines in  
semiconductor lithography processes, and there  
is incredibly high risk associated with product  
quality when changing any processes. However,  
TSMC decided to collaborate with suppliers for the  
New Generation Equipment Energy Conservation  
Program. Research into EUV machines gave  
Case Study 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
efficiency of EUV machines, TSMC turned to big data  
to learn about how EUV light is produced, how energy  
is consumed, and how it operates. We discovered that  
the pulse created from EUV light and transmissions  
lens is the main factor in energy consumption, and  
immediately worked to develop mitigation measures.  
In 2020, TSMC first amended equipment programming  
to achieve optimal EUV light pulse power and  
redesigned the structure of the transmission lens to  
increase reflective rate by 3%. TSMC also analyzed  
data from our carbon dioxide laser system magnifier  
and realized that by replacing holding frequency with  
fluctuation frequency, we would be able to increase the  
magnifier's energy efficiency by 10%. Our three-pronged  
approach successfully increased the energy efficiency of  
EUV machines by 5% and the innovative approach has  
now been applied to new 3nm EUV machines so that  
we may do our part in conserving energy and reducing  
carbon emissions.  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
TSMC successfully increased energy efficiency by 5% in 2020 through big data analysis and improving mechanisms. 
Increased Transmissions  Lens Reflective Rate 
Improved Pulse Power 
Increased  EUV Energy  Efficiency by 5% 
Applied Big Data Analysis  with Smart Learning 
Optimized Operations  of Laser System 
Water Management 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Manage Water Resource Risk  
Enforce climate change mitigation  policies, implement water  conservation and water shortage  adaptation measures  
Develop Diverse Water Sources 
Develop water reclamation  technologies  continue to practice  water conservation and use reclaimed  water during fabrication 
Develop Preventive Measures 
Improve the efficiency of water  pollution prevention and removal  of water pollutants Note2  
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
Note 1: Replace city water with reclaimed domestic or industrial wastewater. 
Note 2: The scope of water pollution projects and figures include Taiwan  facilities and VisEra. 
Note 3: 2030 Goals raised from 30% to 50%. 
   Reduce unit water consumption liter 12-inch  equivalent wafer mask layer by 30%     (Base year: 2010) 
   Water pollution composite indicator 50%   above effluent standards Note3 
   Increase the replacement rate of reclaimed  water by more than 30% 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Note1    TSMC Tainan Science Park Reclaimed Water  Plant tender project completed and construction  commenced        
   Reduce unit water consumption (liter 12-inch  equivalent wafer mask layer) by 9%        (Base year: 2010) 
   Complete the TSMC Tainan Science Park  Reclaimed Water Plant and begin water  supply 
   Water pollution composite indicator reduction  rate of 44%  
Note 4: Due to test production in new fabs, unit water consumption did not meet our target. TSMC continues to commit to the development of water  reclamation technologies. The TSMC Tainan Science Park Reclaimed Water Plant is expected to be operational by 2021. 
Note 5: Due to increased fab production, TMAH concentration levels in discharge failed to meet the target. TSMC is evaluating expansion of the  treatment system. 
   Reduced unit water consumption by 8.9%          (Base year: 2010)  Note4        
   Discharged less than 6.3 ppm of  tetramethylammonium hydroxide(TMAH)  Note5    
   Water pollution composite indicator reduction rate of 42.4%  
Target: 10%  
Target: Commence the TSMC Tainan Science Park  Reclaimed Water Plant tender project and start supplying  water in 2021 
Target: 20% 
Target: Less than 6 ppm  
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
In 2020, TSMC became the first to bring 5 nanometer  
(5nm) process technologies to mass production. TSMC  
increased clean water consumption as 5nm process  
technology includes advanced wafer stacking and  
reduced wire width, meaning that the smallest dust  
particle could have an impact on yield. This further  
demonstrates the importance of effectively using water  
resources and flexibility in water resource management.  
TSMC strives for comprehensive water cycle management  
through the following three major strategies: managing  
water resource risk, developing diverse water sources,  
and developing preventive measures. 
TSMC Water Consumption Rate at Three Science Parks 
Hsinchu Science Park 
55.7   ten thousand  metric tons day 
97.4   ten thousand  metric tons day 
Southern Taiwan Science Park 
Baoshan Reservoir Second Baoshan  Reservoir 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Nanhua Reservoir Zengwen Reservoir 
Reservoirs 
Reservoirs 
5.7 appx.10.3% ten thousand metric tons day 
8.2 appx. 8.5% 
ten thousand metric tons day 
Manage Water Resource Risk Assess Water Risks   Establish Water  Risk Indicators 
In 2020, TSMC adopted the Water Risk Atlas from the World  
Resources Institute (WRI) to evaluate water risk levels in  
areas with TSMC facilities by using key indicators of water  
supply, effluent water quality, and regulatory reputation  
risks. TSMC facilities in Taiwan and our affiliate VisEra were  
both rated medium-to-low risk while Wafertech was rated  
low risk. TSMC (China) and TSMC (Nanjing ) were rated high  
and medium-to-high risk as they face differences in water  
quality in their regions and require refined water, thereby  
increasing wafer unit water consumption. 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
145   ten thousand  metric tons day 
Central Taiwan  Science Park 
 Liyutan Reservoir Deji Reservoir 
5.4 appx. 3.7% ten thousand metric tons day 
Reservoirs 
Daily Supply TSMC Water Consumption 
TSMC WRI Risk Identification 
TSMC  Assessment 2 
TSMC  Assessment  Results 
Overall WRI  Risk Index 1 
TSMC  Response  Measures 
Water risk, decreasing  underground water levels,  interannual variation, seasonal  variation, drought, flood risks,  tsunami risks 
Low Risk Mid-to-low Risk High Risk 
1Facility 15 Facilities 
Flood Risk 
Frequency Quality  Control 
Facility Design 
 Elevate facility   Install flood gates 
Coastal erosion, untreated  water bodies Drinking water quality,  sanitary conditions,  sustainable investment index 
Water Risk Water Quality Risk 
Mid-to-high Risk 
1Facility 1Facility 
Water Management 
 Establish emergency response  procedures 
 Develop diverse water sources 
 Recycle and reuse water 
 Set water pollution composite indicator 
Regulation    Reputation 
Effective Water Management with AWS 
The Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) sets the global standard for sustainable water management.  TSMC became  
the first semiconductor company in the world to receive Platinum Certification when Fab 6 and Fab 14B were certified.  
Other TSMC fabs are using the "smart copy" technique to earn AWS certifications as well.  In 2020, Fab 15A and Fab 15B 
Water Balance and Supply Chain Environmental Relationship Chart 
Monitor reservoir  water levels 
Sustainable Water Balance Good Water Quality Healthy Water Environment Safe Drinking Water and  Sanitation Environment Excellent Management System 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
TSMC Water  Reclamation Plant  in Southern Taiwan  Science Park 
Water Source Facility Water Balance Water Discharge 
Diverse water resource supply 
Introduced in 2021 
Water Plant 
Water Reclamation  Plants in Yongkang  and Anping,  Tainan 
Reclaiming AC  condensation water 
AC  Condensation  Water 
Reclaimed  AC Water 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Water Stress Management Blueprint 
Recycled  Rainwater  System 
Irrigation 
Domestic  Water  Consumption Air Scrubbing in  Cleanrooms 
Cooling Tower Exhaust Scrubber  System 
Water  allocation 
Smart Water Management 
AWS Five Achievements 
Water Recycling System 
Tool  Production Ultrapure Water  System 
broke records again by obtaining Platinum Certifications from AWS.  In 2021, TSMC will be focusing on certifications for  
Hsinchu facilities including Fab 12A, Fab 12B, Fab 5, and Advanced Backend Fab 3. 
Reclaiming air-scrubbing  water from cleanrooms 
Domestic  Wastewater Biological  Treatment System 
Backwash  Wastewater  Recycling 
Liquid  waste  distribution 
Replace city water with refined  recycling water 
Onsite recycling 
Reclaiming exhaust scrubbing water 
Smart water pumping model to  regulate peak water consumption 
COD Decomposition 
Wastewater  Treatment System 
Onsite  Wastewater  Treatment  Plant 
Waste  Resource  Recycling 
As a result of climate change, 2020 was the first year  
without typhoons since 1964. Without typhoons, the  
reservoir watershed experienced a sharp decline in  
rainfall collection.  TSMC deployed a blueprint for water  
stress management to monitor water levels in various  
reservoirs and adopted a water balance chart to take  
stock of water conservation measures. In May 2020,  
when the drought monitoring signal changed from blue  
to green (indicating fairly severe drought conditions),  
Drought Contingency Measures  Water Conservation Measures   Achievements in 2020 
Drought Monitoring Signal from  the Water Resources Agency Government Response  Measures Response Measures 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Normal water  levels 
Fairly severe 
First stage 
Second stage 
Third stage 
Government 
Suspend water supply for  irrigation in certain areas  for specific times 
Reduce water supply to  industrial users by 5-20% 
Encourage farmers  to suspend farming 
Stabilize supply and  demand 
Ration water  by district 
TSMC immediately established a Drought Emergency  
Response Team to monitor water sources and water truck  
capacities and reduce water consumption by 5%. Water  
levels remained low until November 2020, during which  
TSMC decided to further reduce water consumption by  
7%. Smart water recycling management mechanisms  
were activated to allocate reclaimed water to TSMC  
facilities and increase water efficiency. 
Monitor WRA reservoirs supplying water to TSMC  facilities and regularly host drills 
Drought Emergency Response Team begins to  monitor water sources water truck capacities and reduce water consumption by 5%. 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Activate water trucks Reduce water supply by 5-20% Reduce water consumption by 7-20%  Not initiated in 2020) 71,000 metric tons 
Perform Water truck drills Reduce water consumption by 7% 
The four major water conservation measures at TSMC are  
to "Reduce Facility System Water Consumption, Increase  
Wastewater Recycling of Facilities , Improve Water  
Production Rate of the System, and Decrease Water  
Discharge Loss from the System ". These four measures  
are integrated with the three water management  
processes of "Water Supply Diversity, Water Efficiency  
Management, and Wastewater Resource Recycling". TSMC  
strives to uncover more opportunities to conserve water  
Strengthen Water Management   Increase Water Recycling 
   Improved usage  efficiency by allocating  reclaimed water (14%)  270,000 metric tons 
24,000 metric tons  
6,000 metric tons  
Improve Water Production  Rate of the System Increase Wastewater  Recycling by Facilities 
Reduce Facility System  Water Consumption 
   Increased the water  production rate of RO  recycling systems (1.3%)  
   Reduced cooling  tower and sand filter  backwash water (0.3%)  
   Extend regeneration  and backwash cycle for  clean water   recycling  system (3.7%)  
Additional Water  Conservation  Levels in 2020 
million metric tons 1.927 
(15.4%) 297,000 metric tons  
Backwash  Wastewater  Recycled 
and has developed 38 distribution systems based on  
the composition and concentration of wastewater from  
fabrication for wastewater classification and resource  
management. Equipment is then used to decompose  
pollutants and increase water recycling. With 9 recycling  
systems and 13 wastewater facilities, TSMC has been able  
to develop 10 renewable materials as of 2020.  
378,000 metric tons  
295,000 metric tons  
125,000 metric tons  
461,000 metric tons  
Decrease Water Discharge  Loss from the System 
   Recycled hydrofluoric  acid wastewater (6.5%)   
   Reclaimed water  produced from TMAH  system (23.9%)  
   Recycled  from MAU  Drain (15.3%) 
   Purified reclaimed  water into industrial  water (19.6%)    
Wafer unit water consumption continues to increase  
due to stricter requirements for clean water from  
advanced processes and optimized operations. TSMC is  
implementing our four water conservation measures to  
increase water sources and reduce water consumption,  
but we continue to seek other opportunities to conserve  
Annual Water Conservation Water Recycling and Usage Efficiency  City Water Consumption and Water  Consumption per Wafer-Layer 
Annual Cumulative Water Conserved (ten thousand metric tons) 
Annual Additional Water Conserved (ten thousand metric tons) 
2016 2018 2020 2017 2019 2016 2018 2020 2017 2019 2016 2018 2020 2017 2019 2016 2018 2020 2017 2019 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
water. In 2020, TSMC launched a backwash wastewater  
recycling system and was able to conserve 297,000 metric  
tons of water, further increasing water conservation  
levels in 2020 to 1.927 million metric tons, and reducing  
wafer unit water consumption to 128.4 (L 12-inch  
equivalent wafer mask layer). TSMC was able to achieve  
Note 1: Total amount of water recycled includes numbers from  manufacturing process water treatment and recycling as well as  manufacturing process water recycling in scrubber towers Note 2: Total volume of water recycled and average recycling rate of water for  manufacturing processes are calculated with data from TSMC facilities  in Taiwan, WaferTech, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing) and VisEra 
Average process water recycling rate (%) 
Total amount of water recycling (million metric tons) 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
87.4% 87.5% 86.7% 86.4% 
94.3 103.4 129.0 133.6 173.0 
Note:  City water consumption and unit water consumption intensity index are 
an 8.9% reduction from the base year but was unable to  
meet our annual target. In 2021, the TSMC Tainan Science  
Park Reclaimed Water Plant will become operational and  
it is expected to reduce TSMC s demand for city water.  
In 2020, the wafer unit wastewater discharge was 86.0  (L 12-inch equivalent wafers mask layer), which was a  
Water consumption per wafer-layer (Liter 12-inch equivalent wafer  mask layer) Total city water consumption of Taiwan facilities (million metric tons)  
Total city water consumption of subsidiaries (million metric tons) 
 calculated with data from TSMC facilities in Taiwan, WaferTech, TSMC  (China), TSMC (Nanjing) and VisEra 
107.3 106.2 
133.4 128.4 
Wastewater Discharge per Unit Product 
Note: Wastewater discharge and unit wastewater intensity index are  calculated with data from TSMC facilities in Taiwan, WaferTech,  TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing) and VisEra 
3.9% reduction from last year. This indicates that our four  water conservation measures are effective in reducing  pollutant concentration and increasing water recycling. 
Wafer mask unit wastewater (Liter 12-inch equivalent  wafer mask layer) TSMC Wastewater (million metric tons)  
Subsidary Wastewater (million metric tons) 
70.7 70.0 71.2 
thousand metric tons of reclaimed water per day. The  
water plant will help reduce city water consumption,  
make strides toward water recirculation, and develop  
diverse water sources. 
Develop Diverse Water Sources Cyclical Water Resources   Developing  Reclaimed water  
As a leading global semiconductor company, TSMC  
began investing in water reclamation technologies  
in 2015 by coordinating with government agencies to  
develop domestic wastewater recycling processes that  
meet water quality standards and establish industrial  
wastewater recycling facilities.  In 2019, bidding for TSMC  
Tainan Science Park Reclaimed Water Plant opened  
successfully and in 2020, construction commenced and  
wastewater supply network designs within the park  
began. In 2021, we expect the water plant to supply ten  
Fab 18A biological treatment system. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Milestones in Water Reuse 
Note: Water supply schedule and volume for 2021 and thereafter are calculated from reclaimed water consumption contracts between TSMC and government departments agencies (Southern Taiwan Science Park Administration and Tainan City Government). 
   Collaborated with  Southern Taiwan Science  Park Management  Department to build the  TSMC Tainan Science Park  Reclaimed Water Plant 
   Commenced construction  of water reclamation plant  in Yongkang, Tainan 
Water Reclamation  Plan Groundbreaking  Ceremony  
   Collaborate with partner firms for the establishment of water  reclamation plant 
   Participate in the promotion of reclaimed water in Taiwan with the  Construction and Planning Agency of the Ministry of Interior, the  Water Resources Agency of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and  the Water Resources Bureau of the Tainan City Government 
Procurement, Tenders and Project Collaboration 
2021 2022 2023 2024 2019 67,000 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
TSMC Water Reclamation Plant Progress 
Concrete Pouring  for Ground-Level  Walls Rebar Works 
   Construction contract signed  for TSMC Tainan Science Park  Reclaimed Water Plant 
   Wastewater supply network  and construction of the  Tainan Science Park  Reclaimed Water Plant 
   Construct domestic water reclamation plant and supply water 
   Construct industrial water reclamation plant and supply water 
   Supply 5,000 tons  day of water from the  water reclamation  plant in TSMC  Tainan Science Park  Reclaimed Water Plant 
   Supply 5,000 tons day  of water from the water  reclamation plant in  Yongkang, Tainan 
Construct Water Reclamation Plant and Supply Water 
   Increase water supply  from the TSMC  Tainan Science Park  Reclaimed Water Plant  to 10,000 tons day 
   Supply TSMC with  5,000 tons day of  water from the water  reclamation plant in  Yongkang, Tainan 
   Supply TSMC with  10,000 tons day of  water from the water  reclamation plant in  Anping, Tainan 
   Increase water supply  for TSMC from the water  reclamation plant in  Yongkang, Tainan to  9,500 tons day 
   Increase water supply  from the TSMC Tainan  Science Park Reclaimed  Water Plant to 20,000  tons day 
   Supply TSMC with  10,000 tons day of  water from the water  reclamation plant in  Anping, Tainan 
   Supply 20,000 tons day  of water from the water  reclamation plant in  TSMC Tainan Science Park  Reclaimed Water Plant 
   Supply TSMC with 9,500  tons day of water from the  water reclamation plant in  Yongkang, Tainan 
   Increase water supply  for TSMC from the water  reclamation plant in Anping,  Tainan to 37,500 tons day 
Total Water Supply  from the Tainan  Science Park  Reclaimed Water Plant 
(metric tons day) 
Develop Preventive Measures Reduce Pollutant Concentration in Effluents 
As a leader in the global semiconductor industry, TSMC  
is working on developing a variety of measures for  
water pollution prevention to mitigate impact on the  
environment caused by TSMC operations. Suspended  
solids, ammonia nitrogen, and copper ion are key  
pollutants that were reduced to legally required effluent  
standards ahead of schedule in 2018 and 2019. In 2020,  
Tetramethylammonium hydroxide (TMAH) concentration  
was reduced to 6.3ppm but failed to achieve the 2020  
Preventive Techniques on Key Pollutants of Wastewater Quality  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Water  Pollution  Composite Indicator Reduction Rate Achievements 
Key  Preventive  Measures  
    Suspended Solids 29.4 ppm 
   Ongoing    Coagulation and precipitation  from backwashing wastewater 
Achieved 2025 goals ahead of schedule 
target despite a 20% reduction from the previous year.  
TSMC is working to reduce TMAH concentration by  
developing low-concentration TMAH recycling and anion  
adsorption technologies. COD reduction is more difficult  
to achieve because evolving fabrication processes have  
increased demand for organic compounds. TSMC hopes  
to develop biological treatment systems that can help  
achieve 100ppm by 2025. 
2021 2018 2019 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Update ammonia nitrogen  treatment system  
   Separation copper-containing liquid  waste and electroplating 
    Copper Ion  0.09 ppm 
    Ammonia Nitrogen  17.31 ppm  
Achieved 2025 goals ahead of schedule 
Key Pollutant Index Overall Water Pollution Index 
Water Pollution Composite Indicator 
For a comprehensive insight into the environmental  
impact of effluent pollutants, TSMC has developed a water  
pollutants. The indicator is capped by legal effluent  
standards and serves as a key indicator in reducing  
and preventing pollutant concentration in effluents. In  
response to evolving fabrication processes and increased  
demand for chemicals, TSMC will continue to develop its  
reduction goals in 2030 from 30% to 50%.  In 2020, the  
Water Pollution Composite Indicator was reduced by  
42.4%, exceeding the 20% target of the year. 
pollution composite indicator based on eight major  
own membrane bioreactor system and has increased  
   Recycle low-concentration liquid waste 
   Set up biological treatment system 
    TMAH 6.3 ppm  
    COD 194 ppm 44% 
Note: Data includes Taiwan Facilities. 
Water Pollution Composite Indicator  Reduction 
38.8% 38.7% 36.8% 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Year 
43.8% 42.4% 
Note 1: TMAH stands for Tetramethylammonium hydroxide Note 2: Among these recycled products, sulfuric acid and electronic grade coating copper are reused on TSMC sites, while the rest are reused externally by other industries Note 3: Introduced silicon slurry recycling in 2020 
Wastewater Classification and Resource System 
Hydrofluoric (HF) Acid Wastewater 
Tap Water Processing Equipment Discharge to On-site  Wastewater Treatment Facilities Rivers and the Environment Reused by Other Industries 
CMP Wastewater 
Acidic, Caustic, and Organic Wastewater 
High- concentration Liquid Waste 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
38 Different Types of Liquid Classified 9 Recycling Systems 13 Types of Wastewater Treatment 10 Products Recycled 
   HF acid wastewater (2 types) 
   Ozone-containing HF acid wastewater 
   Manufacturing process scrubbing water 
   Deionized water 
   Ozone-containing  deionized water 
   Acidic wastewater  
   Ozone-containing  acidic wastewater 
   Electroplating wastewater 
   CMP wastewater (2 types) 
   Copper-containing CMP wastewater 
   Cobalt-containing CMP wastewater 
   Waste sulfuric acid 
   Waste copper sulfate 
   Cobalt-containing liquid 
   Other wastewater (16 types) 
   Caustic wastewater 
   Ozone-containing Caustic  wastewater 
   TMAH wastewater 
   Organic wastewater   
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Hydrofluoric (HF) acid wastewater 
   Local scrubber wastewater recycling 
   Acidic wastewater recycling 
   Ozone-containing acidic wastewater recycling 
   Caustic wastewater recycling 
   Caustic wastewater upcycling 
   Organic wastewater recycling 
   Chemical coagulation recycling of CMP wastewater 
   Copper-containing CMP wastewater upcycling 
   TMAH liquid waste recycling 
   Biological treatment system for organic  wastewater 
   CMP wastewater treatment 
   Copper-containing CMP wastewater treatment 
   Cobalt-containing CMP wastewater treatment 
   Waste-H2SO4 reclamation 
   Chemical coagulation treatment of HF acid 
   HF (including ammonia) treatment 
   Biological treatment of HF acid wastewater 
   Acidic and Caustic wastewater treatment 
   NH4-N wastewater treatment and recycling 
   Copper-containing electroplating wastewater  recycling 
   Cobalt-containing electroplating wastewater  recycling 
   Calcium fluoride 
   Fluorite 
   Ammonium sulfate 
   Ammonia water 
   Silicon slurry 
   Sulfuric acid 
   Copper bar 
   Cobalt bar 
Semiconductor manufacturing technology  
in effluents. To improve water quality, TSMC has  
organic compounds as well as increasing COD levels  
designed a distribution system to collect advanced  
organic wastewater (AOR) and monitor equipment  
TSMC has been able to reduce COD concentration  
by more than 90% through adjusting organic  
Organic wastewater from semiconductors requires a  
more complex biological treatment than regular  
organic wastewater. TSMC invested labor and  
developing a membrane bioreactor system  
applicable to semiconductor manufacturing to  
further reduce COD levels. 
Developing Hydro luoric Acid  Wastewater Membrane Bioreactor  System to Reduce COD 
organic wastewater. However, the system requires a  
large area and the process faces problems  
Track Distribution in High-concentration Organic Matter Processes to  Reduce COD Emissions   90%  
continues to advance, increasing the demand for  
that emit high-concentration organic compounds.  
compound emission parameters on equipment.  
resources to sustain our environment, successfully  
The membrane bioreactor system is a key  
technology that resolves previous problems with  
Case Study 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
increase efficiency gain with calcium fluoride, and contain  
with clogging from biological thin films as the organic  
manufacturing. High-concentration organic wastewater  
system and ensure the system can be placed within fabs.  
Organic wastewater containing hydrofluoric acid will  
undergo reverse osmosis to increase fluoride ion levels,  
An automatic thin film pickling device is also designed so  
that bacteria can adhere to the permeable membrane for  
In 2020, Fab 18A successfully used a distribution tracking to  
We are also advancing our biological treatment of organic  
achieve  100 ppm in COD emissions by 2025. 
wastewater from semiconductor fabrication contains  
hydrofluoric acid. As such, TSMC is working to develop a  
membrane bioreactor system applicable to semiconductor  
sources are first identified and channeled into the  
membrane bioreactor system to reduce the size of the  
calcium carbonate levels (water hardness) below 300 ppm.  
better performance, reduced clogging, and water recycling. 
improve machinery emission parameters and reduce COD  
emission concentration to 150 ppm with the help of  
TSMC s unique membrane bioreactor system. Fab 18A  
accomplished a major milestone for new fabs and its  
processes will become the design standard for future fabs.  
wastewater to drive green manufacturing, and expect to  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
COD Treatment Process 
Machine using  organic compounds 
Wastewater  separated by  concentration  levels 
Low-concentration  organic wastewater 
Recyclable  water High-concentration  organic wastewater 
Biological thin film treatment process 
Biological  treatment system 
Regular wastewater treatment 
science park wastewater plant Reverse osmosis (RO)  system Wastewater  tanks 
Use RO system to  recycle water produced  from the biological  treatment system 
Low-concentration COD Wastewater discharge 
Waste Management 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Source Reduction  
Promote waste reduction by  source separation and require  vendors to provide low chemical  consumption equipment 
Circular Economy  
Collaborate with vendors to develop  new waste recycling technology  to increase the amount of waste  recycled and reused 
Audit and Guidance 
Conduct audit,  joint evaluation  and guidance based on regulations  governing waste treatment vendors  in high-tech industry 
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
Note1: The unit product indicator for outsourced unit waste treatment per wafer is calculated based on 12-inch  wafer equivalent starting in 2020. Accordingly, the goal was adjusted from 0.22 (kg 8-inch equivalent  wafer mask layer) to 0.50 (kg 12-inch equivalent wafer mask layer). 
Note2: See section on  Source Reduction  for reasons why targets were not achieved.  
Note3: TSMC will be building advanced manufacturing facilities in 2021. Considering the initial demand  for equipment cleaning and wafer testing in new facilities, the target set for outsourced unit waste  
   Outsourced unit waste disposal per wafer     0.50 
   Develop multiple types of electronic-grade  chemicals for TSMC resource circulation  
   All waste treatment vendors shall acquire ISO  14001 or other international EHS Management  certifications Note4 
(kg 12-inch equivalent wafer mask layer)  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Outsourced unit waste disposal per    
   82% of waste treatment vendors shall   acquire ISO 14001 or other international EHS  Management certifications 
   In-house resource recycling rate    22%    In-house resource recycling rate 22% 
wafer   1.15 
(kg 12-inch equivalent wafer mask layer)  
Note4: TSMC requires waste treatment vendors to at least acquire ISO14001 or ISO45001 certifications as the basis for standardized  management. Waste treatment vendors include waste treatment and recycling vendors. Vendors exempted from online  reporting, government-owned enterprises, or public-to-private enterprises, are excluded from the aforementioned vendors. 
treatment per wafer in 2021 is higher than that of 2020. To achieve the   0.50 target for 2030, TSMC will launch programs  including raw material reduction, expanding in-house resources recycling equipment, building a zero waste manufacturing  center and electronic-grade material recycling trials.  
   Outsourced unit waste disposal per wafer 1.01 
   80% of waste treatment vendors have  acquired ISO 14001 or other international EHS  Management certifications     
(kg 12-inch equivalent wafer mask layer) 
Target:   0.88 
Target:   23% 
Target: 75% 
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
As a practitioner of green manufacturing, TSMC's  
waste management strategies abide by the principle  
of waste minimization, resource recycling, and reuse  
maximization. In 2020, the waste recycling rate reached  
95% for the sixth consecutive year. TSMC achieves source  
optimization and minimization by adjusting raw materials  
usage parameters at the source and technical solutions  
for process technology. After raw materials are used in  
manufacturing processes, onsite recycling is prioritized  
so that resources are sufficiently reused instead of being  
disposed of as waste right away. TSMC also promotes  
source reduction throughout the supply chain to facilitate  
Intelligent Waste Management Procedure with Full Traceability 
    Waste treatment vendor management project 
Sold as  product 
Source separation and  collection procedure 
Waste output tracking and in- house reduction project 
Resource recycling equipment 
Zero-Waste Manufacturing  Center NEW 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
In-house Waste Management Recycled Product Flow Treatment and Reuse Operation Waste Clean-up Recycled Product Transport  
Used Resource Output 
Production  process 
Raw material 
17% Reuse  in the fab 
    New vendor selection  procedure     Annual evaluation  standards     Waste Management  Practice Forum NEW 
78% Waste  resources  
waste reduction upstream, and the reuse of wafer  
cassettes at downstream packaging and testing facilities. 
TSMC's waste resource management makes use of  in- 
house resource recycling equipment and turns waste into  
products. Furthermore, TSMC approved construction  
plans for our first Zero-Waste Manufacturing Center in  
2020. When waste treatment needs to be outsourced,  
recycling and recovery are prioritized over incineration  
and landfill to ensure optimal resource utilization. The  
percentage of waste sent to landfills has been less than  
1% for the past 11 years as of 2020. 
    TSMC GPS satellite  fleet system     Automated Waste  Disposal Declaration  Platform NEW 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
1%  Recycled energy 
5% Incineration landfill  
    Annual audit plan 
    Quarterly audit plan 
    ISO 14001 certification plan 
    Intelligent management plan for proper treatment 
Outsourced Waste Treatment 
Reuse  in processes 
In addition to implementing a circular economy, TSMC  
also takes full responsibility for the management of  
waste clean-up, treatment, and recycled product flow.  
Under the Waste Treatment Vendor Sustainability  
Enhancement Project, 80% of waste treatment vendors  
have acquired ISO14001 certification. At the same time,  
the existing waste life cycle management procedure  
is continuously being upgraded towards the more  
systematic, automated, and smart Intelligent Waste  
Management Procedure with Full Traceability. In 2020,  
TSMC collaborated with the Environmental Protection  
Administration (EPA) to establish the first   
72%  Recycled products 
    Cloud reporting  platform NEW 
Automated Waste Disposal Declaration Platform in the  
industry. It provides a mechanism for real-time waste  
declaration and clean-up monitoring launched along  
with TSMC s GPS Satellite Fleet System. In addition, the  
Intelligent Management Plan for Proper Waste Treatment  
was started to launch to fully replace manual inspection.  
Systematic cloud-based tracking is used to trace  
recycled product transport and flow to prevent illegal  
waste disposal. Waste treatment vendors are encouraged  
to keep pace with TSMC in achieving environmental  
sustainability.  
Waste resources recycled and remade  into over 30 types of products for  circular use in other industries 
Raw Materials for other industries like  optoelectronic semiconductor, chemical  industries, etc. 
    Monthly tracking report 
    Cloud reporting platform NEW 
Other Industries 
Note1: Data includes Taiwan facilities. Note2: The data is compiled based on waste  disposal declaration data and the  processing capacity of in-house resource  recycling facilities. Note3: Subsidiaries will start recycle evaluation  plan to reduce landfill rate in 2021. 
Outsourced Waste  Outsourced General Waste  
In-house Recycled  Resources Percentage of Recycled Waste  
Total Waste Production 705,850 Metric tons 
Taiwan facilities Subsidiaries 
Taiwan facilities Subsidiaries 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
2020 Percentage of  Recycled Waste 
 Unit: Metric tons year 
Unit: Metric tons year 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Taiwan facilities Subsidiaries 
Taiwan facilities Subsidiaries 
673,189 Metric tons Recycled Waste 
32,661 Metric tons Non-recyclable Waste 
72% 513,643 metric tons Recycled Materials 
17% 120,188 metric tons Reused in Fabs 
5% 35,387 metric tons  Converted to Products and Sold 
1% 3,971 metric tons Recycled Energy (Auxiliary Fuel) 
5% Incineration 
Unit: Metric tons year 
Percentage of Waste Sent to Landfill 
31,252 metric tons 
Outsourced Hazardous Waste 
1,409 metric tons 
Taiwan facilities Subsidiaries 
Taiwan facilities Subsidiaries 
Outsourced  General Waste 
Outsourced  Hazardous Waste 
Unit: Metric tons year 
Unit: Metric tons 
Source Reduction  
As complexity and production capacity increase in  
advanced processes, TSMC s raw material consumption  
increases along with waste generation. To reduce  
environmental impact, TSMC established a Waste  
Management Task Force and the Unit Waste Production  
Management System in a cross-organizational effort. The  
self-imposed management mechanism is enhanced with  
the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) management cycle to  
commit to source reduction. In 2020, TSMC implemented  
226 waste management improvement measures,  
including process simplification, extending the life cycle  
of chemicals and maintenance schedule, exploring new  
chemical alternatives, and introducing high-temperature  
manufacturing processes. A total of 37,858 metric tons  
of waste were reduced as TSMC strives to lower material  
Waste Reduction Management Mechanism  
React Audit 
Plan Execute 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Data Inventory and  Planning 
Continuous  Improvement 
Conduct cross-fab and cross- category comparison analysis  on waste to plan for reduction  projects and annual goals 
Review gap between current  performance and target result  to continuously improve  deficiencies and solve anomalies 
Waste Management  Task Force   Unit Waste Production  Management System 
use and waste production from all dimensions.  
New TSMC facilities began operations in 2020. Due to the  
complexity of new process development, higher demand  
for wafer cleanliness, and the need to continue adjusting  
and optimizing operations system, the outsourced  
unit waste treatment per wafer was 1.01 (kg 12-inch  
equivalent wafer mask layer). The in-house resource  
recycling rate was 22%, which also missed the original  
goal for the year. In the future, TSMC will continue to  
implement measures such as reducing chemicals at the  
source, expanding in-house resource recycling facilities,  
building and launching the Zero-Waste Manufacturing  
Centers, and reusing electronic-grade materials to meet  
the 2030 goal of achieving 0.5 kg outsourced waste  
treatment per wafer.  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Conduct experiments and trials  on reduction plan including  adjusting manufacturing  process parameters 
Control raw material usage,  waste output and measure  concentration to meet target 
Control and  Measurement 
Experiments and  Operation 
Waste Reduction Measures and Results in 2020 
Chemical use time flow reduction 105 Cases 
Process simplification solution 43 Cases 
Chemical alternatives 34 Cases 
Life cycle extension of chemicals 28 Cases 
Maintenance schedule extension  9 Cases 
Introduction of high-temperature process 7 Cases 
2 Cases Copper-containing cobalt-containing  liquid waste electrolysis 
1 Cases Ammonium sulfate waste  crystallization 
1 Cases Silicon-containing liquid waste filter  press dehydration 
1 Cases Sulfuric acid liquid waste reclamation  
  150,000 metric tons 
  30,000 metric tons 
Manufacturing  Equipment Waste  Reduction 
In-house  Recycling  Equipment 
Circular Economy 
Dedicated to the implementation of a circular economy,  
TSMC is no longer just a waste resources producer. To  
strengthen control over product flow and reduce risks  
derived from mishandling by outsourced vendors,  
TSMC continues to implement the "Action Plan to Turn  
Waste into High-Value Products", which includes the  
development and introduction of resource recycling  
technologies and equipment. Waste resources produced  
in manufacturing processes are revitalized and remade  
into products to be used within TSMC facilities or sold to  
other industries. 
Timeline for the Waste-to-Value Action Plan TSMC Aspires to be a Practitioner of Circular Economy 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2025 2019 2020 
Waste sulfuric acid Coppercontaining liquid waste Ammoniumsulfate liquid waste Cobaltcontaining liquid waste Silicon-containing liquid waste 
   Activated waste sulfuric acid  resource reuse equipment 
Activated  resource reuse  equipment 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
   Activated  coppercontaining  liquid waste  resource reuse  equipment 
Amended Articles of Incorporation by  adding 4 categories of business items 
2. Began sales of  cobalt tubes 
1. Started selling self- produced recycled  products   cross-fab  recycling 
   Started selling copper tubes 
   Started recycling and reusing  electronic-grade copper anodes 
   Activated ammonium sulfate  waste resource reuse equipment 
   Started selling industrial  ammonium sulfate crystals 
   Initiated cross-fab recycling  of sulfuric acid 
1. Achieved zero  waste or zero  purchasing goals 
2. Established our  first electronic- grade chemical  recycling test line 
Since 2015, TSMC has been actively implementing on-site  
reuse of waste sulfuric acid, and has set up equipment  
to recycle cobalt-containing and copper-containing  
liquid wastes to reduce sulfuric acid consumption and  
outsourced treatment of cobalt-containing and copper- 
containing liquid wastes. To increase the value of  
materials recycled from copper-containing liquid waste,  
TSMC worked with raw material suppliers on developing  
purification procedures that remake pure recycled copper  
tubes into electronic-grade copper anodes.  A cumulative  
total of over 10 metric tons of electronic-grade copper  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Established our first electronic-grade sulfuric acid  recycling test line 
   Achieved zero copper-containing liquid waste  
   Activated cobalt-containing liquid waste  resource reuse equipment 
   Achieved zero cobalt-containing liquid waste 
   Achieved zero purchase of industrial-grade sulfuric acid 
Approved construction plans for the  first Zero-waste Manufacturing Center 
   Started selling cobalt tubes 
   Activated silicon-containing liquid waste  resource recycling equipment  
   Began sales of industrial silicon products 
Start recycling  and reusing  electronic-grade chemicals 
anodes have been reused in  TSMC manufacturing  
processes as of 2020. In addition, TSMC has built the  
Ammonium Sulfate  Waste  Crystallization System to  
optimize operational procedures and efficiency. In  
expanding in-house resource recycling equipment, TSMC  
introduced the "Physical Regeneration Technique for  
Backgrinding Wastewater" that turns silicon-containing  
metric tons of waste and produced 120,000 metric tons of  
products, creating more than NT 500 million of value in  
resources circulation. 
liquid waste into industrial silicon cake, TSMC's fifth  
recycled product. In 2020, TSMC recycled over 150,000  
Note: Income value statistics cover Taiwan facilities. 
Income  generated from  waste recycling 
Thousand (NT ) 
Thousand (NT ) 
Cost saved  from waste  reduction 
Raw  Material Waste  
NEW Zero-Waste Manufacturing Center With the establishment of the Zero-Waste  Manufacturing Center, TSMC purifies waste  resources generated from manufacturing  processes into electronic-grade or  industrial-grade products. 
Semiconductor  Process 
Artificial Fluorite, Electronic-Grade  IPA, and Other Recycled Products 
Waste  Resources 
Wafer  Product 
In 2020, TSMC approved construction plans for the  
Zero-Waste Manufacturing Center in the Central Taiwan  
Science Park. Construction is scheduled to complete  
in 2023. At the same time, TSMC participated in  
technology development and launched the electronic- 
grade chemicals recycling pilot line including IPA and  
cyclopentanone and ammonia. The goal is to purify  
IPA, cyclopentanone and ammonium sulfate waste into  
reusable materials for TSMC processes and subsequently  
reduce environmental impact through material  
reclamation.   
Resource Recycling Equipment With the development and introduction  of resource recycling technology, TSMC  converts waste resources generated  from manufacturing processes into  industrial products.  
Copper, Industrial Ammonium  Sulfate Crystals, Silicon Cake,  and Other Recycled Products 
Waste Treatment  Vendor Recycling,  Reuse and Disposal 
Waste Treatment  Vendor Disposal 
Reuse for Other  Industries 
Ammonium Sulfate Waste Crystallization System 2.0 Significantly Increases Treatment Capacity by 400% 
In response to the advancement of manufacturing  
processes and capacity, TSMC continues  
to strengthen efforts towards achieving a  
circular economy and effectively reducing the  
environmental impact of increased waste. TSMC  
collaborated with vendors throughout the supply  
chain to assess and improve the  Ammonium  
Sulfate Waste  Crystallization System. In 2020,  
TSMC completed the development of Ammonium  
TSMC In-House Ammonium Sulfate Waste Recycling Timeline  
Case Study 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Fab 15A adopted the  Ammonium Sulfate Waste  Crystallization System 1.0. 
Introduced digital  monitoring,  automated rinsing  mechanism and  other treatment  capacity  improvement  measures and  assessments 
Completed the development of Ammonium  Sulfate Waste Crystallization System 2.0 to be  standardized in new facilities  
Sulfate Waste  Crystallization System 2.0. Heating  
equipment is introduced to accelerate the heating cycle  
and reduce production loss after regular maintenance.  
Digital dashboards monitor  ionic concentration of  
the system to stabilize evaporation capacity. Also,  
the automated rinsing mechanism prevents blockage  
of process route to maintain solid-liquid separation  
performance. The upgraded system can increase  
treatment capacity by 400% from 400 metric tons to  
Introduce the Ammonium  Sulfate Waste  Crystallization System 2.0  to existing facilities 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Ammonium sulfate liquid  waste resource recycling  rate exceeds 90% 
2,000 metric tons a month. Accordingly, the system will  
become standardized in new facilities built in the future. 
Since 2018, TSMC has reduced over 15,800 metric tons  
of ammonium sulfate liquid waste outsourced for  
treatment and produced 4,200 metric tons of industrial  
ammonium sulfate crystals. The value created from  
waste recycling and reduction has exceeded NT 35  
million. TSMC will adopt the "smart copy" technique  
Ammonium Sulfate Waste Crystallization System 
Solid-Liquid Separation 
Industrial Ammonium  Sulfate Crystal 
Screening Packaging 
Crystallization Unit 
Ammonium Sulfate  Liquid Waste 
Heating Unit 
Dehydration 
Slower temperature rise 
Manual inspection on  ionic concentration 
Manual removal  of blockage 
Heating  equipment added 
Automated rinsing  mechanism 
Digital monitoring  dashboard 
to introduce the Ammonium Sulfate Waste  
Crystallization System to existing facilities.In  
2022, the system can reduce ammonium sulfate  
outsourced for treatment by an estimated 60,000  
metric tons per year and yield more than 15,000  
metric tons of industrial ammonium sulfate  
crystals, which will create NT 130 million in value. 
Accelerate  temperature rise 
Auto-monitoring and control  over ionic concentration 
Automatic removal  of blockage 
Zero-waste Manufacturing Center Facilitates Circular Economy 
In addition to proactively developing waste recycling  
technologies to recycle and reuse waste materials,  
TSMC initiated a project to build our first Zero-waste  
Manufacturing Center. Proposing a novel circular  
economy model, the project aims to purify waste  
resources into semiconductor-grade chemicalsthat  
will return to TSMC manufacturing processes. The  
recycled material will substitute for at least 30%  
of raw material demand. The project also plans to  
Case Study 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
TSMC acquired the support of  Central Taiwan Science Park to  initiate plans for the Zero-waste  Manufacturing Center  
TSMC Board of Directors approved  construction of the Zero-waste Manufacturing  Center in Central Taiwan Science Park 
Timeline for TSMC Zero-waste Manufacturing Center  
recover residual heat from waste resources as assisting  
energy, which will reduce energy demand in recycling  
processes, enabling TSMC to truly meet its sustainability  
goal of developing green manufacturing using green  
technologies.   
TSMC's first Zero-waste Manufacturing Center, which will  
be located in Central Taiwan Science Park, was approved  
by the Board of Directors in 2020. The construction  
work begins in 2021. Guided by the three principles of  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Construction work of Zero-waste  Manufacturing Center in Central  Taiwan Science Park begins to build 
Zero-waste  Manufacturing Center in  Central Taiwan Science  Park to officially begin  operations   
maximum waste reduction, optimal environmental  
benefits, and minimized management risk, the center  
is expected to reduce outsourced waste treatment  
by 140,000 metric tons each year and create NT 1.2  
billion of value in waste recycling and reduction. It will  
be our first facility based on circular economy model.  
The Zero-waste centers will gradually expand to be  
built in Hsinchu and Tainan as TSMC continues to  
pursue its sustainability goals. 
Zero-waste  Manufacturing  Centers to be  established in other  science parks 
Audit and Guidance 
Committed to source reduction and achieving a circular  
economy, TSCM also takes full responsibility for the  
management of outsourced waste treatment through  
the Waste Treatment Vendor Sustainability Enhancement  
Project. For new vendor selection, TSMC has a cross- 
division team of experts and a comprehensive selection  
procedure to carefully choose outstanding vendors to  
work with. A document review and onsite operational  
inspection will be conducted in six dimensions . Qualified  
vendors are subjected to weekly and monthly document  
reviews and quarterly and annual onsite inspections.  
Eight dimensions covering 166 inspection items are listed  
in accordance with the Waste Treatment Vendor Annual  
Audit Plan. Lastly, vendor replacement is carried out  
based on the three dimensions stipulated in the Annual  
Evaluation for Waste Treatment Vendors.  
In 2020, TSMC audited over 55 waste treatment vendors  
on site, reaching a 100% inspection rate, and 79  
deficiencies were improved. The percentage of vendors  
evaluated as "excellent" and "good" has improved from  
36% in 2015 to 75%. The number of vendors certified  
for ISO14001 increased to 44, accounting for 80% of  
all vendors. In striving for excellence, TSMC initiated  
the Intelligent Waste Management Procedure with  
Full Traceability. Through the introduction of smart  
automation, manual inspections can be replaced with  
systematic management of suspicious activities through  
auto-detection and reporting. The procedure will  
enhance vendor sustainability as TSMC is committed to  
achieving green manufacturing. 
Waste Cleanup and Disposal Vendor Management Process 
Timeline for Waste Treatment Vendor Management 
In-house waste management Waste clean-up Treatment process monitoring Recycled product transport Recycled product flow 
Safety   Health Management 
   Established and activated a new waste  treatment vendor selection procedure 
   Executed Waste Treatment Vendor Annual Audit Plan 
   Founded TSMC GPS Satellite Fleet System 
   Announced standards for waste  treatment vendor annual evaluation 
Waste Control 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Vendor Selection 6 Main Aspects 
Corporate Scale  and Reputation 
On-site Facilities 
Violation Assessments 
   Initiated vendor ISO 14001  certification plan 
   Quarterly vendor onsite audit plan 
   Recycled product flow monthly tracking 
    Environmental Safety    Health Department 
    Purchasing  Department 
    Waste Management  Section 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Strengthen Waste Treatment Vendor  
Annual Audit Plan 
Safety   Health Management 
Maintenance Records 
Emergency Response Operating Management 
Air Pollution Prevention Fire Safety Management 
   Expanded coverage of onsite  monitoring equipment 
Vendor Inspection 8 Main Aspects 
Waste Management 
Wastewater Management 
   Established the batch declaration  cloud platform for disposal receipts 
    Industrial Safety and   Environmental Protection 
    Waste Management  Section 
   Established the Recycled Product Cloud Reporting Platform       
   Collaborated with vendors to host waste management practice forum 
   Completed the Automated Waste Disposal Declaration Platform 
   Enhanced TSMC GPS Satellite Fleet System 
   Activated the Intelligent Management Plan for Proper  Waste Treatment 
Operation Record 
Waste Flow Control and  Compliance with Management  Requirements 
Annual Evaluation 3 Main Aspects 
   Achieve the goal of 100% vendors  ISO 14001 certified 
Corporate Scale and Reputation 
    Environmental  Safety   Health  Department 
    Waste  Management  Section 
    Purchasing  Department 
    Legal  Department 
Waste Treatment Vendor Audit and  Guidance Results in 2020 
Note: Total score 100:   90 Excellent    90 Good   80    80 Average   70    70 Passed   60   60 Disqualified vendor 
Evaluation Results Note ISO-certified Waste Treatment Vendors 
Excellent Good Average Passed Disqualified vendor 
   Improve waste storage environment    Set regulations for waste treatment  vendor audits 35 Safety and Health Management  Air Pollution Management Wastewater Management Waste Management 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2020 Year 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
Onsite Environment  Operational Improvement Legal Compliance Correction Setting regulations   and procedures Deficiency Type Number of  Deficiencies 
Air Pollution  Management 
Waste  Management 
Safety and  Health  Management  
Wastewater  Management 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Set regulations to ensure correct use  of safety harness, helmet, and other  protective gear when operating at  height or exposed to noise 23 
   Improve onsite effluent discharge  labelling and wastewater pipe labelling 12 
   Increase inspection frequency at  sampling checkpoints onsite 9 
   Improve onsite operational records  and comply with the stationary  pollution source installation,  operating and fuel use permit 
   Amend waste disposal contracts to  comply with laws and regulations 
   Designate supervisors to specific  chemical operations 
   Correct waste storage area labelling  to comply with laws and regulations 
   Amend onsite operational records  and comply with the water pollution  prevention measures plan and permit   
Percentage No. of Certified Vendors 
23 32 36 38 44 
   Improve Globally Harmonized System  of Classification and Labelling of  Chemicals and safety data sheet (SDS)  conformity onsite 
In 2020, TSMC built an industry-leading intelligent  waste management procedure with full traceability.  Through multiple automated and intelligent projects,  TSMC strengthens management of three outsourced  areas of waste clean-up, treatment, and recycled  product transport and flow to continue improving  waste product life cycle management. 
Waste Clean-up: Enhanced Traceability  with Automated Declaration Platform 
In 2020, TSMC collaborated with the Environmental  Protection Administration (EPA) to establish the  Automated Waste Disposal Declaration Platform.  Along with TSMC s enhanced GPS Satellite Fleet  System, the real-time, comprehensive, automated,  
TSMC Leads the Industry to Embrace an Era of Intelligent Waste Management with  Full Traceability 
Automated Waste Disposal  Declaration Platform TSMC  GPS Satellite Fleet System 
Waste Clean-up  
Improvement Actions for the Intelligent Waste Management Procedure with Full Traceability in 2020 
Case Study 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Electronic  Disposal  Receipt 
Two-way Communication Platform 
Real-time,  comprehensive,  automated and highly  efficient  waste clean- up monitoring  procedure 
Automated    Disposal   Declaration 
Real-time Report on Clean-up Anomaly 
and highly efficient waste clean-up monitoring procedure,  it will save 16,000 hours of labor and 240,000 papers used  for receipts in 2021 at most. It increases accuracy and  efficiency for the industry in waste declaration. TSMC  was invited by EPA to share its experiences developing  the platform and shared a video on the Industrial Waste  Report and Management System website to encourage  others in the industry to follow suit. 
Waste Treatment: Replace Manual  Inspection with Advanced Technology    Smart Management 
Once waste enters a treatment facility, proper handling is of  utmost importance. TSMC started to upgrade the onsite remote  monitoring system at 6 key waste treatment vendors to replace  
Systematic  Management  of Liquid Waste  Inventory 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Treatment Facility  Management   Control  
Remote Monitoring System  Intelligent Recognition and  Anomaly Reporting 
Image  Recogni- tion 
License  Plate Recog- nition 
Intelligent  Management  Plan for Proper  Waste Treat- ment Execute onsite  handling and  anomaly  investigation 
Set treatment  procedure and  tracking checkpoints 
Machine Learning 
Recycled Product Transport and Flow  Tracking: Build Systematic Cloud Platform  and Convert from Monthly Declaration to  Itemized Reporting 
After waste is properly treated into products, transport  and flow are vital to the results of TSMC s model of  
conventional manual inspections. First, TSMC worked  with waste treatment vendors on stipulating checkpoints  in treatment processes and set up onsite equipment.  The system automatically tracks and integrates data,  images, and declaration information. In addition, it  supervises treatment processes and sends out anomaly  alerts through license plate and image recognition  technology. After that, TSMC carries out onsite anomaly  investigations and manages suspicious activities in  treatment processes based on the auto-detection and  report system mode.   
Artificial Intelligence 
Set up IT   tracking  system 
Send out  anomaly  alerts 
Big Data  Analysis 
Recycled Product  Flow Management    Control 
Itemized Cloud Reporting Real-time and transparent  transport tracing What 
a circular economy. TSMC launched a Recycled  Product Flow Cloud Reporting Platform in 2020 and  will require vendors to report on recycling product  transport and flow item by item instead of declaring  on a monthly basis in 2021. As the transport footprint  is more real-time and transparent, the life cycle of  waste is more comprehensively managed based on  full traceability. 
In 2020, TSMC hosted the first Waste Management  Practice Forum, providing a summary of regulatory  changes to serve as a basis for legal compliance. TSMC  also shared its management tips and experiences  with common deficiencies and deficiencies subjected  to penalties. Through face-to-face communication  with vendors on enhancing the management  procedure, vendors are also encouraged to  advocate it to their clients as a joint effort to achieve  environmental sustainability.  
Where Target of recycled  product sales 
Who Driver transporting  recycled products 
Time required  for transporting  recycled products 
Vehicle used to  transport recycled  products 
Type and weight of  recycled products  being transported 
Air Pollution Control  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Best Available Technology 
Adopt Best Available Technology to  control pollutants emitted through  operations and lower impact on  the environment 
Strengthen Monitoring of  Air Pollution Prevention  Equipment  
Leverage backup systems and  dual-track management, along  with pollutant monitors, to ensure  that equipment functions as  intended and to prevent abnormal  occurrences  
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
Note 1: As of 2020, the unit for unit air pollutant emissions is changed from 'L  8-inch equivalent wafer mask layer' to 'L 12-inch equivalent wafer mask layer'.  
Note 2: Increased the 2030 Sustainable Development Goal from 45% to a 50% reduction from the base year.  
Note 3: Abnormal occurrences are defined as equipment failure that cannot be repaired within 24 hours or abnormal emissions due to suspended use.  
   Reduce unit air pollutant emissions by 50%  (Base year: 2015) Note1   Note2 
   Reduction rate of volatile organic gases   98%   
   Report   1 case of abnormal occurrences to  supervising authorities Note3 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Reduce unit air pollutant emissions by 45%  
   Reduction rate of volatile organic gases   96%  
   Report   1 case of abnormal occurrences to  supervising authorities Note3  
   Reduction rate of volatile organic gases   98.3%  
   Reported 0 cases of abnormal occurrences to  supervising authorities  
   Reduced unit air pollutant emissions by 46%    (Base year: 2015)  
Target: 32% 
Target:   95% 
Target:   1 
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
TSMC is committed to air pollution control. In 2020, we  
were able to enhance volatile organic gases reduction  
rate to 98.3% and achieve our 2030 Goals ahead  
of schedule  because of the Low-efficiency Single  
Zeolite Rotor Concentrators Upgrade Initiative and  
the introduction of dual zeolite rotor concentrators to  
new facilities. This 98.3% significantly exceeds legal  
requirements of 90% from the Air Pollution Control and  
Emissions Standards for the Semiconductor Industry  
and the suggested reduction rate of 92% from the  
Environmental Protection Administration (EPA) in the  
Air Pollution Prevention Treatment Procedures 
Chemical  Storage Tank  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
First Stage Local Scubbers  Pollutant Source  Dual-Track Independent Monitoring System  Second Stage Central Treatment Facility  
Organic Process  
Dry Process  
Wet Process  
Wastewater  Tank 
Adsorption  
Best Available Technology 
Air pollutant emissions from the semiconductor industry  
are primarily comprised of acid alkaline gases and  
volatile organic gases. TSMC has adopted Separation  
BACT for Volatile Organic Gases. Through effective  
separation of emissions from sources and highly effective  
local scrubbers, TSMC is now managing air pollutants  
through multi-phase BAT to reduce unit air pollutant  
emission and build a sustainable future.  
Plasma   Wet  
Wet (Process site) 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Condensation  
Wet (Facility Site) 
Burn   Wet  
Facility Parameter Change Management System  NEW 
Electrostatic   Precipitation 
Thermal   Wet  
Emission from Sources and Multi-Phase BAT for pollution  
prevention. We continue to work with experts in the  
industry to advance prevention systems by introducing  
additional local scrubbers and improving terminal  
prevention facilities to ensure that air pollutant emissions  
meet or exceed government standards.  
In the first phase of source separation, newly-installed  
high-efficiency local scrubbers will be treating specific  
toxic gases, corrosive gases, flammable gases,  
perfluorocarbon greenhouse gases, and other acid   
Exhaust  Duct  
Acid and  Alkaline  Gases  
Acid and  Alkaline  Gases  
Volatile  Organic  Gases  
Central Scrubber with  High-efficiency  Washing Equipment  
Dual Zeolite Rotor  Concentrators  
Dual-Stage Wet  Scrubber  
alkaline gases. In the second phase, waste gases  
containing low concentrations of inorganic acid alkaline  
gases will be sent to the central scrubber, which is the  
terminal prevention facility, for second-phase water rinsing  
and neutralization treatment. For volatile organic gases,  
facilities determine whether condensing local treatment  
facilities are required based on boiling points. The exhaust  
will then be channeled into zeolite rotor concentrators. By  
classifying and separating exhaust gases from the source  
and utilizing second-phase treatment, we can effectively  
increase air emission treatment efficiency.  
Online Fluorine Gas  Monitoring  
Monitor Operating  Conditions  
Monitor Emission   
Online IPA  Monitoring  
Effective Source Separation-Local Scrubbers  
TSMC continues to expand on existing production capacity  
and accelerate R D progress. To prevent further air pollution  
from new processes and chemicals, TSMC established the  
New Tool and New Chemical Review Committee, comprised  
of personnel from the Corporate Environment Safety  
and Health Division, Industrial Safety and Environmental  
Protection Division, and Facility Division. The committee  
is responsible for reviewing the safety and environmental  
impact of new tools and chemicals. New chemicals must  
go through two stages of review. The first review verifies  
risks related to the new chemicals and establishes  
control measures, and determines the environmental  
impact of the new process or chemical based on its  
properties. During this stage, the review committee also  
assesses how to classify exhaust gases and which local  
treatment facilities to use. The second review is to assess  
environmental impact from production verification tests  
and establish the exhaust gas classification to serve as the  
standard when using the new chemical.  
Review Process for New Chemicals  
Process for  Identifying Risks  from New Chemicals  and Conducting  Experiments 
First Review  Experimental  Test Second  Review  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Facility  Operations    Monitoring  Center 
Assess human and  environmental  impact from  production  verification test  and establish  effective pollutant  classifications  BAT  
Facility  Operations    Monitoring  Center 
Production   Verification  Test  
Fabs must apply for a Management of Change before  
they become eligible for new chemicals that have already  
passed the second review. The Industrial Safety and  
Environmental Protection Division and Facility Division  
must first confirm the effectiveness of air pollution  
prevention equipment towards the new chemical before  
its deployment into mass production. In 2020, TSMC  
remained proactive in air pollution prevention and  
conducted 422 reviews for 239 new chemicals and 183  
new tools. In 2020, TSMC collaborated with suppliers  
to test new local treatment facilities with different  
mechanisms such as adsorption, burning, and wet  
electrostatic precipitation (Wet-EP). Local treatment  
equipment were evaluated for safety and performance by  
TSMC and for efficiency by a third-party. Intensive testing  
was conducted to ensure that local treatment equipment  
are able to deliver on-target pollutant reduction before  
they are introduced into pollutant treatment for specific  
semiconductor process.  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Review and  confirmation  from the Facility  Division and  Industrial  Safety and  Environmental  Protection  Division in all fabs 
Management   of   Change  
Facility  Operations    Monitoring  Center 
Mass   Production  
Local Scrubbers Categories  
Organic  Process 
Storage  Tanks 
Dry   Process 
Wet  Process  
Process  Semiconductor  Fabrication  
Wastewater  Tanks  
Ion Implantation  
Chemical  Storage Tank  
Epitaxial Dry  Etching 
PR Stripping  
Wet Etching  
Sputtering 
Sputtering 
Thin Film  
Thin Film  
Diffusion  
Dry   Etching  
Sulfuric Acid (H2SO4)  
Flammable Gases 
Flammable Gases 
Perfluorocarbons 
Perfluorocarbons 
Perfluorocarbons 
Corrosive Gases 
Corrosive Gases 
Corrosive Gases 
High Boiling  Point Organics  
Acid and  Alkaline Gases 
Nitrous Oxide (N2O) 
Toxic Gases  
Target   Pollutant  
Corrosive  Gases 
Corrosive  Gases 
Organic  Gases 
Thermal   Wet    Chemical Dosage 
Control  Technologies Equipment Reduction   Rate  
High- Temperature  Thermal Wet 
Condensation  
Electrostatic  Precipitation  
Wet    Chemical  Dosage (Facility Site) 
Wet    Chemical  Dosage (Process Site) 
Adsorption  
Plasma   Wet 
Specific High Boiling  Point Organics   95% 
Real-time Parameter Monitoring  
 Oxygen flow 
 Circulating water flow 
 Inlet pressure  
 Current amperage 
 Circulating water flow 
 Inlet pressure  
 Reactor temperature  
 Circulation water flow 
 Inlet pressure 
 Pressure difference  of local scrubber  
 Inlet pressure  
 Reactor temperature  
 Circulating water flow  
 Inlet pressure  
 Pressure difference  of local scrubber 
 Circulation water flow 
 Inlet pressure 
 Corona voltage 
 Inlet pressure  Corona current 
 Pressure difference  of local scrubber 
 Condensation  temperature  
 Pressure difference of  local scrubber   
 Circulating water flow 
 Inlet pressure 
 Natural gas flow  
Enhance Local Scrubber Performance  
TSMC adopts eight different types of local scrubbers to  
pre-treat high-concentration exhaust based on pollutant  
properties. The eight different local scrubbers include  
thermal-wet, burn-wet, plasma-wet, wet type in facility,  
wet type in process, adsorption, condensation, and high- 
temperature thermal scrubber. As TSMC continues to  
develop its manufacturing, the company also continues  
to collaborate with suppliers for new local scrubbers. In  
2020, TSMC started using Wet-EP local treatment for wet  
etching. Wet-EP local scrubbers use a corona technology  
that is highly effective against acid alkaline gases and can  
deliver  95% sulfuric acid (H2SO4) reduction. In 2020, our  
Zeolite Rotor Concentrators Milestones  Increasing Reduction Rate for Zeolite Rotor Concentrators 
scrubber with dosing system for acid alkaline gases from  
12-inch wafer fab became the first to extend the use of  
local treatment facilities from chemical storage tanks to  
wastewater tanks. By installing a highly efficient wet local  
Clean-gas-desorbing  zeolite rotor concentrators  in existing fabs 
2018 2019 2020 2021 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Introduced dual zeolite rotor  concentrators in new fabs 
Introduced parameter  optimization for  single zeolite rotor  concentrators   to existing fabs 
Introduced Low- efficiency Single Zeolite  Rotor Concentrators  Upgrade Initiative to  existing fabs  
high concentrations of wastewater tanks, the reduction  rate was able to achieve a 95%, thereby relieving the load  from central terminal treatment facilities. By upgrading  local treatment facilities and separating emissions from  the source, TSMC was able to achieve a 27% reduction in  ammonia (NH3) emissions from 2019 to 2020.  
Evolving Terminal Prevention  Facilities  
As air pollutant emissions evolve and increase with  process technology, TSMC has been working to improve  the performance of terminal prevention facility. In 2019,  volatile organic gases accounted for 34% of TSMC air  pollutant emissions, and we consider volatile organic gas  reduction to be a top priority. In 2020, TSMC collaborated  with prevention equipment suppliers to raise the reduction  standard for single zeolite rotor concentrators from 95% to  97%. To further improve adsorption, the concentrators will  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Introduced AI parameter  optimization for single  zeolite rotor concentrators  to existing fabs 
Introduced the Improvement  Program for Inefficient  Thermal Oxidizer of Zeolite  Rotor Concentrators to  existing fabs  
Reduction Rate 
also adopt a new and highly effective fiberglass substrate.  Between 2019 to 2020, a total of eight single zeolite rotor  concentrators were replaced as part of the Low-efficiency  Single Zeolite Rotor Concentrators Upgrade Initiative. We  intend to replace eight more low-efficiency single zeolite  rotor concentrators in 2021 to ensure the reduction rate  of volatile organic gases can exceed 97% steadily. In 2020,  a full roll-out was achieved  for the clean-gas-desorbing  zeolite rotor concentrators developed in 2017 in all 12- inch wafer fabs before 7nm process. All 12-inch wafer  fabs are now equipped with optimized parameters for  single zeolite rotor concentrators to ensure the average  reduction rate for volatile organic gases in all 12-inch wafer  fabs exceeds 98%.  
The Facility Division collaborated with prevention  equipment suppliers and adopted dual zeolite rotor  concentrators, which is an upgraded technology that  
Technological  Evolution 
    Low-Efficiency  Single  Zeolite Rotor  Concentrators  
    Inefficient  Thermal Oxidizer  of Zeolite Rotor  Concentrators  
95% 96% 97% 98% 99% 
    Low-Efficiency  Single  Zeolite Rotor  Concentrators  
    Single  Zeolite Rotor  Concentrators 
adds a new rotor concentration process after the exhaust  is adsorbed and burned by the first rotor concentrator.  After the second rotor concentration process, exhaust  will be channeled back into the first rotor concentrator  for processing. The repeated process achieves a 99.5%  reduction rate. As of 2020, Fab 15B and Fab 18A have  adopted dual zeolite rotor concentrators. In 2021, dual  zeolite rotor concentrators are expected to roll out to Fab  18B, Fab 12 P8, Advanced Backend Fab 6, and other fabs.  
In 2020, the average reduction rate of volatile organic  gases in TSMC reached 98.3%, enabling us to meet our  2030 Sustainable Development Goals ahead of schedule.  The reduction is a testimony to our commitment to air  pollution reduction.  
    AI Parameter Optimi- zation for Single Zeolite  Rotor Concentrator  
    Clean-Gas-Desorbing  Zeolite Rotor Concen- trator 
    Parameter Optimiza- tion for Single Zeolite  Rotor 
    Dual Zeolite Rotor  Concentrators 
Metric tons 
TSMC uses scrubbing towers and regular demister layer  
treatment approaches against acid  alkaline gases. To  
improve the overall efficiency of terminal prevention  
facilities, in 2020, the Facility Division and the  
Industrial Technology Research Institute collaborated  
to design a High-efficiency Acid and Alkaline Scrubber.  
This new scrubber is equipped with a high-efficiency  
demister, airflow distributor, and filter. Regulations for  
packed layers, sprinklers, and Raschig rings were also  
updated. Fab 18B is set to be the first to acquire the  
new scrubber in 2021.  
Total Emission and Air Pollutants  Emissions per Unit of Production 
Note 1: TSMC air pollutant emissions were reported in accordance with    local laws and regulations. Note 2: Air pollutant emissions  include the total emissions of eight gases:  hydrocarbons (THC), sulfric acid (H2SO4), hydorchloric acid (HCl),  nintric acid (HNO3), hydrofluoric acid (HF), phosphoric acid (H3PO4),  chlorine (Cl2), and ammonia (NH3). 
Ammonia Total Hydrocarbons 
Sulfric Acid Hydrofluoric  Acid 
300.2 295.2 309.3 298.4 299.6 
2016 2018 2020 Year 2017 2019 
0.87 0.72 0.69 0.62 0.50 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Phosphoric Acid Unit Air Pollutant Emissions 
Nintric Acid 
g 12-inch equivalent wafer mask layers 
Hydorchloric Acid 
Note : Figures from TSMC Fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing),  and VisEra. Data excludes WaferTech as there is no total hydrocarbon  monitor to provide any record of reduction rates. 
In 2020, the Facility Division also collaborated with the  
Corporate Environment Safety and Health Division to  
establish a Stack Emission Baseline. TSMC implemented  
mitigation measures for stack emissions and monitor  
results regularly. As a result of the aforementioned  
reduction efforts, unit air pollutant emission (L 12- 
inch equivalent wafer mask layer) in 2020 was reduced  
by 46% against the base year of 2015, meaning that  
we achieved the 2030 Goal of 45% reduction ahead  
of schedule, and have therefore increased the 2030  
Sustainable Development Goals to a 50% reduction  
from the base year. 
Annual Reduction Rate of Volatile  Organic Gases  
Average Reduction Rates of TSMC (including subsidiaries) 
Average Reduction Rates of Subsidiaries Average Reduction Rates of Taiwan Facilities 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Year 2016 2018 2020 2017 2019 
96.4 96.9 97.8 
Feasibility 
Improve Air Pollution Prevention  Technologies  
TSMC continues to explore ways to achieve air  pollution reduction and improve the performance of  air pollution prevention equipment. Before introducing  new prevention technologies, we assess viability  in terms of space, safety, and economics. In 2020,  TSMC introduced three new technologies: High- efficiency Acid and Alkaline Scrubber, Improvement  Program for Inefficient Thermal Oxidizer of Zeolite  Rotor Concentrators, and AI Parameter Optimization  for Single Zeolite Rotor Concentrators. To achieve our  goal of smart manufacturing, we began applying smart  
Prevention Technology Feasibility   Reduction Effectiveness Evaluation 
Wet Process  with High  Efficient  Filter  Equipment 
AI Parameter  Optimization  for Single  Zeolite Rotor  Concentrartors 
Wet Local  Scrubber of  Waste Water  Tank with  Dosing System 
Wastewater  Tank with Wet  Local Scrubber Improvement  Program for  Inefficeient  Thermal  Oxidizer of  Zeolite Rotor  Concentrators 
Parameter  Optimization  for  Single  Zeolite Rotor  Concentrators 
Central  Scrubber  With  Hydro- Membrane 
High  Efficiency   Acid and  Alkaline Scrubber 
parameter tuning to air pollution prevention facilities  for single zeolite rotor concentrators. Concentration  level at entry, temperature, air flow, and other external  parameters are imported into the tool so that it can  automatically set the optimal burning temperature,  desorption temperature, rotor revolution, and other  operating parameters. By stimulating functions and the  artificial neural network, we can enable equipment to  recommend optimal settings for maximum reduction  of volatile organic gases. TSMC completed preliminary  testing and found that optimal desorption flow and  rotor revolution will be able to increase the reduction  rate of volatile organic gases of single zeolite rotor  concentrators to 98% or more. 
Center  Scrubber  With Bubble  Cap Column 
Clean-Glass- Desorbing  Zeolite Rotor  Concentrators 
Inependent  Central  Scrubber  Connecting  Washing  Tower 
Dual Zeolite  Rotor  Concentrators 
Facility Parameter Change Management System  
Strengthen Monitoring of Air  Pollution Prevention Equipment 
TSMC works to actively improve equipment efficiency, and  is strengthening stability and monitoring of air pollution  control equipment to ensure compliance with local rules  and regulations. All air pollution prevention equipment  are equipped with "N 1" (at least one) backup system(s)  and an uninterruptable power supply system to guarantee  continuous operation. In order to maintain continuous  emissions monitoring, prevention equipment is also  equipped with comprehensive alert systems, including  a dual-track independent monitoring system that is  immediately activated upon system failure. The system  will alert the Facility Monitoring and Control Center and  Industrial Safety Emergency Response Center to repair  equipment or switch backup systems.  
Due to rapid advances in process technology, 12-inch  wafer fabs use different fabrication processes, emit  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Central Treatment  Facilities 
12-inch Wafer Fabs  
Local Scrubber  
different pollutants, and require different local scrubbers.  
To ensure effective management over the parameters  
on local scrubbers, TSMC debuted the Facility Parameter  
Change Management System in 12-inch wafer fabs in 2020.  
The system can effectively manage operating parameters  
on local scrubbers and terminal prevention facility.  
The parameters will then automatically be compared  
to standard parameters at a fixed time every day to  
ensure prevention equipment are operating on optimal  
parameters. Inconsistent parameters will be automatically  
reported to the person in charge for system confirmation  
and to confirm stack emission in normal condition. With  
the addition of an early warning system, the Air Pollution  
Prevention Equipment Operation Status Platform, TSMC  
reported 0 abnormal occurrences in air pollution prevention  
equipment to supervising authorities in 2020.  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
for Central Treatment Facilities  
Monitoring System for  Local Scrubber  
Monitoring System   
Operating parameters sent daily to local data center  to be compared with standard parameters 
Monitoring system compares operating parameters and standard value daily 
Industrial Safety Emergency Response Center. Facility Monitoring   Control Center.  
Internet Internet 
Real-time Local  Data Center  
Parameter Change    Management Database  
Achieving 45% Reduction Goal for Unit Air Pollutant Emissions Ahead of Schedule by  Introducing a  Management Mechanism for Stack Emission Baseline  
TSMC believes in "Zero Emissions"and is committed to  reducing air pollutant emissions. In order to maintain  high efficiency in air pollution prevention equipment,  TSMC introduced the Facility Parameter Change  Management System to monitor optimal operating  parameters and also consistently monitor and control  concentration levels at the stack emissions. We are  deploying a two-method approach   emissions  separation at the source and improving performance of  terminal prevention facilities   to reduce concentration  levels in our emissions.  
In 2020, the Facility Division and Corporate Environment  Safety and Health Division collaborated to introduce the  Management Mechanism for Stack Emission Baseline.  The air pollutant baseline was developed by gathering  data on emission concentration levels at stack emissions  in TSMC Fabs in Taiwan. We discovered that the  concentration level of volatile organic gases exceeded  regulatory standards from cross-contamination in  exhaust duct. Stacks generally employ a regenerative  thermal oxidizer that uses shared exhaust duct, which  can result in cross-contamination. As such, we were only  able to achieve a 95% reduction in volatile organic gases  for regenerative thermal oxidizers, which still has room  for improvement when compared to the 98% for direct- fired thermal oxidizers.  
Case Study  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
In order to target exhaust ducts with high concentration levels,  TSMC launched the Improvement Program for Inefficient  Thermal Oxidizer of Zeolite Rotor Concentrators in 2020  to replace regenerative thermal oxidizers with direct-fired  thermal oxidizers, a single pathway oxidizer. Condensation type  scrubbers were also installed at the pollution source to capture  organic matter with high boiling points and drastically reduce  concentration levels in stack emission from terminal prevention  facilities. In 2020, upgraded regenerative thermal oxidizers  achieved an average of over 98% reduction in volatile organic  gases. In addition to deploying the Renovation Program for Air  Pollution Prevention Equipment to replace expired terminal  prevention facility for stacks with exceeding acid  alkaline gases  emission baseline, TSMC is also investigating pollutants from the  source, implementing the Roll-out Program for High-Efficiency  Local Scrubbers, and regularly monitoring progress.  
In 2020, TSMC carried out three programs to target 79 stacks that  exceeded concentration baselines. A total of 36 exhaust ducts  were renovated and inspected. A budget will be allocated to  continue renovating the remaining stacks.  
By implementing the Management Mechanism for Stack  Emission Baseline and renovating stacks that exceed the  concentration baseline, TSMC achieved 46% (L 12-inch  equivalent wafer mask layer) reduction in unit air pollutant  emission from the base year of 2015 and was able to achieve our  2030 Sustainable Development Goals ahead of schedule.   
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Management Mechanism for Stack Emission Baseline 
Mitigation Measures for High Concentration  Levels 
Collect Data on Stack Emission Concentration  Levels from  All Taiwan Facilities 
Establish Stack  Emission Baseline  
Concentration  Levels 
Zeolite Rotor  Concentrators   Improvement  Program for Inefficient  Thermal Oxidizer 
Stack Emission from All Taiwan Facilities 
Renovation Program for  Air Pollution Prevention  Equipment  
Stack Emission Baseline  
Exceeded Standard 
Roll-out Program  for High-efficiency  Local Scrubbers  
An Admired Employer 
Employees are TSMC's most important asset. We value mutual commitments with  our employees. We dedicate ourselves to creating a challenging and enjoyable work  environment full of opportunities to acquire new skills, establishing an open-style  management system, providing compensation and benefits packages that are above  the industry average for employees, and becoming a world-class company that our  employees are proud of. 
Recruited 8,193 new  employees around the  world with competitive job  opportunities 
 Talent Attraction and Retention P.130 Talent Development P.140 Human Rights P.145 Occupational Safety  and Health P.150 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
New Employees 
In payroll and employee  benefits globally 
Billion(NT   
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Reinforced occupational  safety and health to ensure  zero cases of occupational  hazards from chemical  exposure 
Talent Attraction  and Retention 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Bolster Employee Commitment 
   Fulfill core values and business  philosophy 
   Provide competitive  compensation packages 
   Fill over 50% of vacancies through internal  transfers Fulfill Internal Transfer Policy  Note4 
Maintain Healthy Turnover Rate  
Strengthen Industry- Academia Cooperation with  Semiconductor Program 
   Underscore on-the-job training  with systematic job rotations 
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
Note 1: For more details, please refer to 4. Employee Commitment. 
Note 2: In 2020, TSMC expanded external recruitment due to growing labor demands and therefore only 45.2% of vacancies  were filled through internal transfers, missing the 2020 target of 50%. TSMC will continue to facilitate internal transfers  and strive towards the goal of "Over 75% of manager positions shall be filled through internal promotions".  
Conduct Employee Opinion Survey on Core Values  every two years and reinforce core values 
   Fill over 75% of manager positions through  internal promotions 
   Maintain position above 75 th percentile among  industry peers in total compensation 
   Fill over 50% of vacancies through internal  transfers 
   Maintain total turnover rate between 5% 10%     Total turnover rate: 5.3%        
   Less than 10% new hire (  1 year) turnover rate  
   Promote diverse industry-academia  cooperation with internships, competitions, and  the comprehensive Semiconductor Program  on device integration, process module, and  equipment engineering. Welcome 5,000  students from global universities and graduate  programs to enroll in aforementioned events 
   Ensure that over 95% of employees are fully  committed to their work 
   Ensure that over 95% of employees are willing to  continue to work for TSMC in the next five years 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
   Continue to maintain a position in the 75 th  
Reinforce core values based on the 2020  Employee Opinion Survey on Core Values results,  conduct the 2021 Employee Engagement Survey  to increase employee engagement, and strive  towards our commitment to sustainability 
   Maintain total turnover rate between 5% 10% 
   Strengthen onboarding training and culture  integration to ensure  15% new hire (  1 year)  turnover rate 
   Promote diverse industry-academia cooperation with  internships, competitions, and the comprehensive  Semiconductor Program on device integration,  process module, and equipment engineering.  Welcome 3,500 students from global universities  and graduate programs to enroll in aforementioned  events 
   Fill over 75% of manager positions through  internal promotions NEW 
percentile among industry peers in total  compensation 
Note 3: For more details, please refer to 2.1 Employee Turnover. 
Note 4: Related explanation on Fulfill Internal Transfer Policy has been moved from Talent Attraction and   Retention to Talent Development in consideration of the scope and definition of the subject. 
   According to the Labor Market Research Report,  the total compensation of employees in TSMC is  above the 75 thpercentile  
2020 Employee Opinion Survey on Core Values  Note1  
   Over 95% of employees were willing to continue to  work for TSMC in the next five years     
   45.2% of job vacancies were filled through internal  transfers Note2   
   79.3% of manager positions were filled  through internal promotions 
  Target 2,000 students 
   New hire (  1 year) turnover rate: 15.7% 
   Promoted diverse industry-academia cooperation  with internships, competitions, and the  comprehensive Semiconductor Program on device  integration, process module, and equipment  engineering. Welcomed 2,000 students from global  universities and graduate programs to enroll in  aforementioned events 
   96% of employees were fully committed to their work  
Target: 95% 
Target 95% 
Target: Above the 75 th percentile 
Target:   50% 
Target 5% to 10% 
Target   13.5% 
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
In TSMC's strategy of talent attraction and retention,  
industry-academia cooperation is mainly structured  
through the Semiconductor Program on device  
integration, process module, and equipment  
engineering. Beginning in 2021, the Semiconductor  
Program will be expanded to include information  
engineering so that students from different departments  
may also enroll and potentially become semiconductor  
professionals for the local semiconductor industry.  
TSMC also intends to attract and retain talents, bolster  
employee commitment, and support long-term company  
growth by maintaining our status as a leading employer.  
Shared Visions and Values Recruitment Criteria 
"Putting the right people with shared visions and values  in the right positions" has always been TSMC's guideline  for recruiting talents, designing compensation packages,  managing employee performance, and developing  training programs. We are committed to our declaration  of Diversity and Inclusion at TSMC and all employees at  TSMC are treated equally regardless of gender, religion,  race, nationality or political affiliation. With shared  vision, we work toward a common goal under a common  commitment. With shared values, we abide by a common  set of values and a unified code of conduct. By putting  the right person into the right position, TSMC enables  its employees to contribute to the Company where they  are most needed and allows employees to develop  with the company, thereby generating success for both  employees and the Company. 
To hire people with shared visions and values, TSMC  prioritizes character and capability over professional  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Note: For more details on TSMC's partnership with universities, please  refer to the Innovation Management section of this report. 
skills when assessing candidates. Due to the Company's  expansion and business needs in recent years, mobility  has become an important criterion as well. To this end,  TSMC has developed a number of selection criteria  on integrity, resilience, initiative, innovation, decision- making, and other qualities. Candidates shall be evaluated  by selection criteria assessment and interviews.  
Responding to technological changes and the rise  of a new generation of talent, TSMC recognizes that  only through proactive measures in talent incubation,  recruitment, and retention, can the Company tap into  employees' capabilities in R D, manufacturing, and  service to thereby sustain TSMC's long-term competitive  advantages in the face of global competition and  challenges. Furthermore, considering that TSMC  operations are largely based in Taiwan, TSMC is aiming to  develop high-quality talents for Taiwan's semiconductor  industry. To such ends, TSMC has cooperated with  prestigious universities in Taiwan to design the  comprehensive Semiconductor Program that will  contain theoretical and practical courses. The Program  was first launched in National Tsing Hua University and  has since spread to National Taiwan University,  National  Cheng Kung University, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung  University, National Taipei University of Technology, and  National Taiwan University of Science and Technology  in 2020. In 2021, TSMC will be collaborating with world- leading IT companies to expand the Program to include  credited information engineering courses that integrate  theory and practicum. The goal for 2030 is to have 5,000  students around the world participate in our industry- academia programs. 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
promoted more than their male counterparts at a ratio  
of 1.11:1. 
Workforce Structure 
As of the end of 2020, TSMC has 56,831 employees  globally. Among them, 38,456 employees are managers,  professionals, and assistants while the remaining 18,375  are technicians. As the semiconductor industry is both  knowledge and technology-intensive, over 80% of our  managers and professionals hold a Master's degree or  higher. Around 90% of TSMC's employees are based  in the principal place of business, Taiwan, with the  remaining 10% in subsidiaries in Asia (including China,  Japan, South Korea, etc.), North America, Europe, etc.  
Female Workers 
Due to the nature of the semiconductor industry and  
local social cultural background, male employees  
account for more than 60% of employees and 80% of  
managers, professionals, and assistants at TSMC. Female  
workers are the pillars of production line technicians,  
with around 80% of the technicians being women. As  
TSMC's fabs become increasingly automated, there is a  
declining need for production line technicians, a group  
consisting mainly of female employees, which is leading  
to a gradual drop in the total percentage of female  
employees at TSMC. 
Despite the decline in the percentage of female  
employees in recent years, under fair selection  
mechanism, TSMC's female employees enjoyed a similar  
promotion ratio in 2020 with their male counterparts, at  
0.90:1, female section managers or above are generally  
Unit: % Female Workers  
Note: Junior management positions include first-line managers  top  management positions include Vice Presidents and higher, excluding  Chairman, board directors, and CEO. 
TSMC cares about diversity and inclusion. We are striving  
towards gender equality and we continue to spotlight  
issues relating to female workers. Every employee's  
desire for personal pursuits is respected and we also  
seek for different solutions. We welcome women to join  
the TSMC family and we will ensure that female workers  
are retained for the long-term so they can live up to their  
full potential and make valuable contributions to TSMC  
and society. 
Total Percentage of Female Workers 
Female Workers in Top Management (the Management Team) 
Female Workers in Junior Management  
Female Workers in Management 
12.8 13.0 13.6 13.6 13.7 
2016 2018 2020 Year 2017 2019 
39.3 38.7 37.8 37.1 
12.3 12.6 12.5 10.0 
Workforce Structure Compensation Ratio by Gender 
Note: The total of 56,831 employees only includes regular employees and contractors expected to become regular employees. In addition to the two groups mentioned, TSMC employs 284 contractors, who are not included in the figures  listed in the Global Workforce Structure. Contractors include employees with disabilities (269 individuals) and employees for special projects or short term support (15 individuals). 
Category Male 
Employment  Status 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Professionals 
Assistants 
Technicians 
North America 
Bachelor's 
Other Higher Education 
High School 
Contractor 
Group Employees Group Percentage (%) Employees 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
734 5,857 10.3 
5,318 27,767 48.9 
962 4,832 8.5 
14,081 18,375 32.3 
18,950 51,219 90.1 
1,632 3,940 6.9 
493 1,620 2.9 
4,960 15,056 26.5 
9,138 25,453 44.8 
5,876 13,152 23.1 
1,043 2,897 5.1 
247 2,504 4.4 
5,195 26,563 46.7 
5,718 14,622 25.7 
3,901 5,586  9.8 
6,034 7,556 13.3 
21,092 56,825 100.0 
Group Percentage (%) 
Employees Percentage of Total Employees (%) 
Subtotal and Percentage by Group 
North America,  Europe, Japan,  and South Korea 
Region   Subsidiary Position Male Female 
Managers 1 0.97 
Professionals 1 
Assistants 1 
Technicians 1 
1 Professionals 
Assistants 
1 Technicians 
Professionals 
Professionals 
Assistants 
Technicians 
Professionals 
Assistants 
Technicians 
Talent Recruitment 
Recruitments at global branches are mainly through  
local hiring. However, in the principal place of business,  
Taiwan, we must consider technological development  
and diversity. Therefore, we target recent graduates and  
overseas professionals for more professional positions.  
This contributes to a diverse and inclusive talent pool and  
also fulfills the Company's long-term development needs.  
Campus Recruitment 
TSMC's core values, corporate culture, and world- 
leading business performance has again warranted  
our placement on top of the 2021 Top 10 Most Admired  
Companies to Young Generations list by the Cheers  
magazine. In 2020, to align with the Company's growth,  
TSMC expanded recruitment and introduced 7,322 new  
hires in Taiwan and 8,193 new hires around the world.  
Among them, 79.5% of all new hires are below the age of 30. 
Recruitment in Taiwan was through official website,  
campus recruitment, intern programs, JDP (Joint  
Development Program), RDSS (Research Development  
Substitute Services), social media, and more. Our  
Internship Program is a major annual program in Taiwan  
which, in recent years, has been expanded to TSMC North  
America, TSMC (China), and TSMC (Nanjing). In addition  
to recruiting intern candidates through referrals by  
professors, campus department offices, and employees,  
we reach out to potential candidates through social  
media and face-to-face job fairs on campus. 
In 2020, TSMC launched the DNA Program which revolves  
around the following three targets: Develop, Navigate,  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
and Advance Offer. The Program offers diverse learning  
activities and actual project engagement to give interns  
the opportunity to explore themselves and learn about  
the semiconductor industry and related technologies  
as well. TSMC held 18 lectures, course programs, and  
workshops in 2020, offering interns with a wealth of  
diverse learning experiences. Outstanding interns were  
awarded an advance offer to TSMC upon graduation,  
contributing to success for both students and the  
In 2020, the world was largely impacted by the COVID-19  
pandemic. Taiwan remained relatively unaffected and  
so, with disease prevention measures on hand, TSMC  
continued to host the Summer Internship Program for  
Taiwan fabs and recruited 347 interns, of which 30%  
(105 interns) were female students. After the internship,  
114 interns received advance offers after evaluation,  
accounting for 33% of total participants. Among them,  
25% were female. The percentage of female students  
participating in the internship program, receiving  
advance offers, or joining TSMC are higher than the  
current percentage of female professionals at TSMC  
(19.2%). This shows that TSMC continues to strive  
towards gender equality in the workplace. Unfortunately,  
due to the pandemic, Intern Programs at TSMC North  
America, TSMC (China), and TSMC (Nanjing) had to be  
scaled back. A total of 42 interns were recruited, of which  
14.2% (6 interns) were female students. 
TSMC's internship program allows students to familiarize  
themselves with the industry and identify a domain  
of interest for further progression. Students can then  
register for semiconductor-related courses when they  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
New Employees 
Overseas Recruitment 
To sustain the Company's diversified talent pool and  recruit talent in special fields, TSMC has continued  
return to school, better adapt to the industry in the  
future, and reduce the transitional phase required for  
adapting to the workplace. As of 2020, an average of 40%  
of the interns from 2018 to 2019 have joined TSMC either  
through advance offers or regular recruitment, indicating  
that internship recruitment program is effective in  
attracting talent for TSMC at an early stage. 
Global TSMC Taiwan Facilities and VisEra 
4,040 3,686 3,663 2,323 
3,393 3,263 
2016 2015 2018 2020 Year Year 2017 2019 
Unit: People Unit: People 
Interns Receiving Advance Offers or Hired 
with the Overseas Talent Recruitment Program in  regions with a high density of semiconductor talents.  In terms of industry-academia cooperation, TSMC has  maintained close contact with MIT, Stanford University,  UC Berkeley, and other prestigious universities around  the world in recent years to incubate top research talents  and ensure early engagement with global talents for  future recruitment. TSMC is also consistently recruiting  experienced semiconductor professionals in key  technological hubs in the U.S., India, Canada, Japan, and  other European nations. 
Note: Data includes Taiwan Facilities. 
Total Interns Interns Receiving Advance Offers 
Interns Who Have Joined or Are About to Join TSMC 
Female Interns Who Have Joined or Are About to Join TSMC 
Female Interns Receiving Advance Offers 
Female Interns 
2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 
To be added 
Hire Disabled Workers in Taiwan 
According to Article 38 of the People with Disabilities  
Rights Protection Act in Taiwan, the number of disabled  
people with the capability to work shall be no less than  
1% of a company's total employees, and when a company  
employs a person with severe disabilities, that person shall  
be calculated as two. In addition, companies that do not  
employ a sufficient amount of people with disabilities shall  
periodically pay subsidies to the Disabled Employment  
Funds held by competent authorities for labor affairs at  
local municipalities and counties (cities) based on the  
deficient amount. The amount of the subsidies is based  
on the deficient amount of employed disabled workers  
multiplied by monthly basic wage. 
In line with the government's policies and regulations,  
Overseas Hires  Disabled Workers 
Taiwan Facilities VisEra 
2016 2015 2018 2020 Year Year 2017 2019 2016 2018 2020 2017 2019 
 Jia-Pu Li, Graduate Student at the Department of  Engineering Science, National Cheng Kung University 0 0 0 3 2 10 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Unit: people 
TSMC endeavored to provide job opportunities to  
those with disabilities. In 2020, we also maintained  
partnership programs with various universities in  
Taiwan to provide high-quality positions, such as  
Campus Recruitment Representatives, for disabled  
university students or graduates. 
In 2020 TSMC's fabs in Taiwan complied with regulations  
and employed a total of 367 new employees with mild  
or moderate disabilities, and 87 with severe disabilities,  
with the weighted ratio reaching 1% of total employees.  
In 2020, VisEra also provided vacancies for disabled  
candidates. However, due to the nature of available job  
vacancies, VisEra received a dearth of suitable applicants,  
leading to its failure to meet the 1% requirement, and has  
paid subsidies according to legal requirements.  
Disabled Workers Hired by Taiwan Facilities (ppl) 
Disabled Workers Hired by VisEra (ppl) 
Weighted Ratio (%) -Taiwan Facilities 
Weighted Ratio (%) -VisEra 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
1.0 1.0 1.0 1.1 
TSMC introduces mobile recruitment bus for the first time  to offer students with diverse interview experiences. 
TSMC Continues to Expand   Offer High-quality Jobs With  Comprehensive Disease Prevention Measures 
In 2020, COVID-19 impacted global industries.  
In response to the demand for increased output  
capacity and technological development, TSMC  
continued to recruit more employees for our fabs,  
especially in Taiwan. TSMC started adopting online  
recruitment and remote interviews beginning in  
March to offer a more flexible interview approach  
for candidates. This ensures that we can fulfill the  
rising demand for talents while also guaranteeing  
the safety and health of all those involved. TSMC  
held 4 campus recruitment webinars for senior  
students in college preparing to graduate in 2020.  
With the pandemic contained during the second  
half of 2020, TSMC relaunched some of the campus  
recruitment events, holding 18 interview sessions at  
6 universities throughout September and October.  
We also introduced a mobile recruitment bus for the  
Case Study 
first time to offer students with diverse interview  
experiences. In 2020, we hired 7,322 new employees  
at our fabs in Taiwan, which was 1.65 times the  
number of new hires in 2019. 
During the recruitment, TSMC continues to follow  
principles of "putting right people with shared  
visions and values in the right positions". We  
continued to adhere to internal interview standard  
scales and evaluations to ensure that all new hires  
maintain a shared vision. At the same time, TSMC  
provides orientation, training programs, buddy  
program and more to help newcomers to adapt to  
work environment and role faster. These practices  
encourage employees to stay with TSMC to push the  
envelope of technology together.  
 "When we saw TSMC's recruitment bus on  campus, I thought it was pretty cool. I had to  take this opportunity and see if I could become  a part of TSMC." 
Fulfill Internal Transfer Policy 
To help employees plan their career paths, TSMC is  
dedicated to enhancing the transparency of internal job  
opportunities, thereby encouraging internal transfers,  
allowing the right people to gravitate toward the right  
positions, and reducing turnover rates. In 2020, TSMC  
achieved 100% internal transfer completion rate.  
However, TSMC expanded external recruitment due to  
growing labor demands and therefore only 45.2% of  
vacancies were filled through internal transfers, missing  
the 50% target for 2020. TSMC does remain committed  
Historical Turnover Rates 
Note: In 2020, TSMC witnessed a large increase in new hires and therefore the  new hire turnover rate exceeded the originally anticipated 13.5%. 
New Hire Turnover Rate  
Turnover Rate  Voluntary Turnover Rate  
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Year 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
4.3 4.5 4.8 4.9 
Employee Turnover Rate 
To ensure talent mobility and long-term growth, TSMC  
firmly believes that a healthy employee turnover rate  
Historical New Employee Ratio 
to talent development and will promote employees  
with potential when necessary for organizational  
growth. 79.3% of manager positions were filled through  
internal promotions, reaching the annual target. TSMC  
will continue to strive to fulfill internal transfers and  
promotions to meet rising demands from organizational  
growth but also a need for personal career development. 
New Hires (ppl) Compensation and Benefits of Tota Global Employees  Average Compensation and Benefits per Person of Total  Global Employees 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Year 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Year 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Year 
2,323 3,663 15 
New Hires Ratio (%) Historical Vacancies Filled by Employees Ratio  
Compensation and Benefits Competitive Compensation Package 
TSMC provides competitive compensation packages  
to attract and retain the best talents, and to reward  
employee performance and encourage long-term  
contribution. Our packages include a base salary,  
Historical Vacancies Filled by Employees  
Note 1: The figures for 2016 2017 cover TSMC's Taiwan fabs, while those for  2018 2020 cover both TSMC's Taiwan fabs and its subsidiaries. Note 2: Due to a large number of new vacancies and external recruitment  expansion projects between 2019 and 2020, the percentage of  vacancies filled through internal transfers was significantly lower in  2019 and 2020 than it was between 2016 and 2018. 
should be between 5% and 10%, which has thus become  
the Company's long-term goal. In 2020, TSMC's employee  
turnover rate was 5.3%, which is in line with what we  
believe to be a healthy turnover rate. 
62.2 63.4 64.7 
Compensation and Benefits Expenses 
allowance, employee cash bonuses, and profit-sharing  
schemes. The total compensation of an employee  
is determined based on individual expertise, job  
responsibility, performance, commitment to long-term  
contribution, and the Company's operations and profit. 
As TSMC continues to grow in revenue and profit, we have  
increased total compensation and benefits for employees  
from around NT 99.7 billion to NT 140.8 billion between  
2016 and 2020, and average compensation and benefits  
for employees from around NT 2.12 million to NT  2.48  
million during the same period. 
2.122 2.144 2.478 2.219 2.143 
108,215 104,130 
Unit: NT  million 
In 2020, TSMC's revenue and profits reached new record  
highs. The cash bonus and profit-sharing scheme allocated  
for Taiwan facilities was valued at NT 69.5 billion. In 2020,  
the average total compensation for a new TSMC engineer  
with a master's degree was higher than NT 1.8 million  
including 12 months in base salary, 2 months in year-end  
bonus, cash bonuses and profit-sharing scheme. The  
average total compensation for direct labor was higher  
than NT 1.0 million, meaning the average monthly income  
is four times the minimum wage in Taiwan. 
Average and Median Compensation 
   In 2020, the median of global employees' annual compensation (excluding pensions and benefits)  was about NT 1.81 million, and the ratio between the total annual compensation of the CEO and  the median employee compensation was about 233:1. Considering the differences in compensation  structure across countries, the data of median annual compensation is based on the actual amount  paid to fulltime employees with full-year seniority. Average Compensation(NT ) Median Compensation (NT ) Full-time Employees (ppl) 
2019 2020 Year 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
NT  223,000 
2019 2020 2019 2020 
In addition, the Taiwan Stock Exchange requires all listed  
companies in Taiwan to disclose the number, the average  
and median compensation of full-time employees in  
non-executive positions and their respective differences  
against the previous year (as shown in the table below).  
The numbers are calculated in accordance with the  
regulations of the Taiwan Stock Exchange, which excludes  
executive officers (managers) and employees eligible for  
exemption. For those not employed with the Company  
for a full year, the data is prorated. And the profit-sharing  
amount is at profit-year basis therefore part of the  
compensation data is projected. 
NT  396,000 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
people 3,884 
We hope the Company can continue to grow in the future  
and so TSMC adjusted the salary structure for all formal  
employees in Taiwan facilities in January of 2021. Some  
variable pay items were recategorized into the base  
salary and each employee experienced a 20% increase  
in base salary, increasing monthly disposable income  
for entry-level employees. In addition to the salary  
structure changes, the annual salary adjustment for 2021  
commence as planned. TSMC believes that a competitive  
compensation can help the Company generate operational  
success and maintain a leadership position above industry  
peers in TSMC profits and overall compensation packages. 
Salary Raise 
   In order to maintain the competitiveness of our compensation, TSMC appropriately adjusts  employees' salaries annually, taking into consideration of the results of global salary surveys, market  salary scales, and economic indices in Taiwan and other overseas locations. 
   In April 2020, TSMC gave salary raises to all TSMC employees in Taiwan and abroad. The salary  increase rate was 3%-5% for employees in Taiwan, 7% - 8% for employees in China, and 3% - 5% for  employees in other regions. 
   The employee incentive programs take into consideration TSMC's financial and operational  performance, future development, and the operational performance of each subsidiaries, with  linkage to employee's job responsibilities and performance. The programs are implemented with  short-term and long-term incentive schemes according to local industry practices. 
   The incentive program of TSMC fabs in Taiwan is implemented over a period of two years. Cash  bonuses are paid quarterly to provide timely incentive and profit sharing is paid annually, in the  following year, to encourage long-term service and continuous contribution. The incentive programs  of overseas regions are either by annual cash bonus or by 1 to 3 years of long-term scheme. 
   In 2020, for TSMC employees, total compensation and benefits which includes salary, allowances,  cash bonus, profit sharing, pensions, and other benefits, totaled NT  140.8 billion. 
Corporate Officer Shareholding Guidelines 
TSMC believes that long-term shareholding by corporate  
officers can strengthen the link between corporate  
officers and shareholders. In 2020, TSMC established the  
Corporate Officer Shareholding Guidelines, requesting  
the Chairman, CEO, and other corporate officers to hold  
shares valued at a certain percentage of their annual  
base salary. Throughout their time at TSMC, corporate  
officers must maintain a certain value of shares as  
required by the Company. 
Note: Data includes Taiwan Facilities and VisEra 
Parental Benefits 
To provide sufficient support in their personal and  
work lives, TSMC offers employees parental leaves in  
accordance with local laws and regulations, sets up  
four kindergartens for fabs in Taiwan, and provides a  
comprehensive leave management system. Employees  
have flexibility in making use of their vacation days to  
take care of their children. Employees who need to take  
long leaves of absence for military service or severe  
injuries can also apply for unpaid leaves, and then apply  
for reinstatement after the expiration of the period, to  
fulfil both personal and family needs. 
In 2020, a total of 557 employees in TSMC's Taiwan  
facilities and VisEra applied for unpaid parental leaves,  
Newborns in TSMC 
Newborns in Taiwan Newborns in TSMC 
Newborns in TSMC (%) 
208,440 193,844 181,601 177,767 165,249 
1.3% 1.4% 1.5% 1.4% 1.5% 
2,700 2,682 2,721 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Year 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
2,531 2,469 
To provide sufficient support in their life and work, TSMC sets up  four kindergartens for Taiwan facilities. 
and a total of 497 employees were scheduled to return  
from unpaid parental leaves, of which 392 employees  
returned either as scheduled or ahead of schedule,  
leading to a return rate of 78.9%. The retention rate,  
on the other hand, was 77.7%, since 306 out of 394  
employees who resumed duty in 2019 were still in service  
by the end of 2020.  
In addition, in 2020, the number of TSMC employees aged  
between 20 and 64 in Taiwan accounted for 0.33% of  
Taiwan's population of the same age group. Meanwhile,  
the number of employees' newborns was 2,469, which  
was 1.5% of the total number of newborns in Taiwan,  
an example of our outstanding benefits having positive  
contributions to society. 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Unpaid Parental Leave in TSMC's Taiwan Facilities and VisEra - Applicants, Return Rate,  and Retention Rate 
   Employees returned to work from  unpaid parental leave in 2019 
   Employees returned to work from  unpaid parental leave in 2019 and are  still in service at the end of 2020 
Application  Rate 7.4% 
(557 7,564) 
Return  Rate 78.9% 
242 People   
   Employees expected to return to  work after parental leave in 2020 
   Employees expected to return to  work in 2020 after parental leave and  returned as scheduled or in advance 
   Employees meet unpaid  parental leave criteria in 2020 
   Employees applied for unpaid  parental leave in 2020 
311 People Retention  Rate 77.7% 
(306 394)   
396 People   
312 People   
2,269 People   
409 People   
101 People 
5,295 People 
148 People 
TSMC values the well-being of its employees. The  company encourages employees to exercise regularly by  subsidizing 63 sports clubs, improving exercise facilities,  and holding regular sports events to help employees find  peers with similar sports interests for balance between  work and life. In 2020, TSMC was granted the Exercise  Enterprise Certification Award by Sports Administration of  the Ministry of Education. 
TSMC clubs are highly active Note 2. The clubs not only  participate in games hosted by Hsinchu Science Park, Central  Taiwan Science Park, and Southern Taiwan Science Park  Note 3 but also engage with other clubs in the community.  For example, the Ballroom Dancing Club of Hsinchu Science  Park was invited to participate in the end-of-year dance  
Benefits Better Than Statutory  Regulations 
To encourage employees to strive towards long-term  Company development, TSMC offers employees benefits  that are better than the statutory requirements and  regulations for benefits such as holidays, insurance,  pensions, financial assistance for emergencies, subsidies  for marriage  childbirth  funerals, and discounts in  designated shops. Furthermore, all TSMC facilities are  equipped with 24-hour health centers, where healthcare  management professionals and appointed on-site  physicians provide quality services beyond those required  by legal statutes. The health centers work with hospitals  and Employee Assistance Program services providers  to offer comprehensive support for the emotional and  physical well-being of our employees  Note 1. 
Note 1: For more details, please refer to the Occupational Safety and Health  section of this report. Note 2: WaferTech is based in the state of Washington in the U.S. To comply with  local Covid-19 regulations, WaferTech did not convene any sport-related  club activities in 2020. Note 3: Including the Hsinchu Science Park Competition, Central Taiwan Science  Park Games, and Southern Taiwan Science Park Friendlies. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
performance by Industrial Technology Research Institute  while the Softball Club at Southern Taiwan Science Park  hosts tee ball games during the weekends to teach local  children about softball and fulfill their social responsibility. 
Solid Pension System 
TSMC's employee pension system includes the Defined  
Benefit Plan under the Taiwan Labor Standards Act,  
the Defined Contribution Plan under the Taiwan Labor  
Pension Act, as well as the regulations of labor laws in  
overseas regions. In addition to statutory contributions,  
we commission professional accountants and  
consultants annually to conduct precise calculations of  
our Company's pension fund, so as to assure sufficient  
funding for employee pension payments in the future. 
Pension Allocation and Preparation 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Defined  Benefit Plans 
Defined  Contribution  Plans 
    TSMC provides a defined benefits plan based on an  employee's length of service and average monthly salary for  the six-month period prior to retirement under the Labor  Standards Act 
    The money was administered by the Labor Pension Fund  Supervisory Committee and deposited in the Committee's  name into a designated account with the Bank of Taiwan 
    In accordance with employee retirement guidelines set forth  in the Labor Pension Act in Taiwan, TSMC contributes to  employees' personal accounts in Bureau of Labor Insurance 
    TSMC's overseas subsidiaries also make monthly  contributions to the pension management department at a  certain percentage of the employee's base salary 
TSMC Practices Pension Status in 2020 
Rewarding Excellence 
TSMC recognizes and encourages employee performance  
through performance management, profit-sharing bonus  
system, development system, and promotion system. For  
outstanding technical talents, TSMC provides a dual career  
ladder system as an appropriate evaluation and recognition  
approach. To recognize outstanding scientists and  
engineers who have made prominent contributions to the  
Company's success with their personal expertise, TSMC has  
formulated the TSMC Academy Guidelines  to encourage  
a culture of continued growth and innovation, TSMC held  
the TQE (Total Quality Excellence  Innovation) Conference  
and TQE Awards  to praise the outstanding performance  
and contribution of internal instructors towards learning  
efficiency and teaching, TSMC offers the Excellent Instructor  
Award  the TSMC Excellent Labor Award recognizes  
    TSMC and VisEra contributed an amount equal to 2% of salaries paid each month 
    The fair value of TSMC's planned assets in Taiwan was NT 5,066,203,000 at the end of  2020. In accordance with the above provisions, the amount of recognized expenses  of TSMC in 2020 was NT  204,915,000. The amount of accrued pension liabilities to be  contributed in accordance with the law was NT  11,914,074,000 at the end of 2020 
    VisEra's pension reserve amount, at the end of 2020, was NT 2,160,799 
    TSMC in Taiwan made monthly contributions equal to 6% of each employee's  monthly salary to employees' pension accounts. The total amount of pension in  2020, including contributions from overseas subsidiaries, was NT 2,809,484,000 
entry-level workers with outstanding performances  and  
lastly, our Service Award is awarded in recognition and  
appreciation of senior employees and their long-term  
commitment and dedication. In 2020, with the CSR vision  
of bettering society in mind, TSMC held the first TSMC CSR  
AWARD to encourage employees to propose innovative ESG  
ideas and incentivize sustainability programs.  
In addition, TSMC encourages employees to compete for  
distinguished talent awards offered outside of the company.  
In 2020, a number of TSMC employees received national  
awards, including the Model Labor Award of various science  
parks, Outstanding Engineer Award, Excellent Young  
Engineer Award, Taiwan Continuous Improvement Award,  
and National Manager Excellence Award. 
2020 TSMC Excellent Instructor Award 
Talent is a critical component to TSMC's success  
and internal instructors are important drivers  
for fostering talents within the Company. The  
Excellent Instructor Award has been awarded  
to internal instructors for teaching excellence  
for 15 years now. We also hope that the award  
can encourage other outstanding colleagues to  
join the ranks of our instructors and share their  
experiences for more efficient teachings. A total  
of 63 instructors received awards from Dr. C.C.  
Wei, CEO of TSMC, at the 2020 awards ceremony.  
We also invited external presentation coaches  
to share some tips on teaching and the key to  
becoming a better instructor. 
Excellent Instructor Award 
Case Study 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Employee Commitment 
TSMC's four core values of integrity, commitment,  
innovation, and customer trust were defined since  
Founder Dr. Morris Chang established the company.  
Today, incumbent chairman Mark Liu and chief executive  
officer C.C. Wei carry on the legacy by requiring all  
employees to serve with the four core values of TSMC  
in mind. Through interactive websites, microfilms,  
employee-made films, conferences, lectures, and internal  
journalism, TSMC's leadership continuously engages  
with managers and employees to communicate the  
Company's vision, core values, and business philosophy  
as part of efforts to consolidate corporate culture, and  
deepen mutual commitment between the Company and  
its employees. 
To monitor employees' commitment to TSMC's core  
values and to the Company, TSMC conducts biennial  
surveys on how employees perceive the company's core  
values. The survey scope in 2020 included TSMC's Taiwan  
facilities, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), WaferTech Note,  
TSMC North America, TSMC Canada, TSMC Europe B.V,  
TSMC Japan, and TSMC Korea. The survey covered 97.9%  
of employees from TSMC   subsidiaries. For the 2020  
survey, the valid response rate was 86% with a total of  
52,464 surveys issued and 44,904 valid responses.  
The 2020 Employee Opinion Survey on Company Core  
Values contained the same four sections on integrity,  
commitment, innovation, and customer trust as the 2018  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
survey did. Each section contained five questions. In  
2020, the Employee Opinion Survey on Company Core  
Values scores were tallied through positive responses  
in which the total ratio of "strongly agrees" and "agrees"  
from a five-point scale will be tallied and presented as  
survey results.  
In two of the questions in the "Commitment" section, the  
2020 survey results showed that 96% of employees were  
fully committed to their work and making the Company  
better while 95% of employees were willing to continue  
to work for TSMC and grow with the Company in the  
next five years. The aforementioned questions are "8. I  
am willing to commit fully in my work to make TSMC an  
even more successful company." and "10. For the next  
5 years, I am willing to contribute my talents to TSMC  
and grow together with the Company. "Survey results  
for the" Commitment "section reached the 95% target  
previously set. 
Note: In 2020, WaferTech was included in the survey scope for the first time. VisEra  was not included in the survey due to its different industrial background 
Talent Development   
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Facilitate Self-learning  
Provide diverse learning resources  and channels to encourage self- learning among employees.  This will enhance individual  performance and potential  
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
   Non-required courses on the e-Learning Platform  offered by the Self-Directed Learning Program  shall register a usage rate of at least 60% 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
   Self-learning shall account for no less than 50%  of learning programs designed for the specific  needs of organizations 
   The number of usage for self-learning resources  is no less than 50,000 
   Self-learning accounted for 64.4% of learning  programs designed for the specific needs of  organizations  
NEW    The number of usage for self-learning resources  over 50,000 
   Continued to support new fab personnel  in achieving a 100% completion rate for  courses such as "Advanced Training on Wafer  Processes", "Physics of Semiconductor Devices",  "Professional Development for Process  Engineers", and "Four Lessons on Quality"  
Target: 50% 
Target: 100% 
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
The 2030 sustainable development goal of Talent  
Development at TSMC is aimed at ensuring that  
employee skillsets remain relevant, supporting long-term  
TSMC growth, and promoting lifelong learning among  
employees. In the next decade, TSMC will enhance on-the- 
job training, offer diversified learning resources, and build  
comprehensive self-learning programs to promote self- 
learning among employees, enhance the learning agility  
of organizations, and help employees grow. To these  
ends, TSMC has formulated the strategy to promote self- 
learning. Furthermore, since self-learning has accounted  
for more than 64.4% of learning programs, the Company is  
setting new goals aimed at encouraging employees to take  
advantage of online elective courses. In addition, TSMC  
has also established a talent development framework and  
encourages employees to rotate within the organization  
to develop comprehensive capabilities.  
Fulfill Talent Development  
Promoting self-directed learning is the important strategy  
for talent development at TSMC. To facilitate self-learning,  
TSMC is dedicated to raising employee awareness on self- 
learning and encouraging them to use diverse learning  
resources and tools. Employees are encouraged to engage  
in learning activities that align with the Company's growth,  
organizational needs, and personal performance at any  
time or place and of any form. Employees should continue  
to progress their self-efficacy at work and galvanize energy  
for Company growth and social progress. In addition,  
TSMC has proactively implemented on-the-job training  
and certification systems, allowing employees to learn  
and improve their work performance in the workplace.  
The Company not only systematically designs job rotation  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
programs to cultivate future talent, but also encourages  
its employees to complement their career plans with the  
Company's organization development, so as to allow them  
to utilize their talents and grow.  
Transparent System for Employee  Development and Job Rotation  
TSMC offers a comprehensive framework for employee  
development, whereby a dual career ladder system  
covering both management and technical positions allows  
employees to explore their full potential in either of the two  
types of positions according to personal characteristics  
and skills. For example, the selection process for TSMC  
Academy Fellows and Academicians identifies employees  
dedicated to scientific research and ensure that they are  
unencumbered by managerial tasks so that they can devote  
more time to breakthrough research and their fortes.    
Furthermore, the promotion system in the employee  
development framework is based on two major principles:  
transparency on internal vacancies and respect for  
employees' transfer decisions. It considers development  
potential as an important indicator for evaluating  
candidates for promotion. A handbook on promotion  
procedures and numerous relevant tools are offered to  
managers to help them assess candidate potential.   
In 2020, 34.3% of managers and 26.9% of professionals  
were transferred or rotated for individual development  
or due to organizational development. The Company's  
expansion led to an increasing number of new recruits in  
2020 and a reduced percentage of only 45.2% vacancies  
filled through internal transfers than the previous year.  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Human Resource Development Strategies 
Develop a comprehensive  employee development  framework, strengthen  HR-related systems and  supplementary measures, and  build an environment where each  employee is put in the position  that best suits their abilities 
Corporate Culture Legacy 
Strengthen employees'  commitment to TSMC's core  values and bolster TSMC's core  values as the company expands 
Dual Career Ladder  System 
Talent Mobility 
Facilitate talent mobility by  ensuring transparency on  internal vacancies, respecting  employees' transfer decisions,  and allowing employees to plan  for their own careers  
Enhance Management  Literacy 
Enhance management literacy  among management of all levels,  thereby strengthening employee  commitment 
Promotion Indicators 
Potential has been listed as one of  the indicators as the reference for  evaluating candidates for promotion  
Develop Capabilities 
Provide R D support and train  personnel for new fabs, offering  training courses on topics such  as process and physics. Help  employees advance their English  skills for the global market and  strengthen employee training and  development to ensure strong  employee capabilities  
Employee Development  
Uncover employees' potential and  create an environment that encourages  employees to pursue personal growth  
Learning Development  
Help organizations and employees  grow rapidly to adapt to changing  environments and fulfill the needs of  growing organizations    
               
               
While there is a decrease, TSMC remains dedicated to  
internal talent mobility and developing well-rounded  
leaders. Therefore, we will continue reinforcing the dual  
career ladder system, uncovering employee potential  
based on competencies and personal preference, and  
Employee Development Framework-Dual Career Ladder System  
Dedicated to technology or  other professional fields  
Responsible for organization  and personnel management 
Employees can continue to grow  or switch between management  positions and technical positions  according to personal aptitude and  organizational needs. Potential career  pathways for a junior-level technical   project manager can be found below:   
Management  Positions  
Strengthen professional skills and  advance into mid-level technical   project management positions  
Transition into management  roles and transfer into junior-level  management positions 
Transition into management  roles and advance into mid-level  management positions  
Technical  Positions  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Junior-level Technical   
Junior-level Managers  Mid-level Managers  Senior Managers  
Project Managers Mid-level Technical   
ensure internal job rotations by maintaining that 50% of  
vacancies shall be filled through internal transfers. Our  
commitment to internal job rotations is driven by our hope  
to meet rising demands from organizational growth but  
also a need for personal career development.  
Project Managers Senior Technical  Project Managers 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Key Development Objectives  
Dual Career Ladder System  
Develop a comprehensive employee  development framework, strengthen HR-related  systems and supplementary measures, and  build an environment where each employee is  put in the position that best suits their abilities  
Talent Mobility  
Facilitate talent mobility by ensuring  transparency on internal vacancies, respecting  employees' transfer decisions, and allowing  employees to plan for their own careers  
Promotion Indicator-Employee  Potential  
Potential has been listed as one of the  indicators as the reference for evaluating  candidates for promotion 
Strengthen Technical Capabilities  
Restructured the Technical Board to enhance  matrix management capabilities and tracked  progress for the five major tasks  
Recruiting Experts: Recruited a total of 15 technical  supervisors for special programs  
Assemble Expert Team: Selected 415 experts to form an  expert team that aims to resolve long-term engineering  issues across different fabs  
Resolve Long-term Engineering Issues: Resolved over 247  long-term engineering issues  
Host Technical Trainings: Held 1,058 technical trainings to  83,774 participants  
Clarified the differences between management jobs  and technical jobs, and introduced performance  appraisal and development procedures  
Provided different training courses for managers and  technical professional managers  
Regularly selected Fellow and Academician of TSMC  Academy to support the career development of  technical staffs  
Clarified the definition of "Potential" and its evaluation  method to make it one of the criteria for promotion  
Completed the promotion procedures handbook  and related tools to help managers conduct potential  evaluation for employee promotion  
Talent Exchanges: 161 employees exchanged at different  fabs and conducted a learning journey that lasted six  months to one year  
Established related managerial policies of internal  job position transparency and job transfer  effectiveness among transfer procedures. Helped  managers better understand and implement  regulations via communication  
34.3% of managers and 26.9% of professionals  were transferred or rotated due to either individual  or organizational development  
2020 Enforcement Report  
Diverse and Equal Opportunities for  Learning and Development  
The Company's growth is inextricably connected to our  
employees' personal growth. Self-learning can not only  
enhance work performance but also give employees  
the opportunity to contribute to social progress in daily  
life. TSMC designs employee learning and development  
programs based on three key elements: goal, plan, and  
discipline. The Company is committed to building a  
diverse and equal learning environment that encourages  
Average Hours of Training per Employee  Historical Training Index  
Note: Due to the design differences between training systems, the average evaluation score excluded data from TSMC North America. 
Certified Internal Instructors  Total Training Hours  Trainees Who Completed Training  Average Evaluation Score of Course Satisfaction  
1,862 2,003 450,756 549,376 
623,711 639,852 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
2016 2018 2020 2017 2019 Year 
94 95 93 93 94 
1,629 1,694 
551,752 700,482 
continuous learning and offers rich content. It has also  
formulated the TSMC Employee Training and Education  
Procedures to integrate internal and external resources,  
enhance employee capabilities, and help employees and  
Company grow with society.  
TSMC's employees set individual development plans  
according to personal requirements, mid-year and year- 
end performance review, and career development goals.  
The individual development plans form one of the bases on  
which the Company's annual training program is designed.  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
741,178 926,379 
To ensure the effectiveness of training programs, TSMC  
measures the outcome with four levels of evaluation- 
reaction, learning, behavior, and results-based on the  
theory proposed by American scholar Donald L. Kirkpatrick.  
In 2020, employee performance assessment registered a  
completion rate of 100%. In the same year, TSMC provided  
over 920,000 hours of training programs and activities for  
learning and development to over 1 million participants.  
Each employee received, on average, over 16 hours of  
training and training expenses exceeded NT 95 million.  
Manager Indirect Labor Direct Labor 
2016 2018 2020 2017 2019 Year 
In 2020, all open courses were evaluated on the reaction  
level, including contents, instructor, administration,  
and satisfaction scores. The courses received an overall  
satisfaction score of 94 (the total score is 100). A total of  
850,000 participants completed 3,500 online courses and  
learning evaluations. 8% of the training courses were further  
evaluated on the behavioral level. Most on-the-job training  
offered by internal organizations were further evaluated  
at the learning and behavioral level, and evaluations at the  
results level have been built into the employee performance  
management and development system.   
Unit: Hour 
2020 Key Objectives for Learning and Development Programs  
To continue targeting the strategy of promoting self-learning, TSMC is assisting employees in advancing their studies in their professional domain while extending their reach to other domains. To reach to this goal, TSMC is offering self- 
learning resources for employees to learn at any time and place. 
100% Sign-ins to Online English Webinar 
Physics of Semiconductor Devices 100% 
 Advanced technical courses executed by fab-level  managers 
    Advanced Training on Wafer Processes  
    Professional Development for Process Engineers  
    Four Lessons on Quality  
    Physics of Semiconductor Devices  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Professional Training for Engineers  Junior-level Managers  Deepen engineers' junior-level managers' domain knowledge  in front-end back-end processes and instill quality awareness  through actual classes, self-learning ,co-learning, and hand- on operations  
Advanced Training on Wafer Processes 
Professional Development for Process Engineers 
Four Lessons on Quality 
2020 Enforcement Report  2020 Enforcement Report  2020 Enforcement Report  
Progress  Progress  Progress  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
    Launched mobile learning applications so that employees can use  mobile phones to engage Self-learning at all times  
    Strengthen functions on e-Learning platform to allow employees  to share and recommend courses among each other and foster a  culture of Self-learning  
    Launch a Self-learning Bar that offers specific subjects and  themed online learning resources  
6,500 Visits 
Self-learning  Develop mobile learning applications and e-Learning systems  that enable employees to learn at any time and place  
6,500 Visits to Self-learning Bar  
Mobile Learning Application  
E-Learning 2.0 
English program includes 
    Online English Webinar 
   English Workshops  
   One-on-one English Consultation 
   English Learning Website  
   English Book Fair 
English Skills  Strengthen TSMC employees' English skills to support our  goals of a globalized operation model and talent development  
Participants at English Workshops  
Usage Rate of One-on-one English Consultation 
Average Visit Day to the English Learning Website 
Increase in Language Books Sold 
Human Rights  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Enforce TSMC Human Rights Policy,  Responsible Business Alliance Code  of Conduct, and United Nations  Guiding Principles on Business and  Human Rights 
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
   Establish communication and reporting  channels for all employees globally and  establish a comprehensive system for  management and analysis 
   No material regulatory violations     
(penalty:   NT 1 million) 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
   Maintain 100% e-voting at labor-management  meetings in all Taiwan facilities 
   No material regulatory violations     
   Strengthen employee understanding of TSMC  Human Rights Policies and ensure it is applied  into the workplace through full employee  engagement in online courses 
1.    95% employees complete trainings  
2. 100% passing rate in post-class  
(penalty:   NT 1 million) 
   No material regulatory violations     
   All of TSMC's Taiwan facilities adopted an  e-voting system for the election of new labor  representatives and list e-voting systems as the  only voting method for all future elections of the  same kind  
(penalty:   NT 1 million)  
Target: All of TSMC's Taiwan facilities shall adopt an e-voting  system for the election of new labor representatives and  list e-voting systems as the only voting method for all future  elections of the same kind 
Target: No material regulatory violations  
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
2018 2020 2019 0 
Human Rights Policy 
TSMC believes that respecting human rights and  
creating a respectful workplace is critical to TSMC and  
our suppliers. To ensure comprehensive human rights  
actions, TSMC formulated the Human Rights Policy in 2020.  
Human Rights Governance   
Human Rights Policy is the highest guiding principle  for planning, execution, review, and action for all  human rights governance in TSMC. Across all global  sites and facilities, operational supervisors shall  work with senior executives in HR, Information  Technology and Materials Management   Risk  Management, and Legal organization and take  
charge of human rights topics.  
Human Rights Protection Training 
   The highest HR executive will be responsible  for managing  coordinating and reporting  
Attendees (ppl) Training Hours (hours) 
48,763 43,923 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Medium risk (   65    85)  Low risk (   85) High risk ( 65  SAQ Assessment Scores(2020) 
Risk Management 
Note : Full marks   200 
   The Human Rights Operation Center of HR organizations  
   The IT Supply Chain Management Section of the  
VAP Assessment Scores (2021) VAP Assessment Scores (2020) VAP Assessment Scores (2019) VAP Assessment Scores (2016-2018) 
major human rights topics in TSMC to  
management.   
will be responsible for human rights topics that have  
daily relevance to employees. Regulations should  
be formulated and implemented in accordance with  
Measures for Human Resources Management System  
and the Internal Control Procedures for Human Resource  
Management System to ensure that the Company meets  
Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) or higher standards.  
Information Technology and Materials Management  
  Risk Management organization will be responsible  
for all human rights topics related to suppliers. All  
regulations shall be formulated and implemented  
200 200 200 VAP 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Corporate  Head- quarters Fab 12B Fab 2 Fab 14A Fab 3 Fab 14B Fab 5 Fab 15A Fab 6 Fab 15B Fab 8 Fab 12A VisEra TSMC  (China) TSMC (Nanjing)  Wafer- Tech 
95.6  92.6  92.2 91.9  92.2 92.6  92.2 93.5 92.2 92.9  91.8 92.6  
- - - - - - - - - - - 200 
- 182.4 193.3 
200 200 200 200 200 200 200 200 200 
200 200 200 200 200 200 
Taiwan Facilities Subsidaries 
In 2020, TSMC provided employees with a total of 93,822  hours of human rights protection training. In total, 55,031  employees (107,057 training attendances) completed the  training program, accounting for 96.8% of TSMC's total  employees. Going forward, TSMC will continue to focus  on human rights protection and offer training programs  to raise human rights awareness among employees to  
minimize risks.  
Human Rights Risk Management 
As a full member of the Responsible Business Alliance  (RBA), TSMC will conduct due diligence in compliance  
Human Rights Protection Training 
in compliance with the TSMC's Supplier Code of  
Conduct to ensure proper supplier management.  
Advanced  Backend  Fab 1 
93.9 93.2 95.2 90.9 
Advanced  Backend  Fab 2 
Advanced  Backend  Fab 3 
Responding to customer demand, TSMC conducted VAP  
audits on Fab 12b in 2020. The complete audit report will  
be made available to customers on RBA-Online in 2021. 
with the RBA Code of Conduct to ensure that TSMC  
either meets or exceeds the standard. Using RBA's self- 
assessment questionnaire (SAQ), TSMC conducts annual  
assessments to identify internal operations bearing the  
highest social, environmental, and moral hazards.  
Between 2016 and 2018, TSMC commissioned a third- 
party institute trained in social and environmental audit  
to conduct RBA's Validated Assessment Program (VAP)  
on all fabs in addition to TSMC's annual SAQ assessment.  
Of the 16 fabs assessed, 14 fabs received full marks  Note .  
Advanced  Backend  Fab 5 
90.3 93.2 91.3 89.3 
Human Rights Policy Concerns and Practices in 2020 
Risk  Assessment 
High-risk  Employees 
Mitigation  Measures 
Reporting  Channels 
Targets  and  Actions 
Target  Group 
   Formulate OSH Management Procedures and estab- lish Employee Health Management Program Meeting  and Occupational Disease Investigation Committee    Formulate Sexual Harassment Prevention Policies  and establish the Sexual Harassment Investigation  Committee 
   Investigate whether there are any occupational  diseases from chemical exposure    Increase voluntary participation rate for non-statuto- ry employee health plans    Case inquiry by the Sexual Harassment Investigation  Committee and Ombudsman 
   All employees 
   1,739 employees under special health management  (For more details, please refer to the Occupational  Safety and Health section of this report)    2 incidents verified by the Sexual Harassment Investi- gation Committee 
   Quarterly meetings on occupational health manage- mentare held by senior executives to manage and control the five major safety hazards of occupational diseases across departments    Launched Psychological Safety Program 
   Offered classes on anti-harassment and anti-bullying 
   Immediate transfer from original post 
   Provide ample medical support 
   Provide compensatory leave and subsidies according  to laws and regulations    Make necessary position or work station changes  depending on the situation. For severe cases, the  offender will be punished according to the TSMC  Employee Reward and Punishment Measures 
   Occupational Disease Investigation Committee    Employee Voice Channels 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Non-discrimination    Equal Employment Opportunity Prohibit Forced Labor  and Child Labor Safe, Healthy,  and Harassment-free Workplace Working Time 
   Establish TSMC Recruitment Interview  Internal Control Procedures and de- clare principles of non-discrimination  and offer the Recruitment   Selection  training courses and suggestions re- minders to the hiring supervisors 
   Eliminate discrimination in the  workplace in compliance with Internal  Control Procedures starting from  recruitment 
   New hires 
   Indigenous peoples, women, migrant  workers, contract employees, disabled  workers , etc. 
   A total of  730 managers completed  the Recruitment   Selection training  course in 2020 
   Violations to the non-discrimination  principle by management shall be pun- ished according to internal policies on  rewards and punishment    Recruitment Division shall reinvite can- didates into the interview process 
   Irregular Business Conduct Reporting 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Comply with the regulations on freely chosen  employment in the RBA Code of Conduct     Establish Recruitment   Hiring Measures to de- clare that TSMC does not employ forced labor and  employees under the age of 18. The Company will  also detail employee rights, duties, and benefits  in the Offer Letter to maintain fair and transparent  employment relations 
   Inquire candidate regarding willingness-to-work  during interviews    Candidates must provide proof of identification  for review 
   New hires 
   Complied with legal regulations for recruitment  and hiring  prohibited child labor and forced labor  
   Risk prevention through regular VAP and SAQ  mechanisms from the RBA Code of Conduct    If there is any evidence of forced labor, supervisors  will be required to make the necessary improve- ments and restitute the rights to which employees  are entitled  
   Irregular Business Conduct Reporting 
   Formulate Management Measures  for Working Hours Procedure and  build an Attendance Record System  and Overtime System 
   Understand employee work hours  through reporting channels, facili- ty-level communication meetings,  and management systems    Employees must agree to overtime  requests and TSMC shall provide  overtime pay or compensatory leave 
    All employees 
   2,738 employees received cere- brovascular and cardiovascular  diseases prevention management  (for more details, please refer to  the OccupationalSafety and Health  section of this report) 
   Managed and analyzed employee  timesheets and provided early  warnings to facility supervisors on  work hour management    Overall employee compensation is  higher than the minimum wage and  industry peers 
   If there is any evidence of overtime  work, supervisors will be required to  make the necessary improvements  and restitute the rights to which  employees are entitled  
   Employee Voice Channels 
   TSMC requires suppliers to comply  with its conflict-free minerals  sourcing policy and sign a state- ment on conflict-free minerals for  products containing tantalum, tin,  gold, and tungsten 
   Establish a due diligence frame- work in compliance with the  Model Supply Chain Policy for a  Responsible Global Supply Chain  of Minerals from Conflict-Affected  and High-Risk Areas by the OECD 
   All suppliers    All employees 
   Suppliers of products containing  tantalum, tin, gold, and tungsten  must collaborate with more than  one compliant smelter 
   Suppliers will be asked to termi- nate sourcing if there is evidence  of sourcing from non-compliant  mines 
   Reporting Channels for Supply  Chain Employees 
Responsible  Mineral Sourcing 
   Provide a variety of activities and  clubs to enrich the concept of work- life balance    Provide child care facilities and edu- cation counseling services to assist  employees 
   Examine participation rates 
   Increase the quota on Compa- ny-owned childcare facilities 
   Employees in need 
   Collaborated with members of the  TSMC Employee Welfare Committee  and activity organizers to promote  activities and encourage participation    Optimized pay structure and offer  an additional 7 days of paid leave to  attract and retain outstanding kinder- garten teachers    Strengthened STEAM education at  the TSMC kindergarten 
   Employee Voice Channels 
   Conduct questionnaires to make  improvements in the future    Move up the date to draw lots for the  use of child care facilities. This will allow  those who did not draw a slot to have  adequate time to find other child care  facilities    Offer competitive compensation and  benefits to kindergarten teachers 
Assist Employees with  Maintaining Work Life Balance  and Physical Mental Health 
Employee Engagement  
TSMC values employee opinions interests and therefore  offers several communication channels. The highest- level executives of the HR organization are responsible  for many of the channels, ensuring that matters are  handled in an efficient and confidential manner as we  continue to strive towards an open and transparent  environment for employees managers and colleagues to  communicate. Furthermore, TSMC respects employees'  right to take part in collective bargaining and peaceful  rallies. In accordance with legal requirements in Taiwan,  the Company regularly holds labor-management  meetings to brief employees on Company operations  and invite employees to engage in discussions on labor  conditions and benefits. To facilitate labor-management  communication, after the labor representative's four- year term was up in 2018, fabs in the Central Taiwan  Science Park adopted an e-voting system for the election  of new labor representatives. The e-voting system  was expanded in 2019 to Longtan facilities and in 2020  to Hsinchu and Tainan facilities to encourage more  employee voting. As of December 31st, 2020, all labor  representative elections in Taiwan facilities have been  conducted through e-voting. 
In 2020, TSMC's internal communication channels  handled a total of 4,343 cases of employee opinions and  complaints, including 4 through the Sexual Harassment  Investigation Committee, 171 through the Ombudsman  System, 906 through the Employee Opinion Box, 3,192  through the Fab Caring Circle, and 70 cases through  the Irregular Business Conduct Reporting System. All  reported cases have been processed and addressed by  competent organizations. 
Cases reported through the Sexual Harassment  Investigation Committee, the Ombudsman System  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Cases Reported Through Internal Communication Channels 
Total Cases Received 
Fab Caring Circle Cases 
Employee Opinion Box Cases 
Ombudsman System Cases 
0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
Note: The figures for Ombudsman System, Sexual Harassment Investigation Committee, Irregular Business Conduct Reporting System, and Employee Opinion Box  cover all TSMC facilities, while the figure for Fab Caring Circle covers only TSMC's Taiwan facilities. 
and Irregular Business Conduct Reporting System were  
investigated and reviewed by designated committee  
members. Cases reported through the Employee  
Opinion Box were handled by responsible persons, who  
would then communicate with employees about the  
solutions and outcome. Employees can access all internal  
communication channels via the internal employee portal. 
In 2020, there were 2 verified cases of sexual harassment  
as confirmed by the Sexual Harassment Investigation  
Committee. The perpetrating employees received severe  
Sexual Harassment Investigation Committee (Cases Reported) 
Irregular Business Conduct Reporting System (Cases Established) 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
3,697 3,856 3,632 
4,688 4,395 
punishments and one was dismissed from the Company.  
As both cases involved social software abuse, TSMC has  
reinforced the social software section in the 2020 sexual  
harassment prevention courses to raise awareness  
among employees.  
There were 6 violations to business ethics and all involved  
employees have been punished in compliance with  
Company regulations. The importance of business ethics  
continues to be advocated in related courses. In 2020, the  
annual business ethics and regulatory compliance training  
Sexual Harassment Investigation Committee (Cases Established) Irregular Business Conduct Reporting System (Cases Reported) 
Discrimination Cases 
completion rate was 99.72%, with 50,482 employees  
having received trainings. Management training  
completion rate was 100%, with 5,425 managers having  
received trainings. 
With these effective internal communication channels,  
the relationship between the management level and  
employees has been harmonious over the years. TSMC  
has always respected employee rights to form a labor  
union, but so far none have been formed.  
Unit: Case 
Internal Communications Structure  Employee Voice Channels 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Face-to-Face Meeting 
   Chairman's CEO's Communication Meeting 
   Labor-Management Meeting  
   Communication Meetings in Individual  Functions Divisions    Functional Activity 
Employee Portal Employee Survey HR Area Service Team eSilicon Garden 
Employee Voice Channels 
   Ombudsman System 
   Employee Opinion Box 
   Whistleblower Procedures 
   Fab Caring Circle 
   Sexual Harassment Investigation Committee 
   113 Caring-dedicated Line 
e Employee Voice  Channels 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Managers of  All Levels 
Human  Resources 
System   Committee  Chair 
Board of  Directors and  Management  Team 
Note: Cases reported via 113 Caring Hotline and SMS are handled by designated people and directed to other voice channels. 
Employee Opinion Box 
Various Company Issues (livelihood JOS internal transfers  performance development leave,  attendance   overtime pay   welfare  resignation   unpaid leave  personal  rights   interest other suggestions) Person in Charge: Vice President,  Human Resources 
113 Caring-dedicated Line Ombudsman  System 
Personal and Work-related Issues (area code  113) Person in Charge: Vice  President, Human Resources 
Fab Caring Circle 
Various Issues in Fabs(Equipment  workplace work assignments process  updates internal management) Person in Charge: Fab Directors 
Accounting   Legal Issues Person in Charge: Chairman of TSMC  Audit Committee  Chairperson 
Whistleblower Procedures 
Personal and Work-related Issues  0987-571785 (help hotline) Person in Charge: Vice President,  Human Resources 
Major management missteps,  workplace violence, and financial  audit issues Person in Charge: Vice President 
Sexual Harassment Person in Charge: Deputy Director, Legal 
Sexual Harassment  Investigation  
Occupational Safety  and Health 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Promote Safety Culture 
Advocate for a humanistic safety  culture, manage safety risks and  establish an intrinsically safe  working environment  
Comprehensive Health  Management 
Prevent occupational diseases and  promote a comprehensive health  management  
Internal-External Alliance 
Collaborate with external parties  to establish a safer working  environment across the supply chain   
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
Note 1: According to the Occupational Safety and Health Act, Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR)  Disabling Severity Rate (SR) are defined as any  diseases, injuries, disabilities, or deaths of workers caused by buildings, machinery, equipment, raw materials, materials, chemicals, gases,  vapors, dusts, etc., at the place of duty, or as a result of work activities, or due to other occupational causes. Other unrelated injuries in the  workplace such as falling in the cafeteria or parking lot due to various reasons are not considered as work injuries. Target has been amended  according to new definition. See Statistical Analysis of Disabling Injuries for detailed information. 
   Incident Rate per 1,000 Employees   0.20  
   Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR)   0.3 
   Disabling Severity Rate (SR)   3 
   0 Cases of Occupational Disorders Caused by  Exposure to Chemicals  
   Health Program Participation Rate: 55%  
   Assist all contractors with high risk  operations Note2 in  obtaining ISO 45001  certification for occupational safety and  health management system  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
  Incident Rate per 1,000 Employees   0.20  
  Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR)   0.4  
  Disabling Severity Rate (SR)   4  
   0 Cases of Occupational Disorders Caused by  Exposure to Chemicals  
   Health Promotion Program Participation Rate: 
   Assist 65% of our contractors engaged  in high risk operations obtain ISO 45001  certification for occupational safety and  health management system 
   Incident Rate per 1,000 Employees: 0.311  
   Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR): 0.42  
   Disabling Severity Rate (SR): 4  
   Health Promotion Program Participation Rate: 53.5%   
   0 Cases of Occupational Disorders Caused by  Exposure to Chemicals  
   Assisted 60% of our contractors engaged  in high risk operations obtain ISO 45001  certification for occupational safety and health  management system 
Note 2: TSMC continues to have new vendors that are considered as  contractors engaged in high risk operations each year and will  therefore continue to offer assistance in this area.   
Note 3: Missed target for incident rate per 1,000 employees. For  mitigation measures, please see Safety Performance Index. 
Target:   0.20 
Target:   0.45 
Target:   6 
Target: 0 cases 
Target:   53% 
Target: 60% 
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
In 2020, all TSMC s fabs in Taiwan received ISO 45001  
certifications and, in response to ISO 45001 system  
updates, TSMC assisted TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing),  
WaferTech, and VisEra obtain ISO 45001 certifications  
to comply with the latest international standards on  
occupational safety and health, and to ensure the safety  
and health of all TSMC employees. TSMC also established  
a Disease Control Committee in response to the COVID-19  
pandemic. The committee's purpose is to design  
prevention measures based on changing situations,  
   Health  Care 
   Workplace risk inspection  
   Chemical exposure  assessment     Noise and non-ionizing  radiation protection    Ergonomic engineering  management     Foundry-level Occupational  Safety and Health Committees 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Internal Control  for Safety and Health  
   Assistance for  employees  
All Departments  Work with other departments to implement all safety-  and health-related activities 
Wellness Center Responsible for health advocacy 
Fab-level Industrial Safety and Environmental  Protection Division Promote safety- and health-related activities 
   Health  advocacy 
   Contractor management   
   Fab-level occupational disease  prevention    Assist subsidiaries in  developing regulations for  occupational safety and health  and set performance targets     Assist leased or borrowed fabs  or offices during emergency  responses  
   Early warnings for  occupational diseases  
designate isolated working groups of employees and  
vendors, and maintain day-to-day operations.  
With higher production capacity, the number of  
contractors visiting TSMC subsequently set a new  
record in 2020, climbing from 32,168 people day in 2019  
to 39,470 people day. TSMC is now the most visited  
semiconductor company in Taiwan. TSMC is committed  
to providing a safe workplace for contractors and hopes  
that contractors can participate in creating a friendly  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Establish policies, targets, and plans 
   Find and introduce new technologies, information on new hazards  or occupational safety and health risks, and new management  procedures to audit safety and health performances     Convene the company-level Occupational Safety and Health  Committee    Hold safety and health discussions with external stakeholders 
   Demand contractor compliance with TSMC ESH standards and  build a sustainable supply chain     Spearhead the Occupational Disease Investigation Committee to  carry out occupational disease prevention throughout TSMC     Define responsibilities for leased facilities and ensure ESH  regulations of the are complies with risk identification  NEW 
Construct corresponding blueprints,  management protocols, and SOPs  
Corporate ESH Division  
and healthy workplace. To such ends, TSMC founded the  
Editorial Committee comprised of 108 engineers from the  
Industrial Safety and Environmental Protection Division.  
The Committee categorized and restructured complicated  
regulations on environment protection, safety, and heath.  
The regulations were compiled and classified based on  
the fabrication stage it would impact and the Contractor  
ESH Bluebook was issued in March 2020. The bluebook  
is an intuitive illustrated reference guide that can help  
contractors and inspire our peers to create a safe and  
Improve safety and health across  supply chain through guidance  and collaboration  
Collaborate with External Stakeholders to Reduce Occupational Safety and Health Risks 
Suppliers and  Contractors  
healthy workplace across the supply chain. The Contractor  
ESH Bluebook has also been updated to comply with  
new regulations. TSMC immeditately established Thermal  
Hazard Prevention Procedures to comply with the latest  
Thermal Hazard Prevention Guide for Outdoor Labor in  
High Temperatures. The Procedures are intended to warn  
and provide measures to contractors about potential heat  
strokes, heat exhaustion, or seizures induced by heat.  
Collaborate to build a healthy  and safe workplace  
Government, TSIA    SEMI Organizations  
implemented the following measures and used the Safety  
Performance Index (SPI) to track performances for safety  
and health measures. The Occupational Safety and  
Health Committee at the fab level and at the corporate  
level will regularly report safety and health efforts to  
labor representatives on a monthly and quarterly basis,  
respectively.   
Promote Safety Culture  
TSMC believes that people comes first and we strive  
to build a humanistic workplace. Each management  
level has the responsibility to build a safe and healthy  
workplace and we ask employees to comply through  
various management systems and regulations.  
We continue to improve by observing people, the  
environment, and behaviors. Educational training is also  
provided to ensure that employees works toward this goal  
and thereby propel TSMC into sustainable development.   
Safety and Health Measures 
Following the TSMC Safety and Health Policy, TSMC  
Safety and Health Measures  
Contractor  Management  
Regulatory  Updates  
Management of  Change  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Standardized  Management  Procedures 
Compliance  Audit 
Chemical  Management  
Emergency  Response  
Safety and  Health  Education  
Tool  Management  
Hazard  Identification and  Assessment  
Occupational  Injury  Prevention  
Note 1: A regulation update platform poised to launch at TSMC (China) and TSMC (Nanjing) to  address regulatory discrepancies will be postponed to 2021 due to problems in the setup of  domain firewalls.  Note 2: 2020 Training Statistics. Note 3: Launched interactive online training course on safety and health for new employees. The interactive  video is more fun and effective  over 95% of employees were satisfied with the new training.  
Regulatory Updates  
Standardized  Management  Procedures  
Safety and Health  Education  Note 2 
Hazard  Identification and  Assessment  Note 4  
Management of  Change     A total of 5,626 cases of change management were completed with zero related incident  
Chemical Management  Note 5  
Tool Management     Evaluated and introduced 194 new tools with zero related incidents  
Contractor  Management 
Compliance Audit     A total of 1,628 cases of failed compliance were raised with internal audits. All cases of failed compliance were corrected within  the designated time  
Emergency Response  
Occupational Injury  Prevention  
Measures Safety and Health Efforts in 2020  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   In response to rapid expansion, TSMC detailed ESH management responsibilities for leased properties including leased offices,  labs, testing centers, parking lots, or fabs  
   In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, TSMC established the Disease Prevention Guidelines to define responsible divisions for  disease prevention, investigation approaches, health declarations, communication with external parties, inspecting disease  prevention measures, disinfection, and other processes     TSMC obtained the ISO 45001 certification for occupational safety and health management system   
   83 employees passed the ISO 14001  ISO 45001 internal auditing training as part of our efforts to train internal auditors  
   Continued to offer safety and health training to employees and contractors. Training records are digitalized for archive to  comply with safety and health regulations and emergency response. Certain operations are considered hazardous and the law  requires qualifications to operate  employees have obtained qualifications for all necessary operations.     Improved Safety and Health Training Courses  Note 3 for new employees. The original on-site course is now designed to be an  online course with on-site lessons to increase training efficiency     100% of employees and contractors have passed Safety and Health Trainings 
   For employees and contractors, TSMC conducted workplace hazard identification, safety and health management plans, job site  analysis, job site observation and operational safety analysis, and health management analysis. All identified risks were classified  into different risk levels for future management, tracking, and monitoring to control, prevent or reduce hazards and risks. Carried  out 28,000 cases of hazard assessment  
   Contractors engaged in a total of 28,758 high-risk operations  
   Two new regulations have been added: "Notification of Hazard in Contractor's Work Site Inspection" and "Thermal Hazard  Prevention Guide for Outdoor Labor in High Temperatures." For more details, please refer to the Contractor ESH Bluebook 
   Upgraded evacuation roll call mechanism from manual to automatic (employees will swipe their ID) to ensure all employees  are accounted for  
   Kept up to date with latest regulations, tracked compliance in all fabs, and issued 10 amendments to safety and health regulations  
   29 of 58 documents on standardizing ESH management processes were reviewed and amended in 2020 
   Became first in the industry to deploy all-hazard management in disaster drills. Carried out 195 drills and 75 tabletop  exercises Note6 in 2020  
   Continued to hold investigative meetings to analyze employee injuries and issued results to all fabs for roll-out in hopes of  reducing occupational accidents  
   All chemicals were put through safety  assessing processes before use. A total of 259 chemicals were introduced with zero  related incidents  
Completed Ongoing Note 4: TSMC is committed to building a safety culture that protects employees and the company.  We encourage employees to suggest ways to improve workplace safety. Their suggestions  will then be classified and tracked to control, prevent or reduce hazard and risks.  Note 5: Chemical Management Procedures. 
Note 6: For more details, please refer to TSMC First to Introduce All-Hazard Management Program. 
Taiwan  Fabs  SPI Overseas  Fabs  VisEra  
Safety Performance Index  
The TSMC Safety Performance Index (SPI) was classified  
into four levels and two subtypes active index and  
passive index. The active index encourages employees  
to participate in health   safety programs and raise  
suggestions for safety improvements while the passive  
index shows the number of safety-related failures and  
false alarms. In 2020, blue-light indicators were reduced  
Historical Incidents by Type 
Note: In 2020, the incident by type per thousands of individuals entered  TSMC included employees from TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China),  TSMC (Nanjing), WaferTech, and VisEra  and contractors to TSMC fabs in  Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra.  
Personal injury Gas false alarm 
Chemical leakage  
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Year 
0.166 0.028 0.028 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Unit: Number of incidents   per thousand employees 
0.062 0.062 
Power outage 
0.042 0.042 0.126 
0.081 0.223 0.121 
Fire false alarm  
0.042 0.042 
0.114 0.104 
Note: In 2020, the incidence rate per thousands of individuals entered TSMC  included employees from TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC  (Nanjing), WaferTech, and VisEra  and contractors to TSMC fabs in  Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra.  
to 70.4% from 88.8% in the previous year while red- 
light indicators rose by 1% as the number of incidents  
grew from 21 in 2019 to 30 in 2020. Upon investigation  
with the 3L5W (Three-legged Five Whys)   tool, we  
discovered that the incidents included 11 gas false alarm,  
10 personnel injuries, four early warnings for fire false  
alarm incidents, four chemical leakages, and one power  
outage. The SPI has been declining each year since 2019.  
Historical Incidents  
Number of Incidents  Number of incidents  total number of individuals entered TSMC  Note 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Year 2016 2018 2020 2017 2019 Year 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
0.257 0.311 
As such, TSMC will issue safety culture questionnaires to  
a number of fabs in 2021 to identify matters that can be  
improved. The questionnaire results are expected to be  
analyzed in 2022 and we will be able to gain insight into the  
efficacy of previous mitigation measures.   
Safety Performance Index Chart  
Note 2: Figures from TSMC fabs in Taiwan, WaferTech, TSMC (China), TSMC  (Nanjing), and VisEra. 
Excellent Good 
Warning Alarm 
Reduce Gas False Alarm Improvement  Highlights  in 2020  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Prevent Power Outages from Sudden Surge in Energy Consumption  
Reduce Personnel Injuries  Improvements 
There were four chemical spills in 2020, mainly caused by damaged or loose components. Mitigation measures were to strengthen how chemical pipelines are  secured to prevent the joints from loosening due to vibrations  TSMC is also inspecting critical valves on the chemical pipelines daily to ensure early failure detection  Reduce Chemical Leakage  
Reduce Fire False Alarm  
Contractors 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
In the seven personnel injury cases, six were extremity fractures  from falling while walking and were confirmed to be non- work-related  one was from ladder misuse during machine  maintenance and TSMC has responded by establishing a  Safety Management Procedures for All Workplace Machines 
In 2020, TSMC contractors were engaged in 28,758 high-risk  tasks each day. There were three contractor injuries in 2020  from noncompliance to on-site procedures, top-heavy tools  that were not corrected, and lack of safety training before  operations  
In 11 cases of early warnings, the special gases were turned  off immediately after the warning signals. The gases were  then channeled to treatment facilities through wind ducts  and therefore there were no actual gas leaks, personnel  injuries, or pollution to the environment. Causes of the  early warnings were analyzed and TSMC will work towards  standardization, automation, and employee training  
The early warning fire alarm system was triggered four times in 2020  of which one was caused by cast resin transformers, a significant improvement from 2018  after the special project to prevent faults in cast resin transformers was launched. Other events were standalone events that involved lithium batteries, lightning  conductors, etc. and all of which have been corrected 
There was one power outage in 2020. The mitigation measure was to send power equipment to Taipower for review,  expand relay settings, and monitor electricity load in real-time 
   All ladders must be inspected during entry. After inspections, the ladder will be labeled with "Notice (CH  EN)" and "Ladder Sign"     Set specific requirements on the width, depth, and rung spacing of all ladders. Employees shall not  stand on their tiptoe or on one foot when on ladders  the ladders must be placed on a smooth surface,  employees shall not place other surfaces on top of ladders to use as a platform, and employees shall not  engage in any work that requires large, drastic movements on ladders  
   Issued On-site Health, Safety and Hazard Notices to remind contractors to be aware of safety and health  items. TSMC project leads must now accompany contractors entering high-risk areas. Anyone entering the  3.5 floor ceiling, must apply for a Ceiling Work Permit    Added Procedures for the Identification of Hard-to-Move Machines to list top-heavy machines that have a  high risk of toppling over and mitigation measures during construction meetings     Integrated Contractor Management with Access Control Systems  vendors that have not completed TSMC  safety and health training will not be allowed onto the premise 
Improvements 
   Define replacement procedures for special gas cylinders and introduce standard processes for  pressurizing special gases and checking for helium leaks into the management procedures     Install safety device that automatically determines gas cylinder pressure. Any gas cylinders that fail  to meet standards will not be issued to the production line. This helps reduce the risk of human error    When replacing gases, workers should wear video transmission equipment that sends on-site  videos to the Emergency Response Center and the FMCS to ensure workplace safety during high-risk  operations  
Improvements 
Statistics on Disabling Injuries 
The definition for occupational accidents is in accordance  
with the Occupational Safety and Health Act and  
important disabling injury indicators issued by the Global  
Reporting Initiative which uses Disabling Severity Rate  
(SR) and Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR) as primary  
indicators. In 2020, TSMC reviewed the Occupational  
Safety and Health Act stipulating that only work-related  
injuries shall be counted towards SR  FR. Other non-work  
injuries such as falling in the cafeteria or parking lot due to  
other reasons shall not be counted towards occupational  
injuries but should be investigated and resolved.  
Employee vacation, medical insurance, and insurance  
shall remain the same.  
Total Working Hours, Injuries, and Working Days Lost Note 1 
Note 1: According to the Occupational Safety and Health Act, Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR)  Disabling Severity Rate (SR) are defined as any diseases, injuries,  disabilities, or deaths of workers caused by buildings, machinery, equipment, raw materials, materials, chemicals, gases, vapors, dust, etc., at the place of  duty, or as a result of work activities, or due to other occupational causes. Other unrelated injuries in the workplace such as falling in the cafeteria or parking  lot due to various reasons are not considered as work injuries. The table above details data from the past 5 years based on the new definition.  Note 2: Figures from TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra.  
Injury Cases Working Days Lost Total Work Hours 
86,524,246 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
0.35 0.47 0.52 0.42 
Year Year 2017                        2019       
82,115,207 
2018 2020  Year 
94,146,363 102,139,494 
 Note: Please refer to "Improvement Highlights in 2020" for details of falling. 
Disabling Injury Frequency Rate 
In 2020, there were 43 disabling injuries among  employees with 422 working days lost. Of the 43  disabling injuries, 29 were from men with 308 working  days lost and 14 were from women with 114 working  days lost. Men suffered from a higher number of work- related disabling injuries and working days lost than  women did. Aside from falling  Note, the main causes  were crushing injuries, cuts, scrapes, and punctures  during maintenance. 
Disabling Injuries 
Female Injuries 
In 2020, the majority of female injuries were from falling  or collisions that mainly occurred while transporting  cleanroom trolleys at 6-inch and 8-inch fabs. 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
84,141,102 
Disabling Severity Rate  
Implemented LOTO (Lock out  Tag out) measures that require  employees to lock out and tag  out all moving parts during  maintenance. In 2020, 2,577  operations were completed  and added to the Maintenance  Procedures 
Redesigned trolley route and  storage location after on-site  observation and operator  feedback  
Improvements 
Improvements 
Note: Figures from TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing),  and VisEra..  Note: Figures from TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing),  and VisEra.  
Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate by Gender  Disabling Severity Rate by Gender  
Male Male Female Female 
2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 2020 2020 
Used preventative equipment  while using or turning off  valves on gas-powered devices  and fool-proofing equipment  to prevent injuries during  operations. The Industrial Safety  and Environmental Protection  Department will also conduct  sporadic inspections daily to  increase alertness 
Added bumper strips to  all sides of the trolley to  prevent serious injuries from  accidental collisions  
Established certifications for  operators and supervisors.  Uncertified employees will not  be allowed to operate on the  equipment. Training records  and operation application  records will be linked  to  protect employees, untrained  employees will not be allowed to  apply to operate 
Installed mirrors at collision- prone areas to increase  alertness while transporting  trolleys  
Safety and health training  materials now contain  chapters on when and how  to use protective gear for  cuts scrapes punctures 
Disabling Severity Rate by Injury Non-work-related Injuries Rate  
In 2020, TSMC experienced 37 non-work-related injuries. Falling accounted for the highest percentage with 24 cases, resulting in a loss of 485 working days.   
Cause Analysis and Prevention for Falls  Disabling Injury Frequency Rate by Injury 
Fall Crush, collision Ergonomic injuries Crush Cut, scrape,puncture Others 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
 10.3%  10.3% 13.8% 41.4% 17.3% 6.9% 
11.4% 5.2% 37% 26% 5.5% 14.9% 
28.6% 7.1% 21.5% 7.1% 35.7% 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
15.8% 48.2% 
Crush, collision 
Personal Office 
22 Falls from Other Reasons: Not paying attention when  walking, losing balance while turning, tripping on shoelaces,  misstep in the stairways, tripping when getting out of car,  slipping on rainy days, or fainting from discomfort  
Continue to optimize fall-prone areas, place posters to  raise awareness, and remind employees to pay attention to  personal safety 
Improvements Improvements 
4.9% 2.4% 2.4% 
Ergonomic Injuries Sports injury 
Cut, scrape,puncture Others 
TSMC's ESH Center of Facility Academy. 
2 Falls from Failing to Follow Through with Cleaning  Procedures  
   Review cleaning and waxing processes, establish  measures to put up construction fences for safe  operations, prohibit other employees from entering the  premises while cleaning    Use chemical sorbent pads to clean oil stains on the floor  to prevent falls    Add cleaning and waxing processes into monthly training  courses for cleaning staff  
Comprehensive Health  Management  
Work-related diseases and personal health issues  
undermine productivity and may significantly  
impact the Company's operation. A comprehensive  
health management plan identifies health risks in  
the workplace, takes responsive measures, prevents  
occupational diseases, and promotes physical and  
mental health among employees.   
Prevent Occupational Diseases        Moving beyond traditional approaches to occupational  
health, TSMC has been committed to building a safe and  
healthy workplace where each work item is assessed  
with risk identification to uncover five major potential  
risks, including chemical, physical, ergonomic, biological,  
and social psychological, and to design preventive  
measures accordingly. In 2020, TSMC continued to work  
with Professor Peng-Chi Tsai from National Cheng Kung  
University to monitor chemical workstations and analyze  
In January 2020, in response to the global COVID-19  
pandemic, TSMC established the Disease Control  
Committee and set up a real-time disease control section  
on the Company's internal website so employees have  
immediate access to the latest updates and measures.  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Prevention Measures   Achievements against Occupational Diseases  
   Arranged occupational physicians to visit loading sites at TSMC fabs in  Taiwan and request feedback  
   The ergonomic risk assessment form was streamlined to ensure instant  risk level assessment  
   Computerized ergonomic risk assessment systems  used to identify  operations with high-ergonomic risks  
   Health centers conducted questionnaire surveys,  tracked employees  who apply for pain relief patches, and arranged meetings with  occupational physicians  
   6 on-site visits from occupational physicians with 2 feedbacks, including annual  employee training, and redesign of poorly designed handles, etc. All necessary  changes were made with a 100% completion rate 
   Computerized assessments were conducted on 10 employees with above- average height. Office chairs were raised and foot mats were provided to  maximize comfort levels. Target employee satisfaction rate stood at 100%  
   185 employees were impacted by soreness and participated in the ergonomic  risk exposure survey. Upon assessment from occupational physicians, 7 of these  185 employees were suspected to be impacted by ergonomic risk factors and  received support in the form of adjusted work duties 
   Employees affected by soreness were cross-checked with the computerized  ergonomic risk assessment system. None were found to be working in areas or  potential areas of ergonomic risks 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
On-site Inspections with Occupational Physicians  Chemical 
Sustainable Measures  
Achievements  Achievements  
   Conducted lead exposure risk assessment on all fabrications using  lead mixtures or compounds in advanced backend fabs  
   Chemicals Management: For more details, please refer to the Chemical  Management Process  
   First Taiwan semiconductor company to introduce the EU EN 14175-3  standards for fume hoods and establish laboratory fume hood exhaust  standards  
   Strengthened protection in workplaces that use lead mixtures or compounds  
   All chemicals were assessed as low risk and the safety information for all  chemicals used at TSMC is 100% accurate  
   All chemical-related tasks inside laboratories shall be conducted inside fume  hoods to reduce health risks to operators  
Establish Exposure Assessment Model to Manage the Use of Chemicals 
New Measures in 2020  
Sustainable Measures  
 Continued from previous page  
   Used IT system to integrate data from employee health check-ups  (including historical data) to ensure the screening of more employees into  the program for continuous managment, and combine with  a reminder  mechanism  to daily monitor working hours of high-risk operators 
   Conduct employee health risk assessment and divide into different  levels for management after annual checkups. Health information  and medical support are also provided  
   Physicians will recommend adjustment to employee work hours and  job contents  
   The number of  employees under current management has  grown to 2,738. TSMC has taken advice from the occupational  physician to inform the employees, employee s supervisor, and HR  representatives to adjust the employees  workload to reduce risks of  cerebrovascular and cardiovascular diseases 
   Integration with  In-Out system to remind employees, supervisors,  and HR representatives for long working hours, or rearrange an  assessment with occupational physician  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Carry out Cerebrovascular and Cardiovascular Disease  Prevention and Management Program 
Social Psychological 
New Measures in 2020  New Measures in 2020  New Measures in 2020  
Sustainable Measures  Sustainable Measures  Sustainable Measures  
Achievements  Achievements  Achievements  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   A total of 401 cases of notifiable epidemics and non-notifiable  epidemics were effectively managed to contain the spread  
   A total of 295 epidemics prevention toolkits were distributed to  employees on official business trips  
   Continued to track communicable epidemics domestically and abroad  and establish preventive response measures for notifiable epidemics     Established Epidemics Control Committee to develop COVID-19  countermeasures and reporting mechanisms for non-notifiable epidemics  
   Employees on business trips to areas with disease outbreaks will be  briefed and provided with disease prevention toolkits   
   Provide up-to-date information on seasonal flu and Dengue Fever  
   Handled 5,937 high-risk cases in compliance with COVID-19 control  measures   
Track CDC Updates to Provide Employees with the Latest  Health Information  
Biological 
   Develop measurement system for ionizing radiation levels to  monitor the radiation protection of all equipment, maintain a  record of non-ionizing radiation levels of all relevant equipment,  ban individuals with cardiac pacemakers operating such equipment  and warn before hiring  
   Process equipment is tested for non-ionizing radiation levels every  six months  
   Conducted special eye test on one operator whose results were normal  
   No cases of radiation exposure  
   All equipment tested normal for non-ionizing radiation levels  
   Compiled the Laser Source Calibration Guidelines and added special  eye test  
Better Identification of Physical Hazards  
Epidemics Prevention    Shutting Out COVID-19 
In 2020, in response to the global COVID-19 pandemic,  
TSMC established the TSMC Disease Control  
Committee with members from the Corporate  
Environment Safety Health Division, HR, Operations,  
Materials Management, Customer Service, Public  
Relations, and offshore subsidiaries. The Senior Vice  
President of Information Technology and Materials  
Management   Risk Management is the commander  
for disease prevention and is responsible for disease  
prevention control measures and emergency  
response  taking stock of required labor and resources  
and allocating accordingly  and making necessary  
announcements on disease prevention control  
measures in TSMC. The Corporate Environment  
Safety Health Division Director is the executive  
secretary of the committee, responsible for gathering  
and compiling local disease prevention policies from  
regions where TSMC has fabs or subsidiaries  follow  
up on domestic and overseas situations and suggest  
disease prevention measures to the commander   
work with the Wellness Center for the high-risk  
employee list  and establish the Disease Prevention  
Guidelines for TSMC. All TSMC fabs in Taiwan,  
domestic subsidiaries, and offshore subsidiaries were  
required to adhere to relevant disease prevention  
control measures to ensure effective control over the  
pandemic, guarantee employee safety, and maintain  
day-to-day operations.  
Case Study 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Epidemic Risk Management to Protect Employees and Contractors  
Cloud Controller  1 
Through cloud services,  TSMC has developed a body  temperature feedback system  with smartphone IM functions  for all personnel entering  the Company. The system  is connected to the ACS  and can effectively manage  entry authorizations for high- risk personnel. Every day,  the cloud controller reports  suspicious temperatures to  prevent high-risk personnel  from entering TSMC. 
Self-management in  Employees and Contractors 2 
People are required to wash hands,  check body temperatures, and  confirm identity when entering  TSMC. Everyone must report body  temperatures, complete the Health  Declaration Form, wear masks  in public spaces, maintain a safe  social distance, and comply with  strict dining rules. 
Investigation and Emergency  Response to Confirmed Cases  3 
TSMC has established a comprehensive investigation process and emergency response structure with defined roles according to the company's Disease Prevention Guidelines. In  2020, TSMC had one confirmed COVID-19 case and immediately organized an emergency response team within an hour to investigate the confirmed case. In addition to guidelines  from the National Health Command Center (NHCC), TSMC has initiated additional quarantine measures for an expanded list of contacts and disinfected workstations. TSMC also  offered support to the employee confirmed to have Covid-19 and his her contacts for medical follow-ups, COVID-19 related health measures, and assistance in daily life.   
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Epidemic Risk Manamgent Process 
Entry   Control 
Washing Hands.  
Instantly Monitor At-risk  Personnel Check  health  conditions  before  entering  TSMC 
Design Online  Questionnaire for  Body Temperature  and Contact History 
Use external  questionnaire  system for  swift health  reporting 
Body Temperature Check  before Entering TSMC.  
Instant  health   reporting 
Daily Analysis  Report Monitor health and  body temperature 
Monitor body  temperatures and  automatic entry  access of high-risk  personnel based  on Disease Control  Committee  policies 
ID Check before  Entering TSMC.  
Automatically Restrict Access for  High-risk Personnel 
Disease Control - Entry  Authorization Management System Access Control  System 
Wear Masks in All Public  Areas. 
Monitoring by the  Disease Control  Committee 
Restrict  authorization  for  employees  on high-risk  personnel list 
Scattered Seating  Arrangement for  Mealtimes.  
Automatically  import high-risk  personnel lis 
Automatic  access  (off on)  control  
Signs on the Table  Remind Employees  Contractors that Tables    Chaires Should Remain in  the Same Position and No  Talking While Eating.  
Commence  WFH in  response  to isolation  policies 
One- stop WFH  Services 
Assist Employees in Health Management, Including Health Risk Management   Health Care  
Occupational Health Risk 
TSMC's occupational health risk management plan covers both occupational hazards and personal health,  which need to be improved to protect employees health.  
Health Risk Management  Health Care 
Occupational Musculoskeletal  Disorder Preventiopn Plan 209 
General Employee  Healthcare 54,100 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Employees with high perceived stress levels  were offered psycological counseling. High Stress Support Plan 1,245 
Material Health  Management PlanPlan 643 
Medical Evaluation for the  Use of RPE(Respiratory  Protective Equipment) 
Cerebrovascular and  Cardiovascular Disease Prevention  and Managemetnt Program  
Special Health  Examination Management    1,739 
Relevance to Work 
A  total of 9,882 employees received moderately  and highly abnormal health check results, and  all of them were closely monitored. 
Employees who were absent for more than  four days due to musculoskeletal pain were  assessed to determine whether adjustments  to work were necessary. 
Conducted workplace evaluations for 643 expecting   new mothers and gifted 1,788 baby career gift sets 
In compliance with the Respiratory Protection Program  and Management Guidelines, TSMC is conducting medical  evaluations to determine respiratory protection needs. 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Mid high risk employees will receive medical  assistance and work hour management. 
In accordance with legal regulations on occupational  safety and health, all employees involved in operations  with special health examination, a total of 4,753  individuals, completed special health examinations. 
3,704 Users of the free consulting service Assistance for Employees 
Offer employees a supportive environment and a variety of health care programs to maintain employee health.  
Employees are encouraged to exercise regularly. TSMC Sports Centers and all TSMC facilities come with gyms, aerobics classrooms, and  multifunctional ball courts to provide employees with a supportive environment and multiple options for exercise. The services, including  swimming pools, yoga classes, and spinning bike classes, can be accessed by employees and their dependents. 
TSMC has a long-term partnership with professional psychologists, lawyers, and accountants to provide employees with free consulting  services and help employees deal with stress and mental issues. 
Health and Wellness  Programs in 2020 
Cancer Screening 8,631  Recieved fecal occult blood tests, Pap smears, or breast gynecologic ultrasonography 
Including employees, family members, vendors, and visitors 17,581 Clinic Services 
Massage Service 231  Recieved massages service performed by resident masseurs 
Physycal and Mental  Health Lectures 1,377  Joined lectures on disease prevention, excercise, dieting or stress management 
18,981  Health Promotion   Programs 
129,375 Users  Sports Center 
Taiwan Facilities TSMC (China) TSMC (Nanjing) VisEra WaferTech 
Outpatients  
Participants  
Participants 
Joined events such as online Health Speeches, Health Quiz, Healthy Diet Tips, and  Weight Control Competition. Health Promotion Programs were taken online or  e-Learning in consideration of the COVID-19 pandemic. Interactive online Speeches  welcomed twice as many participants as  traditional lectures did in the past. Through  sharing real-life case studies. TSMC urged employees to make lifestyle changes 
Participants 
Internal-External Alliance 
As a leader in the global semiconductor industry,  
TSMC exerts an ever-greater influence on societies and  
industries. Therefore, TSMC recognizes its obligations in  
creating a healthy workplace together with its vendors  
and contractors. In the first half of 2020, TSMC reduced  
and restricted face-to-face exchanges with outside  
parties to share our experience in safety and health.  
When the pandemic eased in the second half of the year,  
TSMC reinitiated training and consultations. We worked  
with our business partners, the industry, the government,  
academia, and all of society to reduce safety and health  
risks from vendors and contractors.   
Training Programs for Contractors  Disabling Injuries in Contractors 
Note: Figures from TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra.  Note: Figures from TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra.  
Safety and health Training  On-site contractors exposed to chemicals are trained to use protective gear  
On-site contractors exposed to chemicals shall attend the annual emergency drill  
2016 2018 2020 Year 2017 2019 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Work with External Parties to  Optimize Work Environment  
TSMC regularly attends the Joint Steering Committee  
ESH Working Group of the World Semiconductor Council  
on behalf of the Taiwan semiconductor industry to  
conduct exchanges with overseas peers on occupational  
safety and health. In 2020, the ESH Working Group was  
held online in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The  
goal was to share experiences on managing a safe and  
healthy workplace while eliminating the risk that comes  
with public gatherings.  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Existing  Contractors 
Existing  Contractors 
New  Contractors 
Raise Contractor Awareness on Health  Risk through Better Hazard Notices  
Contractors under high risk of chemical exposure were  identified through analyses on risks of chemical exposures  and the frequency and nature of their operations. 3% of  contractors were identified as high risk bearers, and TSMC  has been committed to reducing their risk of occupational  diseases from chemical exposure. In 2020, contractors  registered lower Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate (FR)  and Disabling Severity Rate (SR) than those of the previous  year, but there were still three vendors that suffered from  occupational accidents on TSMC fabs. The accidents  resulted in a loss of 262  working days. For mitigation  measures, please see Improvement Highlights.   
0.03 0.03 2 0.07 5 0.10 
Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR)  
2018 2020 2017 2019 
Disabling Severity Rate (SR)  
TSMC demonstrated the operation and maintenance of the fire  extinguishing system. 
   TSMC dispatched its occupational physicians to  inspect on-site contractor operations and analyze  the risks of chemical exposure 
   Asked contractors to report to TSMC any abnormal  results from special health examinations  
   Continued updating the Contractor ESH Bluebook  with vendor feedback  
   On-site contractors were guaranteed zero risks of  chemical exposure in TSMC  
   0 reported cases of abnormal health examination  results 
   The Contractor ESH Bluebook has been updated  per vendor feedback and republished to ensure  readers have the latest information  
Sustainable Measures in 2020  
Achievements 
On-site Supplier Support Program  
TSMC is committed to creating a better workplace  environment and therefore launched the On-Site  Supplier Support Program in 2020 to support on- site supplier working at entry-level positions in  Taiwan fabs. In addition to minimum wage and  legal work hour guarantees, TSMC is planning  a 2-stage workplace upgrade program that will  benefit 7,000 people.  
In 2020, TSMC interviewed cleaning staff, cafeteria  staff, and security service staff to gain more insight  into their daily work and subsequently outlined  ways to improve their work situations as part of  the Support Program. As of now, TSMC has added  rest areas, made communication tools accessible,  and ensured health check-ups in all employees. In  2021, TSMC will commence the second stage of the  support program to target tank truck drivers and  truck drivers. We are looking to create a friendly  supplier workplace by improving their workflows  and offering better workplaces facilities. 
Case Study 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Onsite cleaning staff,  cafeteria staff, and  security service staff 
Tank truck drivers  and truck drivers 
Identify Problems  Stage Targets 
Failed to offer health checkups to  all suppliers on a shift system  
Cannot bring personal  cellphones into the workplace  due to fab regulations  
Cannot use mobile phones  or rest areas while waiting  during deliveries  
Long waiting time  during deliveries  
Lack of rest areas  
Required all fabs to ensure all suppliers have  received health check-ups and to confirm in  the Fab Work Permit System 
Evaluate the system to reduce waiting time by  adopting technologies such as license plate  identification and computerized operations  
Optimize rest areas to include beds or  similar facilities, and specific areas for  using personal mobile phones  
Offered free company-regulated  mobile phones to all suppliers  who need the phones  
Added rest areas in new fabs   reserved conference rooms as  rest areas for existing fabs  
Implement Change  
Ongoing Ongoing 
Taiwan  Facilities 
Fabs Completion Rate 
Strengthen Safety Guidance at  Construction Sites  
To ensure construction workers' safety during fab construction,  
TSMC is working with contractors to build a safe construction  
site and strengthen safety management organizations of  
the construction sites. Contractors, construction site safety  
committee, and TSMC are working together in a three-level  
management system to guarantee safety on construction  
In 2020, TSMC invited senior executives from third- 
level contractor companies to participate in the TSMC  
Construction Contractor Worksite Safety Symposium in an  
Construction Site Safety Measures 
Compile 170 items  for safety analysis on  36 Safety Guidance  Programs and then  develop 163 SOPs based  on safety analysis  
Risk Identification 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Contractor Safety  Safety Guidance  Program  
effort to strengthen their resolve in construction site safety  management. During the meeting, all parties signed the  Declaration of Construction Site Safety and invited a team of  outside experts to improve safety awareness and knowledge  in frontline safety supervisors. The experts offered insight into  the three main stages of risk identification, safety oversight,  and inspections. Based on risk identifications, the experts  then offered suggestions to each contractor to help build a  more robust safety management system.   
TSMC regularly works with 5 civil engineering contractors  and 3 steel structure contractors that engage in a higher  percentage of high-risk operations. To ensure safety of the  construction sites, TSMC invited outside experts in 2020 to  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
TSMC guides contractors  through safety analyses so that  contractors become familiar with  the approach and can extend  it to other projects and ensure  construction risk control  
Invite outside experts and  contractor managers to work  safety meetings to review  construction risks identified 
Management Guidance 
On-site Evaluation 
conduct a 3-month, high-intensity on-site evaluation. The  
results and recommendations are provided to the responsible  
unit for future improvements. Construction site safety failures  
were compiled into training materials based on operations,  
techniques, and regulations. A three-hour training was then  
held at a Construction Office  300 frontline safety personnel  
and supervisors attended.  
Beginning in 2021, TSMC will strengthen control measures on  
openings to reduce risks of construction workers falling into  
floor holes. During the same time, TSMC will also launch the  
Contractor Self-Management Program for Construction Safety  
that requires the contractor's environmental protection and  
Note 1: Senior executives from contractors were required to sign a Declaration of Construction Site Safety during the Construction Contractor Worksite Safety Symposium in 2020 Note 2: TSMC commissioned the Safety and Health Technology Center in 2020 to assist safety trainings and guide contractors to design and implement safety plans  
Contractor 1 Contractor 2 Contractor N 
3 Construction  Projects TSMC 
Construction Safety Committee 
   Supervisor 
   Construction Safety Engineer 
   Environmental Safety Engineer 
   Electricity Use Engineer 
safety unit to conduct monthly site inspections. Any issues and  
changes will be reported to senior executives in the contractor  
company but TSMC will also request reports from time to time  
to ensure compliance. Quarterly safety meetings are held for  
civil engineering contractors and steel structure contractors  
with high occupational accident rates. Senior executives from  
contractors are required to explain safety performances of the  
quarter, mitigation measures, and prevention measures. By  
engaging senior executives and getting them to pay attention  
to construction site safety, TSMC is introducing a top-down  
safety management system in construction sites. In the event  
of accidents, TSMC may suspend or terminate contracts  
depending on the severity of the situation.  
Level          3 Note1 
Level          1 Note2 
Management from TSMC and Contractors  Promises and authorizes safety officials the  power to supervise and make decisions  
Contractors must conduct construction  site inspections, correct failures, and  establish prevention measures  
Safety Supervisor Commissioned by  Safety Committee  
Supervise All Construction Site  Contractors must ensure effective  on-site supervision by increasing the  professionalism and training efficacy of  safety officials health 
Contractor Safety Officials and Supervisors  Supervise Contractor Workers  Contractors must establish  management and certification system  for occupational safety and health 
Construction Site Safety Efforts and Achievements 
   Increased professionalism and trainings of  construction safety officers. Construction workers  were required to receive construction site safety  trainings before getting work permits  
   Invited outside experts to instruct contractors  and increase safety awareness and knowledge in  frontline site safety supervisors  
   Required contractors to establish a certification  system for health management systems and  occupational safety and health  
   Require all high-risk operation contractors  to obtain occupational safety and health  management system certifications  
   Confirm that contractor owners are aware of his  her responsibilities detailed in the Occupational  Safety and Health Act and has personally  participated in the Occupational safety and  health Committee to improve previous oversight  
   Authorize on-site construction site safety officers  to suspend construction work when necessary to  prevent occupational accidents  
   All construction workers received construction  site safety training  10 trainings were held for  construction site safety officers from contractors  
   1 new contractor received certification and all of  the 34 high-risk operation contractors received  ISO certification for occupational safety and health  management  the target for all contractors to receive  certification was met  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
New Measures  in 2020  
Substainable Measures  
Achievements  
TSMC Construction Contractor Worksite Safety Symposium   TSMC Executives Reiterate the Importance of Site  Safety Management 
TSMC Construction Contractor Worksite  Safety Symposium    Safety Declaration by Senior Executives from  Contractor Companies 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Construction Site Safety  Guidance Program   Training 
Construction Site Safety Guidance    On-site Inspections by Experts 
Fall Prevention Training  
Double Hook Safety Harness Training  
Invested into liberal arts and  science education for youth  and to strengthen the equality  of educational right 
Power to Change Society 
Based in Taiwan, TSMC has flourished with support from all sectors of society. TSMC  believes that giving back to the community has been critical to our success. We've been  caring for the disadvantaged, helping youth education, supporting arts and culture  through the TSMC Education and Culture Foundation and TSMC Charity Foundation to  give back and create common values.  
The Drive for Common Good P.166 TSMC Education and Culture Foundation P.167 TSMC Charity Foundation P.176 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Million(NT   
Collaborated with 15  medical and care centers,  providing 10,855 services to  seniors through the Network  of Love 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
92 organizations supporting  the disadvantaged regularly  benefit from the Cherish  Food Program, with a total of  37,071 beneficiaries   
Beneficiaries  
The Driving Force for  Common Good 
UN Sustainable Development  Goals (SDGs) TSMC ESG Policies Social Needs 
Environmental Protection 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Cultivate Young  Generation  
Promote Filial Piety 
Educational Collaboration 
Care for Elders  Living Alone 
Care for the Disadvantaged 
Promote Arts  and Culture 
   The Cherish Food Program makes  food  donation  to disadvantaged groups by cooperating with food  companies    Volunteers help students raise environmental  protection awareness and improve campus safety 
NPOs, Social Welfare Organizations, Disadvantaged Groups, Schools,  Students, and Tainan Jacana Ecology Education Park 
Cultivate youth talents in  science and arts   culture High School and University Students 
   Donation of the Exhibition Hall "The World  
of Semiconductors" to the National  Museum of Natural Science    TSMC Journeys of Female Scientists Lectures 
   TSMC Youth Dream Building Project  
   Help PackAge Plus become a social enterprise  
   TSMC Youth Literature Awards 
Primary Schools, the Public, TSMC Colleagues Raise awareness of filial  piety among young  generations    Participate in the government's filial piety project 
   Produce free filial piety teaching materials 
   Hold filial piety parent-child workshops 
Elders Living Alone with Low Income, Care Centers for Seniors Living Alone  Improve the welfare of  elders living alone    Improve care system through Networking of Love 
   Sunrise Program Scholarship, Sunflower Program  Scholarship, Star Program Scholarship, Chia Star  Program Scholarship, South Star Program Scholarship    Donate infrared body temperature imagers to help  schools combat COVID-19    Sponsor education funding to Emei Junior High School 
   Sponsor Junyi Academy 
   Sponsor Teach for Taiwan 
   Donate digital medical equipment to improve service 
   TSMC volunteers have long accompanied elders living  
Educationally Disadvantaged Students and Schools in Rural Areas 
Disadvantaged Groups 
 Arts and Cultural Groups and Local Rresidents  
   TSMC Hsin-Chu Art Festival 
   Sponsor NSO Music Educational Program  
   Sponsor celloist Yo-Yo Ma and pianist Kathryn Stott's  Recital Concert "Songs of Comfort and Hope"    TSMC Lectures 
   Provide online teaching materials, donate high-tech  machines and empower teachers with digital ability    Have computer programing and AI courses as well as  camps to promote science education.    Promote vocational education with governments  
and corporates 
Social Impact Target Groups and Measures 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
   Eco-volunteers promote green education 
   Set up solar panels for schools in rural areas 
   Design picture books for TSMC ecological  
parks to promote environmental protection    Others: Beach Cleanup  
   TSMC Youth Calligraphy and Seal Carving Awards 
   Kenneth Hsien-Yung Pai Literature Lectures 
   Wu Chien-Shiung Science Camp 
   Madame Curie Chemistry Camp 
   Sponsor Gou Guang Opera Company "Successor  of Taiwan Peiking Opera Youth Talent  Cultivation Project" 
   TSMC volunteers bring filial piety materials  
to campus    Others: Involve filial piety concepts into  
fab activities 
alone, serve at care centers and public  welfare organizations     Others: Send food to seniors  hold  outdoor activities 
   Sponsor radio lecture series on the  
Classics of Chinese Literature    16 Years Old Festival x TSMC Youth Theater  Project    Sponsor Taiwan New Year Concert 
   Sponsor BOYO Social Welfare  
Foundation After School Class Project    Hope Reading 2.0 
   Aesthetic education and science tours 
   Sponsor Taiwan BaseGarden Baseball  Development Association    Sponsor Taiwan Aboriginal Baseball  
   Provide emergency relief and housing repairs  to improve peoples' economic and living  environment safety    TSMC volunteers accompany disadvantaged  groups and help social welfare organizations    Others: Group Buying 
Development Association 
Raise awareness among  students and the public  regarding environmental  protection 
Reduce environmental  impacts brought by  energy consumption  
Realize equal educational  right with educational  resource investments 
Pass on Chinese cultural  heritage and foster  outstanding arts and cultural  groups in Taiwan  
Enhance  the environment  of local arts and culture in  society 
Raise education and  living standards of the  disadvantage 
TSMC is committed to its ESG Policy, and focuses on SDGs and social  
needs, and works to reduce resource gaps between rural and urban  
areas through public welfare activities to achieve the goal of  
Note: Social contributions include related activities from TSMC (University  Cooperation Program), TSMC Education and Culture Foundation, TSMC Charity  Foundation and TSMC staff (volunteer service, charity donation), and TSMC  Welfare Committee. 
common good. The TSMC Education and Culture Foundation  
strives to cultivate youths, and promotes diversified  
education by focusing on education for disadvantaged  
49.5% Charitable Donations  13.4% Community Investments  37.1% Commercial Initiatives 
youth and providing students with various platforms  
How We Contributed Motive for Contribution 
outside of the formal education system. TSMC is also  
growing the seed of love for the arts in society to  
work towards the goal of SDG 4 Quality Education.  
Moreover, the TSMC Charity Foundation is  
committed to long-term volunteer service. In order  
to achieve the targets of SDG 1, 3, and 4, which  
cover No Poverty, Good Health and Well-being,  
and Quality Education, respectively, the charity  
foundation serves the disadvantaged as well as  
elder people living alone, and promotes filial  
piety and environmental protection. 
Our Social Contributions 
76.4% In-kind Giving 
2.6% Management Overheads 
Total    1,318,144,601 
11.0% Cash Contribution 
TSMC Education and   Culture Foundation 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Promote Arts and Culture 
Hold art festivals to foster local  art groups 
Cultivate Young Generation 
Hold educational events  provide  diversified educational platforms 
Educational Collaboration 
Cooperate with educational  organizations to narrow the gap  in educational resources 
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
   Continue to cooperate with educational  organizations, investing in resources of more  than NT 15 million  
   Hold at least ten popular semiconductor  science activities 
   Sponsor ten local talented artists or art groups  
   Ensure overall competition participation is  higher than the previous year 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
   Offer scholarships for underprivileged students  to five universities  
   Continuously sponsor education funding to the  Public   Private Experimental Emei Bilingual  Junior High School  
   Ensure the participant number of youth competiton  events is higher than the previous year 
   Hold at least six popular semiconductor  science activities  
   Continuously organize the TSMC Hsin-Chu Art  Festivals and sponsor at least five talented  local artists or groups annually  
   Organize at least 15 humanities lectures in college   
   Continuously organize at least four TSMC Lectures 
   Provided a total of NT 7 million in scholarship to 70  underprivileged students from five universities   
   Sponsored education funding to the Public   Private  Experimental Emei Bilingual Junior High School 
   Donated 100 infrared body temperature imagers to  the Ministry of Education during Covid-19  
   Donated exhibition hall "The World of Semiconductors"  to the National Museum of Natural Science as to promote  popular science education 
   Held five TSMC Journeys of Female Scientist Lectures  
   Youth Competition events attracted a total  of 1,551 participants, an increase of 47  participants from 2019      
   TSMC Hsin-Chu Art Festivals cancelled due to Covid-19  
   Sponsored NSO Music Educational Program  
   Sponsored recital concert "Songs of Comfort and Hope" 
   TSMC Lectures held four humanities lectures   
   Organized 17 Kenneth Hsien-Yung Pai Literature Lectures  
Target: Offer scholarships for underprivileged students to  5 universities  
Target: Hold at least 3 popular semiconductor science  activities and semiconductor camps  
Target: The number of youth event participants is  higher than the previous year  
Target: Continuously organize the TSMC Hsin-Chu Art  Festivals and sponsor at least 5 talented local artists or  groups annually  
Target: Continuously organize at least 4 TSMC Lectures  
Target: Organize at least 15 humanities lectures in college  
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
To fulfill TSMC Company's corporate social responsibility,  
TSMC Education and Culture Foundation, established  
in 1998, contributed NT 99.85 million in 2020 into  
3 engagements: "Cultivate Young Generation",  
"Educational Collaboration", and "Promote Arts and  
Culture". The Foundation worked hand-in-hand with  
educational organizations  from both the public and  
private sectors to care for young generation and hope to  
cultivate well-rounded talents in this new era  through  
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 0 
Sponsorship from the TSMC Education and  Culture Foundation between 2016-2020 
7,581 7,679 7,681 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
9,732 9,985 
Unit: NT  ten thousand 
various competitions and popular science education  
programs, the Foundation endeavored to lead youths  
toward self-exploration and pursuit of their dreams. The  
Foundation also held cultural events and sponsored  
local art groups to contribute to the community as well  
as enrich the public's appreciation for the arts.  
Sponsorship from the TSMC Education  and Culture Foundation in 2020  
Contributed Total Amount  
NT  99.85 million  
For further information about the events and the sponsorships,  please refer to the official website of the TSMC Education and  Culture Foundation.  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Cultivate Young  Generation 
Educational  Collaboration 
Promote Arts  and Culture 
   Promote popular  science to nurture  science talents in  the future  
   Establish diversified  platforms to  encourage the  youth to explore  themselves  and enrich their  humanistic quality  
Cultivate  Young  Generation  
Core Engagement 
   Collaborate with  public schools  
   Collaborate with non- profit educational  organizations  
Educational  Collaboration  
   Promote online  cultural activities  in response to the  impact of COVID-19  
   Promote the  Humanities and  Chinese Classics 
Promote Arts and  Culture 
Cultivate Young  Generation  
Our Actions 
   Promote Popular Science to Foster Science  Talents in the Future 
   Establish Diversified Platforms to lead the  Youth toward Self-Exploration and the  Humanities 
What We Want to Solve  
Due to the absence of literary, aesthetics,  science, and self-exploration curriculum in the  current high school and higher education, young  students lack the opportunities to dig out and  embody their talents. 
How We Respond 
In 2020, the Foundation contributed a total of  NT 40.86 million to hold various competitions,  camps, lectures to inspire students' interest in  science and the humanities as well as to lead them  toward self-exploration and pursuit of their dreams. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Promote Popular Science to  Foster Future Science Talent Donate the Exhibition Hall The World  of Semiconductors to the National  Museum of Natural Science  To promote popular science education, lead the  
of Integrated Circuit to the National Museum of  
Natural Science in 1997. In 2002 and 2011, TSMC  
Education and Culture Foundation again sponsored  
the renovation of the exhibition hall. The exhibition  
hall, renamed The World of Semiconductors in 2011,  
general public to learn about the IC industry, and  
to cultivate future semiconductor talents, the  
Foundation sponsored the exhibition hall The World  
"I'm grateful for having the opportunity to give back to  
society after retirement. Volunteering at the National  
Museum of Natural Science has given profound  
meaning to my retirement." 
keeps providing knowledge on semiconductors to  
visitors since then. In order to update the contents of  
the exhibition to keep up with the rapid advancement  
of technology, the Foundation organized the third  
renovation, and The World of Semiconductors  
exhibition hall officially opened in August 2020.  
  NT 40.86 million 
was contributed for popular  science education 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
 Ming-Chieh Guan, TSMC retiree   exhibition volunteer  
The new exhibition hall features five major sections:  
Discovery, Application, Progress, Innovation, and  
Imagination. With the latest interactive display and AR  
technique the exhibits lead the general public to realize  
the science knowledge of semiconductors as well as the  
prospect and history of the industry. The tour services  
at the exhibition hall are provided by volunteers from  
the TSMC Charity Foundation, encouraging TSMC  
retirees to take part in the volunteer program. Along  
with the exhibitions, the TSMC volunteers continued to  
contribute to the society by sharing the knowledge in  
the semiconductors.   
Organize the TSMC Journeys of  Female Scientists Lectures   
To inspire female students' interest in semiconductors,  
in 2020, the Foundation held five Female Scientists  
lectures for five girls' senior schools, 200 female students  
in total, at National Museum of Natural Science. Apart  
from having female employees from TSMC to provide  
tour services, acclaimed female scientists, such as  
Physics Professor Ming-Feng Tai form National Tsing Hua  
University etc. were invited to share their trajectories of  
study and careers. The Foundation hope that the tour  
could inspire female students to unlock their potential  
and then embark on the study of science. The Foundation  
will extensively invite 12 girls' senior schools to join in the  
tour in 2021.   
 "There is no gender difference when one shines  
in their professional field. Women can be equally  
accomplished as men." 
 Participant from Stella Matutina Girls's  High School  
Atayal children at the Exploration Theater area. 
Dr. Mark Liu, Chairman of TSMC, Dr. F.C. Tseng, Chairman of  TSMC Education and Culture Foundation, and Sophie Chang,  Chairperson of TSMC Charity Foundation, visit the exhibition hall  along with children at the Application of Semiconductors section. 
TSMC Female Scientist Lectures Mi-Hua Lin, Deputy Manager  of Research and Development, explains semiconductor  processing to students.  
Organize the 5 th TSMC Youth Dream  Building Project to Encourage  the Young Generation Care about  Environmental Sustainability  
Establish Diversified  Platforms to Lead the Youth  toward Self-Exploration and  the Humanities  
Since 2016, the Foundation has been funding TSMC Youth  
Dream Building Project, providing an annual 3-million  
grant for dream building projects and encouraging  
college students to care about social issues, embark on a  
journey of self-discovery, and provide creative solutions.  
A total of NT 3 million Award is granted to help students  
make their dreams come true.  
The fifth Youth Dream Building Project was held in 2020.  
Apart from inviting students from Taoyuan, Hsinchu,  
Miaoli, and Tainan areas to submit their projects, the  
competition further invited students from Taichung area  
to participate. Under the theme of circular economy,  
the competition attracted 102 groups of students from  
36 universities to submit their proposals. The proposals  
presented by the teams cover various areas in our  
society: from creating a popular science column on  
102 groups  
of students participated TSMC Youth  Dream Building Project  
Check out 4 th TSMC Youth Dream Building  Project Highlight Video  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
semiconductors, to a reclaim woods project, to an anti- 
drug campaign, and to making custom animal prosthetics  
for stray dogs. A total of NT 3 million were granted to  
eight groups  that were selected into the final round.  
In order to resonate better with young people and the  
TSMC employees on the theme of "circular economy", the  
Foundation initiated a special pilot project of "Aesthetic  
Cycle." A special glass recycling machine was set up by the  
Foundation at the headquarters of TSMC to encourage  
employees to recycle glass waste created from their  
daily life. Over a thousand pieces of family glass waste  
were collected through the machine in two months. The  
project invited Spring Pool Glass and Design Lab led by  
Prof. Beatrice Chiang of National Tsing Hua University  
to recycle glass waste into recycled bottles and created  
an art installation of "Aesthetic Cycle." The installation  
   "I want to express my gratitude to the TSMC Education and Culture Foundation for putting so much effort in organizing  
the activities. 'Care for the Earth through Small Acts' was a successful learning-through-play project. The activities catered  
to children's interest and level of literacy, and were able to help children form habits of recycling and waste reduction." 
Teams selected in the first round of the fifth Youth Dream  Building Project visit TSMC Museum of Innovation. "Aesthetic Cycle" Glass Art Installations, designed by the design team  led by professor Yi-Ying Chiang, Department of Arts and Design, NTHU. 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
displays icons of Taiwanese landscape and signifies  
the core concept of "loving nature and respecting the  
humanity" and is displayed currently at the square of  
TSMC Museum of Innovation.  
In addition, the Foundation invited the Daidai Rebag team,  
two times winning team from the Youth Dream Building  
Project competition, to run a series of environment  
protection activities at the TSMC Preschool, not only  
through illustrated books reading and game playing to  
promote the idea of environmental protection in 2020, but  
through repurposing the children's own old clothes into  
bags. Hence the children learn how to classify and recycle  
waste. The Foundation expects our next generation would  
grow to be environmentally friendly through small acts  
in everyday life and put the new generation concepts of  
environmental education into action.   
  Mei-Lan Tsai, Principal of TSMC Preschool  
Children learned  about recycling at TSMC Preschool. 
Children at TSMC Preschool transformed used-clothes into  recycle bags. 
  "I'm very grateful that the TSMC Youth Dream Building  
Project provided us with the opportunity to pursue  
our dreams. The future is unforeseeable, but from this  
experience, I have gathered a little bit more of courage  
to believe in my dreams and in turn embark on this long,  
bumpy journey." 
 Hsuan Chen, a team member from "The Bridge of Tails", one of  the selected teams in the fourth Youth Dream Building Project  
Plus, the TSMC representative team, won second  
Reusable package designed by PackAge Plus. 
place in the final round of the competition. Through  
providing reusable packaging service, PackAge Plus  
Fund PackAge Plus to Become     
A Social Enterprise  
In 2019, the TSMC Education and Culture Foundation  
participated in the ATCC Case Competition. PackAge  
NT 1 million startup funds. PackAge Plus changed the  
Calligraphy and Literature Contests 
To enrich the youth's humanistic quality, the TSMC  
Foundation provides all kinds of educational platforms  
existing e-commerce packaging practices by successfully  
producing ten thousand pieces of reusable packaging  
in 2020 and it will continuously expand its influence on  
environmental sustainability.   
endeavors to establish a plastic-free online shopping  
reward mechanism and later set up a social enterprise  
after the competition. To assist the team in continue  
to their dreams and promoting the idea of circular  
economy, the Foundation sponsored PackAge Plus  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Before Becoming an Adult, attracting a total of 831  
and Seal-Carving Competition in 2020. Through these  
competitions, the Foundation hopes to encourage  
young students throw themselves into literature and  
calligraphy. 
The 17 th TSMC Youth Literature Award, with the theme  
Youth Literature Award and the 13 th TSMC Calligraphy  
Carving Competition was "Antidote", which incorporated  
Chinese herbal medicine into visual design and Chinese  
for young students to shine, such as the 17 th TSMC  
the course with Department of Chinese Literature. The  Students from Chengyuan High School at Huang Yung-Sheng  Chinese Herbal Medicine Pharmacy. 
submissions, up 12 percent from the previous year. The  
Foundation also organized 4 campus lectures, where  
Taiwan's renowned writers shared their abundant writing  
experiences and gave guidance to students on writing  
techniques and ways of perception. The Foundation also  
used social media to raise people's interest in literature.  
For instance, the TSMC Youth Literature Facebook Page  
gained nearly 14 thousand followers, and an individual  
work was shared by over 3 thousand times. 
In 2020, the theme of 13 th TSMC Calligraphy and Sea- 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Exclusive Sponsorship Kenneth  Hsien-Yung Pai Literature Lectures:  Dream of the Red Chamber 
Chamber at National Tsing Hua University and co-designed  
Students from Chengyuan High School at Chien-Yuan Chinese  Herbal Medicine Pharmacy. Writer Kenneth Hsien-Yung Pai in a lecture. 
Dedicated to promoting Chinese Classics, in 2020 the  
Foundation initiated its exclusive sponsorship for the Hsien- 
yung Pai Literature Lecture Series on Dream of the Red  
calligraphy. An walking tour event "Medicine Cures the  
Body, Calligraphy Cures the Heart" was organized for the  
opening of the competition. The activity invited Chinese  
calligraphy artist Mr. Gu Yao-Hua to take students and  
teachers to Chinese herbal medicine pharmacies on  
Di-hua Street. In addition to learning about traditional  
Chinese herbal medicine and tools, the students also  
realized the history of these pharmacies as well as  
got a chance to appreciate the plaques collection,  
prescriptions and vintage accounting books, written by  
famous calligraphers. Those events attracted a total of  
607 participants. 
understanding of Chinese culture. The course attracted  
over 500 students to enroll, and a limited number of seats  
were reserved for students from National Hsin-Chu Senior  
High School and National Hsinchu Girls' Senior High School  
to audit the lectures. In compliance with the COVID-19  
prevention measures, the first three classes lectures were  
physical lectures, and the rest 14 lectures were conducted  
online. The complete lectures course can be accessed via  
NTHU OpenCourseWare and the official website of TSMC  
Education and Culture Foundation at viewers' convenience. 
were guided to appreciate the human nature and sensibility  
of Dream of the Red Chamber and to gain a better  
course aimed to deepen students' humanistic literacy,  
and to give NTNU, a top-notch university in science and  
engineering, a more humane touch. The 3-month course,  
comprising of 17 lectures, invited Hsien-Yung Pai, a literary  
master in Taiwanese Literature, writers, and scholars from  
Taiwan and abroad to talk about the classic novel from  
their area of research focus literature, aesthetics, gender,  
drama, and modern technology and many more, and share  
their perspectives on Dream of the Red Chamber. Students  
Educational  Collaboration 
Our Actions 
   Collaboration with Public Schools 
   Collaboration with Nonprofit Educational  Organizations 
What We Want to Solve  
An unequal right to education experienced by  children from underprivileged and skipped- generation families in rural and less accessible  areas due to a lack of digital learning resource  and stable source of diversified and suitable  educational resource. 
How We Respond 
The Foundation has long been caring for  educational issues since its establishment. In  2020, the Foundation contributed NT 39.69  million and collaborated with educational  organizations from both the private and public  sectors, aiming to increase learning motivation  of educationally disadvantaged students, by  providing suitable learning resource to improve  their studies. In addition, in hopes of narrowing  gaps in educational resource, and to response to  the New K-12 Compulsory Education Curriculum,  the Foundation also assisted to develop online  literacy courses and the teacher training  program. Moreover, scholarships were provided  to help lessen disadvantaged college students'  financial burden when pursing higher education.  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Collaborate with Public Schools Continuously to Provide Scholarship  and Digital Learning Equipment for  Disadvantaged College Students 
Dedicated to assisting outstanding yet economically  
disadvantaged students, the Foundation sponsored NT 7  
million to 70 disadvantaged students from five universities  
including: Sunrise Program Scholarship (National Tsing  
Hua University), Sunflower Program Scholarship (National  
Central University), Star Program Scholarship (National  
Cheng Kung University), South Star Program Scholarship  
(National Sun Yat-sen University). Chia Star Program  
Scholarship (National Chung Cheng University) in 2020.  
The scholarship programs ease students' financial burden,  
Number of Students Sponsored by TSMC Education and Culture Foundation (2016-2020) 
Sunrise Program  Scholarship at  National Tsing Hua  University 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Year 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Total 
Sunflower Program  Scholarship at  National Central  University 
Star Program  Scholarship at  National Cheng  Kung University 
Chia Star Program  Scholarship at  National Chung  Cheng University 
to strengthen the equality of  educational right 
  NT  39.69 million 
NT  7 million Disadvantaged college  students scholarship 
South Star Program  Scholarship at  National Sun Yat-sen  University 
The Total Number  of Scholarship  Recipients  
"It was heartwarming to have received a laptop computer. I  
never thought I could be using the kind of laptop computer  
my classmates are using. I would like to thank the TSMC  
Education and Culture Foundation for helping me." 
offer life and academic support, and help students focus  in school. In 2020, for the first time, the Foundation  provided 25 scholarship freshman recipients with a laptop  computer each to assist them in educational needs.  
Donate 100 Thermal Imagers to  Schools to Confront COVID-19 
As many schools around Taiwan couldn't get facilities that  can take multiple body temperature simultaneously, and  in turn worried that students would be affected by such  pandemic prevention and control loophole, the Foundation  contacted the Ministry of Education and donated 100  thermal imagers. The imagers were distributed to 25  universities, 45 high schools, and one junior school, and  were prioritized for usage in 3 large-scale examinations  the Comprehensive Assessment Program for Junior  High School Students, TVE (Technological   Vocational  Education) Joint College Entrance Examinations, and  College Advanced Subject Test, to increase efficiency in  body temperature monitoring of test students. 
 Ms. Chang, Recipient of Sunrise Program Scholarship 
330,000 test-takers benefited from  thermal imagers 
Collaborate with Nonprofit  Educational Organizations Funding to turn over the Experimental  Education at Emei Junior High School,  Hsinchu County  
The Foundation has long been caring for rural education  
in Taiwan. In 2020, the Foundation joined hands with  
the Cheng Zhi Foundation to realize a shared vision of  
providing rural areas with equal access to education  
resource. A three-year education funding sponsorship  
was provided to Emei Junior High School, the first  
KIST (Knowledge-Is-Power-Program Inspired Schools  
in Taiwan, KIST) school to give students a more equal  
Students and faculty were invited to "NSO Chamber Concerts Ray   Friends" (jointly performed by the internationally acclaimed  violinist Ray Chen and the National Symphony Orchestra at the National Concert Hall) to enhance student' music literacy. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Students explained the art of making tea to Ray Chen. An exchange on music and culture, titled "Music Teacher of the  Day": Ray Chen was invited to be the Music Teacher of the Day at  Emei Junior High School to share his love and appreciation for  music to students and in return, culture exchanged by students. 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Music appreciation session, "A Guide to Vivaldi's The Four  Seasons", was arranged to introduce students to the world of  classical music. 
As the New K-12 Compulsory Education Curriculum  
took effect in 2019, the Foundation launched a media  
survey with the United Daily News-Vision Project in  
the same year, targeting teachers and students from  
1,500 junior and senior high schools to understand  
teache's needs in three areas: teacher qualification,  
teaching materials, and classroom hardware and  
software facilities. Survey results were then used as the  
basis for "Critical Thinking Ability Training", the online  
literacy course jointly designed by the Foundation and  
the Junyi Academy Foundation. The online course has  
reached more than 120 thousand views with a video  
completion rate of 90 percent by December, 2020. In the  
meantime, to familiarize teachers with course content,  
right to education in Hsinchu area. The Foundation also  
organized music education courses to cultivate the  
students' art appreciation.  
Junyi Digital Education Platform   Program 2.0 
teaching material and teaching method, 26 workshops  
involving 518 teachers in total were held. In addition,  
the Foundation also collaborated with 3 after-school  
classes for the disadvantaged in holding 5 workshops  
titled "Critical Thinking Teaching Workshop", where  
students were taught to cultivate critical thinking. 
"Thanks to the TSMC Education and Culture  
Foundation's joint effort in driving Taiwan's education  
technology development, and children are able to  
grow and improve in their learning process." 
 an excerpt from Junyi Academy Foundation 2020 Winter Issue 
of Critical Thinking Ability Training  Online Program 
 120,000 views  
Promote Arts  and Culture 
Our Actions 
   Promote Online Arts and Culture Events    
   Promote Humanities Classics 
What We Want to Solve  
Taiwan local art groups, without sufficient  resources in common, need more stages to  perform and support from public  meanwhile,  impacted by internet entertainment media,  traditional arts and culture inheritance both face  critical challenges. 
How We Respond 
In 2020, the Foundation planned to contribute  NT 37 million to organize high-quality arts and  culture exhibitions and performances to support  art groups. Due to the impact from COVID-19,  however, many exhibitions and activities were  canceled under such concerns. As the pandemic  showed signs of slowing down in the second half  of 2020, the Foundation contributed NT 7.23  million to sponsorships of arts education  programs and online streaming program. With the  help of technology, the Foundation could be able  to continue and to expand the promotion of arts.  
in Response to the Pandemic 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Note: Data accumulated from 1998 to 2020. 
Promote Online Arts and  Culture Events in Response to  the Pandemic 
The TSMC Foundation has been holding the Hsin-Chu  
Art Festival for 17 consecutive years since 2003, with a  
different theme for each year. Major art events are held  
regularly in Hsinchu, Taichung, and Tainan to lead the  
public experience the beauty of arts. In 2020, in response  
to the government's Covid-19 precaution regulations,  
the Foundation had to cancel the art festival. As the  
pandemic showed signs of slowing down in the second  
half of the year, two concerts were held and livestreamed,  
enabling art to reach wider corners during the pandemic. 
TSMC Education   Culture Foundation  Supports Local   International Art Groups 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
International  Group 20% 
Taiwaneses  Group 80% 
NSO Music Educational Program  
The TSMC Education and Culture Foundation initiated the  
NSO Music Educational Program together with National  
Symphony Orchestra (NSO) and Public Television Service  
(PTS). The program invited Ray Chen, a world-class Chinese  
violinist, to host a master class at the National Concert Hall,  
so that students in Taiwan had the opportunity to broaden  
their horizons in music. The master class was live-streamed  
globally with the help of technology, benefiting music  
students that couldn't attend classes in person. The online  
program has attracted 73,000 views. 
 "The world has changed because of the pandemic,  
and we wanted to do something a little different. We're  
really grateful for the sponsorship and support the  
TSMC Education and Culture has given to Ray Chen' s  
Master Classes. Such support enabled us to present  
the strength and beauty of music through the high  
resolution technology, and deliver the performing arts  
to a wider audience." 
of Ray Chen's Master Class 73,000 participants  
Check out Ray Chen master class Highlight Video  Check out Songs of Comfort and Hope Highlight Video  
 Wen-Chen Kuo, Executive Director of NSO 
of Comfort and Hope, featuring celloist Yo-Yo Ma and  
pianist Kathyrn Stott. The first concert was held at  
Tainan, where one of TSMC Fab sites is located. A total of  
1,600 music fans were attracted to the concert to enjoy  
these two world-renowned masters' performance. 
Sponsorship to Celloist Yo-Yo Ma and  Pianist Kathryn Stott's Recital Concert  "Songs of Comfort and Hope" 
Recital Concert "Songs of Comfort and Hope". 
The Foundation sponsored the concert tour Songs  
Promote Humanities Classics Sponsor Radio Lecture Series on the  Classics of Chinese Literature, and  Published Audio Books Professor Xin  Explains Laozi 
Professor Xin Explains Lao-Zhi audio book series was  
Professor Yi-Yun Xin at the Press conference of the Audio Books-  Professor Xin Explains Laozi Lecturer Dr. Ming-Ke Wang, Academician of Academia Sinica Group photo taken at 2020 16 Years Old Festival press conference. 
The Foundation has long been devoted to promotion  
and revitalization of the Chinese Classics Literature, and  
has sponsored Professor Yi-Yun Xin' s production of radio  
program series "Chinese Classic" for 10 consecutive years.  
In 2020, Professor Xin recorded and aired the 52 episodes  
of "Professor Xin Explains the Book of Songs", reaching  
a total of 800 thousand audience. In the same year,  
published and donated to 130 high schools in Taiwan,  
hoping more students in Taiwan can be exposed to such  
content. Furthermore, an accumulated total of 3,000  
sets of all published audio book series were donated to  
Chinese literature-related departments in 60 universities. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
TSMC Lectures 
Since 2014, the Foundation has held the TSMC Lectures  
to promote humanities and philosophy from the East and  
the West. In 2020, due to COVID-19's enormous impact  
on our lives, the Foundation invited Dr. Ming-Ke Wang, an  
Academician of Academia Sinica, to speak on Virus, Anti- 
Virus, and Witch Hunt: Collective Fear and Violence within  
Human Communities from an anthropological perspective  
to plow through the origin and cause of fear in different  
regions of different periods throughout history. Four  
lectures were organized, with a total of 442 participants. 
3,000 sets  
of audio book on the Classics of  Chinese Literature was donated 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Sponsor 16 Years Old Festival x TSMC  Youth Theater Project 
The Foundation has sponsored "16 Years Old Festival",  
organized by the Cultural Affairs Bureau, Tainan  
City Government, for four consecutive years. The  
festival derives from the 16-year-old rite of passage, a  
traditional ceremony practiced in the Tainan City, and  
has been working to establish a platform for youths  
to participate in arts and culture events through three  
approaches: Plays watching, Plays production, and  
Plays acting. The festival is open to registration for  
youth with an age from 16 to 18 , who are interested  in art performance and hope to express themselves  through performing. 
Each year, the "16 Years Old Festival" selects 50 youths  as participants, and as of 2020, over 30 participants have  chosen drama and theater related majors in university.  In 2020, the Festival was themed "Tshut Thuat" (to be  a promising youth), and had attracted more than 1,000  participants to the performances, interactive lectures,  workshops, Youths Act in Plays Project, and Assistant in  black dress (volunteering work at the Festival). 
TSMC Charity  Foundation 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Care for the Disadvantaged 
We care about inequality of  educational resources   emergency  aid in Taiwan and offer support  when necessary 
Care for Elders Living Alone 
We work with hospitals across Taiwan  through the Networking of Love system  and provide a variety of medical resources  to support medical care for elderly citizens  living alone 
Promote Filial Piety 
We collaborate with the Ministry of  Education, schools, media, and other  enterprises to promote filial piety  education at schools 
Environmental Protection  
We aim to reduce waste through the  Cherish Food Program. We also promote  environmental protection and energy  conservation through our energy- saving volunteers, eco-volunteers, and  corporate volunteers 
2030 Goals 2020 Achievements 2021 Targets Strategies 
Note1: In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, volunteer activities were suspended in accordance with related polices in the first half of 2020. Note2: The amount includes donations from TSMC volunteers and the Sending Love Forward project. These are cash donations, excluding goods donation, repair services or other donations. 
   Donate more than NT 1,800 million to the  disadvantaged each year 
   Offer 12,000 services to elderly citizens living  
   Promote filial piety education in 120  educational institutions 
   Over 50,000 annual cumulative beneficiaries of  the Cherish Food Program each year  
   Environment protection volunteers provide  services of over 1,200 times each year 
   Reading service exceed 9,000 hours     Provide more than 10,000 hours of reading  services each year 
   Help over 10,000 children in remote areas     Help over 4,000 children with the remote  education program 
alone through Networking of Love 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
   Donate over NT 1,300 million to the disadvantaged 
   Offer 11,000 services through the Networking of Love 
   Promote filial piety education at 60  educational institutions 
   Over 40,000 cumulative beneficiaries of  the  Cherish Food Program 
   Environment protection volunteers provide  services of 1,000 times 
   Over 37,071 cumulative beneficiaries of the Cherish  Food Program  
   Donated NT 12.1 million to the disadvantaged Note2  
   The remote education program  helped 3,279 children  
   Promoted filial piety education at 57 educational  institutions  
   Offered 10,855 services to elderly citizens living alone  
   Reading service exceeded 5,060 hours Note1  
   Environment protection volunteers provided services  of 1,044 times  
Target: 8,500 hours 
Target: NT 11 million 
Target: 2,000 children 
Target: 10,000 services 
Target: 50 
Target: 25,000 
Target: 1,000 times 
Achieved Exceeded Missed Target 
12,177 Volunteer Service  Times 
64,779 Service Hours 73,786 Beneficiaries 
3,825 million 
Social Contribution Note 10,451 Volunteers 
Note: Including cash donations, goods donation, repair services or other  indirect donations. 
Since its founding in 2017, the TSMC Charity Foundation  
has dedicated itself to four major areas: Caring for the  
Disadvantaged, Taking Care of Elder People Living Alone,  
Promoting Filial Piety, and Environmental Protection.  
In 2020, with Caring for the Disadvantaged as the main  
direction, TSMC Foundation also made Education in  
Remote Areas and Disadvantaged Aid the primary target,  
aiming to create complete plans for remote areas and  
help children acquire needed skills in the workplace.  
It is hoped that rural flight and talent gap issues could  
thereby be addressed. 
As the COVID-19 pandemic ravaged the world, the  
TSMC Charity Foundation called on TSMC's employees  
to donate money and industrial-grade protective  
equipment to support frontline health workers. The  
TSMC Charity Foundation also invited other charity  
partners to create a positive force within a society rocked  
by the pandemic. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
26,077 Donations 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Care for the  Disadvantaged 
   Close the Urban Rural  Divide with Empowerment  Projects for Education in  Remote Areas 
   Offer Financial Support and  Better Living Spaces for  Higher Quality of Life 
Care for Elders  Living Alone 
   Networking of Love  Partners Create  Services to Better  Serves 
   Strengthen Medical  Care and Repairs to  Improve Convenience  and Safety 
   TSMC Volunteers Serve  Elders to Enrich Their  Lives 
Core Engagement 
   Online Teaching  Materials to Promote  Filial Piety 
   Support the MOE  Warmth Project 
   Filial Piety Story-reading  to Raise Awareness 
   Let the Seeds of Filial  Piety Sprout Awareness 
Promote Filial Piety 
Environment Protection 
   Cherish Food Program Continues  to Grow 
   Volunteers Help Improve Energy  Efficiency 
   Eco-volunteers Sending the Green  Message 
   Tour Volunteers are the Bridge  Connecting the Public with  Semiconductors 
   Assist in Setting Up Solar Panels 
   Promote Environmental Protection  through Playlets 
Donations by the TSMC Charity Foundation 
Note 1: TSMC has categorized activities into cash, time, and goods   services according to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and then converted all forms of donations into a monetary unit (NT ) in order to calculate their percentage  time   volunteered hours average  wages  goods   services   the monetary amount of the goods   services donated by TSMC. 
Note 2: TSMC has categorized donations based on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index into charitable donations, community investments, and commercial initiatives, converting all donations into a monetary amount (NT ) in order to calculate their percentage. 
Note 3: Volunteers attending activities organized by the TSMC Charity Foundation include TSMC's current, former and retired employees, family members of TSMC employees, and volunteers from cooperative companies. 
Time NT 81,427,203 
Accumulated Volunteer Headcount Note3 Accumulated Service Times Accumulated Volunteer Service Hours 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
7,838 8,776 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
What We Donated Note1 How We Donated Note2 Projects We Supported 
NT 29,815,361 
Goods   Services NT 8,435,671 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Year Year Year 
Corporate Activities 3.2% NT 3,820,586 
72.7% NT 87,034,341 
119,678,235 Total NT  
Community  Investment 
Charitable Donations Caring for Elders  Living Alone 
24.1% NT 28,823,308 
Promoting Filial Piety 3.7% NT 4,370,920 
12.9% NT 15,392,358 
93,623 106,176 109,059 
74.9% NT 89,691,216 Caring for the  Disadvantaged 
Environment Protection 
8.5% NT 0,223,741 
Care for the  Disadvantaged  
Our Actions 
   Close the Urban  Rural Divide with  Empowerment Projects for Education  in Remote Areas 
   Offer Financial Support and Better  Living Spaces for Higher Quality of Life 
What We Want to Solve  
According to statistics from the Ministry of  Education in 2019, a total of 1,177 schools  are located in remote areas, accounting  for nearly 30% of total schools in Taiwan.  Those schools are facing instability from  turnovers, population migration, and  gaps in educational resources, therein  affecting the children s right to quality  education.  
How We Respond 
The TSMC Charity Foundation listed  Character Education, Subject-based  Education, and Vocational Education  as the three primary focuses. We  hope to uncover student potential by  providing educational resources based  on their needs. TSMC volunteers are  also collaborating with local schools  that implement University Social  Responsibility (USR) to build confidence  in students and empower them to give  back to their hometowns in the future.  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Note1: In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, volunteer activities were  suspended in accordance with related polices in the first half of 2020. 
Character Education  For Adaptive  Development  Reading Volunteers Regularly Visit and  Serve Children in Remote Areas  
Close the Urban Rural Divide  for Education in Remote Areas  through Empowerment Projects  
Division of the Legal Organization regularly travels to  
Yuandong Elementary School in Hsinchu and utilizes  
practical teaching materials and games to trigger  
children's interest in learning English. In 2020, reading  
volunteers totaled 689 times.   
Organization, and Fab 3 utilize online education  
resources to help children from Anding Elementary  
School in Tainan, Ruei Yuan Elementary School in  
Taoyuan, and Meihua Elementary School, Hexing  
Elementary School and Taoshan Elementary School  
in Hsinchu. In addition, the Corporate   Compliance  
Reading volunteers visit eight primary schools in remote  
areas of Hsinchu, Taichung, and Tainan every semester  
to read stories, teach English and math, and provide  
scholarships to motivate students to learn. In 2020,  
reading volunteers served a total of 1,012 times and  
provided over 5,060 hours of reading service.  
TSMC supports the Junyi Academy through regular  
employee donations to strive towards education  
equality. Volunteers from the Advanced Packaging  
Technology and Service Organization, Product  
Development Organization, Quality and Reliability  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Note 2: Refer to Promoting Filial Piety to learn more about filial piety event of Character multicultural education. 
Three Strategies for Rural Education 
Learning Accompany 
Implement University Social  Responsibility (USR)  Resources Invest in with  Teachers   Volunteers 
2020 5,060 hours of reading services 
2020 5,060 Note1 
"Emergency Aid for the Disadvantaged" and "Ten Thousand Dollar Per Household" 
Support donation from caring food manufacturers  
   Filial Piety  Events 
   Photography 
Multicultural  Education 
Family Support 
Food Support 
Subject-based  Education 
   Science  
(Science  AI  Computer Science) 
Legal Organization utilized practical teaching materials to trigger  children's interest in learning English. 
   Computer Repair 
   Air-conditioning  Repair 
   Hair Design 
Vocational Education 
Solar panels, cars, fuel,  air-conditioning, Internet,  repairs, freezers, computer  tablets 
Eyes on Us 
Volunteers with background in photography from Fab 2  
and Fab 5 are long-term volunteers to Yufeng Elementary  
School and Shilei Elementary School in Hsinchu  
County, teaching photography, holding exhibitions,  
and encouraging students to participate in national  
photography competitions to boost their confidence.   
A total of 224 children have benefitted from this program.  
In 2020, volunteers started teaching children how to use  
drones to record their lives and beautiful surroundings. 
Influence Society through Music 
Fab 14 cooperates with the Junyi Academy (which has  
continued to advocate for education in remote areas)  
and Teach for Taiwan to co-host charity concerts.  
The net profit of the 2 concerts held last year, which  
attracted 5,232 people, has been applied to foundation  
Fab 14 cooperated with education organizations to co-host  charity concerts. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
operations. Fab 2 and Fab 5 supported Holy Family for  
Special Education by inviting their team to perform at  
TSMC year-end parties and offering them a platform to  
showcase their talents. 
Subject-based Education Paving  
Enrich Learning Materials with Software    Hardware Resources 
The TSMC Charity Foundation collaborated with Junyi  Academy and TutorABC to bring in software, hardware,  and online courses to provide more diversified  materials for rural students. In 2020, a total of 96 tablet  PCs, 180 used computers, and 210 hours of online  English tutoring classes were provided. After the death  of Chen Junlang, the founder of Kid's Bookhouse, the  TSMC Charity Foundation took the initiative and began  assisting the bookhouse, matching local resources,  and inviting teachers and students from Senior Health    Care Management Indigenous Department of the  National Taitung University's. Every week, students  of the department will visit Kid's Bookhouse to tutor,  educate high-potential students, and close the  
education gap. 
educational institutions 62  in remote areas with software    hardware resources 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Work with Universities to Promote Smart  IoT   Improve Information Education in  Primary Schools 
In response to the information education trend  promoted by the Ministry of Education, the TSMC Charity  Foundation joined hands with the Strategy Development  Office of the National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University  to develop the first smart IoT teaching materials for  primary schools in Taiwan so as to enrich their current  courses. In 2020, following TSMC's strategies, providing  scholarships to students from National Yang Ming Chiao  Tung University as teaching assistants to serve at five  schools recommended by the Hsinchu City Government  Education Department. At the end of the same year,  31 primary schools joined this program  teachers and  students that participated gained further knowledge in  utilizing information technology.  
Promote Science Education with TSMC  Teaching Videos 
The Intelligent Engineering Center is a long-time partner  to Meihua Elementary School in Hsinchu County and  conducts experimental science education. In 2020, by  incorporating learning tasks and group competitions in  class, new scientific experiment programs were created,  allowing volunteers with no science background to teach  scientific experiments in a safe and fun way. We made six  teaching videos to attracted more volunteers from different  backgrounds to participate in the service. The Quality and  Reliability Organization and the Facility Division adopted  teaching the videos at the Baoshan Elementary School  in Hsinchu and the Hualien District Haili Holiday School  to teach students and make sure that they enjoyed the  
learning process  a total of 250 volunteers were involved.  
Organize AI Camps to Broaden Students'  Horizons 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is one of the main axes  
that the TSMC Charity Foundation focuses on  
in developing science education. In addition to  
continuing the program in cooperation with Microsoft  
Taiwan Corporation, the Foundation further  
cooperated with AI4kids and Kneron to arrange AI  
training courses for TSMC volunteers. In the same  
year, the Product Engineering department also  
invested in volunteer services, organizing a two-day  
AI camp for a total of 16 hours at Hexing Elementary  
School in Hsinchu. At the camp, students learned  
how to code an automatic parking lot identification  
system and a voice assistant for mobile phones  the  
exercises helped students learn that AI could be  
used in daily life. The camp further guided students  
to design AI modules on their own and strengthened  
their ability for scientific applications. 
The Intelligent Engineering Center conducted experimental  Science education with students in Meihua Elementary School in  Hsinchu County. 
  "Getting admitted to appliance maintenance class allows  me to receive good training and gain hands-on experience.  During the Chinese New Year,  I used what I learned to clean  the air conditioning at home and the elders praised me.  Thank you for giving me an useful skill." 
Vocational Education       Develop Children's Skills 
Cross-field Cooperation: Enterprises  Supporting Vocational Training 
By cooperating with the Pingtung County Government  
and Daikin Industries, Ltd., the TSMC Charity Foundation  
promotes vocational education and provides a 30-hour air- 
conditioning cleaning and maintenance course for students  
aged over 16 in Pingtung County. After training, students  
can get certifications and start working. Graduates are also  
encouraged to provide services to charity organizations  
as a way to give back to society. The Foundation further  
invited companies to join the program by organizing 2  
courses in 2020 to a total of 58 students. This year, Happy  
Hair is planning to provide training and opportunities to  
students interested in the hair salon industry. In addition,  
the Foundation called on TSMC's information system  
hardware contractors to jointly organize 3 vocational  
activities for students in the Changhua and Nantou rural  
areas, with a total of 60 students participating. 
Educate Students on Diverse Career Paths    Help Find a Path for Them 
In 2020, in order to unlock rural students' potential  
 Sin-An Chen , Student of National ChiaTung Agricultural  Vocational Senior High School   
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
  "Compared with children from areas with abundant  resources, children in rural areas generally lack  self-esteem. The TSMC Charity Foundation guides  students to discover their own potentials, affirm  their abilities, and see future possibilities so that  students could pay more attention to fields they  are interested in." 
Offer Financial Support and  Better Living Spaces for  Higher Quality of Life 
Financial Support for the  Disadvantaged 
In 2020, the TSMC Charity Foundation continued its  
cooperating with 104 Corporation, the TSMC Charity  Foundation invited 100 craftsmen from different fields  to film videos introducing their work and its required  skills, encouraging young people to explore different  careers. The Intelligent Manufacturing Center, Fab 8,  and the Quality and Reliability Organization provided  support to the St. Francis' Maiden's House, Hsinchu  City Renai Children's Home, and Miaoli St. Francis'  Nursery. The goal was to "Explore Skills for New Career  Possibilities", which hopes to inspire confidence and  interest in career development among students through  the TSMC career event day, practical agricultural career  experience, and DIY activities  116 students benefitted  from the program.  
and let them know more about different careers, by  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
  Hongyuan Lin, Principal of National Chiatung  AgriculturalVocational Senior High School 
efforts with the "Ten Thousand Dollar Per Household"  
and "Emergency Aid for the Disadvantaged"  
programs by providing financial support to  
disadvantaged families and families facing big  
challenges. By working with the different government  
social welfare departments, the Foundation visited  
disadvantaged families to understand their needs.  
The Foundation called people and companies to  
donate and worked with Sending Love Forward  
to find social resources for these households and  
to offer them basic necessities, benefitting 75  
households. 
Upgrade Campus Environment and  Equipment 
The Corporate Planning Organization has long been  
volunteering in after school classes in Zhudong,  
Erchongpu, and Xinpu of Hsinchu County. They  
discovered that most of the after school classes were  
short of funds and much of the teaching equipment was  
(Larger amounts of outside donations in 2018 for  disaster relief in Hualien) 
Donated NT 16.18 million to the disadvantaged 
Technology and Service Organization assisted in  
repairing 4 disadvantaged family houses in Yongkang  
District and Liuying District in Tainan, addressing the  
problems of water leakage and exposed pipelines.  
Caring for the Community  Volunteers  Help the Elderly and the Young 
Hsinchu Veterans Home and St. Teresa Children Center  
are TSMC' s long-term partners and TSMC volunteers visit  
the two organizations to bring warmth and joy through  
regular activities. In 2020, TSMC volunteers served the two  
organizations 503 times with 3,521 hours of service. 
Build a Safe Home to Give the  Disadvantaged Security 
In 2020, through the introduction and recommendation  
of the World Vision Taiwan, the Advanced Packaging  
old. Therefore, the Organization provided new tables and 
chairs and replaced old monitors to ensure a safe learning  
environment. InW 2020, the TSMC Charity Foundation  
assisted in the renovation of three classrooms to provide  
a comfortable environment for teachers and students. 
of community volunteer services  for 503 beneficiaries 3,521hours 
Support Local Social Welfare  Organizations to Overcome COVID-19  Challenges 
Volunteers from the Human Resource Organization,  Fab 6, Fab 8, Fab 12A, Fab 12B, Fab 14, the Intelligent  Manufacturing Center, and the Product Development  Organization assisted Luway Opportunity Center,  Sylin-Lu Social Welfare Foundation, Taiwan Fund for  Children and Families, and Shandao Academy in raising  funds for daily operations during the pandemic. The  Product Development Organization helped St. Camillus  Center for Intellectual Disability raise NT 1 million  for its equipment. Through TSMC i-Charity Platform,  Fab 6 invited TSMC employees to support the World  Vision Taiwan, raising NT 1.09 million. The Quality and  Reliability Organization assisted a private child-care  nursing home in Miaoli in raising NT 180,000, which  flattened the donation gap caused by the pandemic. 
The Advanced Packaging Technology and Service Organization  assisted in repairing disadvantaged family houses in Liuying  District in Tainan. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
TSMC Charity Foundation's Education Demonstration Sites in Rural Areas 
The TSMC Charity Foundation promotes rural  
education demonstration sites and, together with  
the Changhua County Government, introduced  
the three main strategies: Multicultural Education,  
Subject-based Education, and Vocational  
Education into 17 after-school classes, benefitting a  
total of 937 disadvantaged students.  
In terms of Multicultural Education, volunteers  
from Fab 15A and Fab 15B visit BOYO Changhua  
Center, Dazhuang Community After School Care  
Class, and Maxing Community After-school Care  
Class every other week to help students with  
their studies. To ensure sustainability, the Junyi  
Academy provides online teacher training to let  
more volunteers participate. As for Subject-based  
Education, the TSMC Charity Foundation has  
worked with the BOYO Social Welfare Foundation,  
also avid education advocates, to establish a  
location for after-school classes in Changhua. We  
offered tablets used computers and utilized online  
platforms such as TutorABC and the Junyi Academy  
to improve English and math abilities. Lastly, we  
worked with TSMC's computer equipment suppliers  
to organize computer maintenance courses for  
interested students. 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Case Study 
Vice President Lai Ching-te went to the Changhua Center to learn more about TSMC' s investment in rural education. 
  "Aiming for the common good, TSMC contributes not only to Taiwan's economy but also to  Taiwan's rural education." 
 Lai Ching-te, Vice President of the  Republic of China 
Care for Elders  Living Alone 
Our Actions 
   Networking of Love Partners Create  Services to Better Serves  
   Strengthen Medical Care and Repairs to  Improve Convenience and Safety  
   TSMC Volunteers Serve Elders to Enrich  Their Lives 
What We Want to Solve  
According to statistics from the Ministry of  Interior, R.O.C., Taiwan, Taiwan s population  showed negative growth in 2020. It is  estimated that, by 2025, Taiwan will become  a super-aged society with over 20% of our  population aged over 65. The number and  needs of disadvantaged elders and those  living alone may continue to grow.  
How We Respond 
The TSMC Charity Foundation works with  our medical and healthcare partners to share  information through Networking of Love.  We offer elders living alone with quality and  comprehensive care in an attempt to meet  their needs.  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Networking of Love Partners  Create Services to Better Serves  Cross-industry Sharing to Expand the  Supply of Elderly Care Services  
In 2020, the Networking of Love organized a cross- industry sharing event for the first time, inviting public  welfare partners from food, education, energy, and  other industries to share their experiences and inspire  each other. They cared for the elderly living alone  through online platforms and improved resource  efficiency. With 70 participants, the event opened up  more opportunities for cooperation.   
Strengthen Medical Care  and Repairs to Improve  Convenience and Safety  
Provide Sarcopenia Meters and  Shuttles to Improve the Quality of  Medical Treatment  
Inconvenient traffic and insufficient medical resources  
impact the quality of medical care in remote areas and  
10,855 services  
offered to elder citizens living alone  through Networking of Love 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
the elderly' s willingness to seek medical attention. In  
2020, the TSMC Charity Foundation received a request  
from the Zhudong Branch of the National Taiwan  
University Hospital, stating that the hospital needs  
portable Sarcopenia meters. The Foundation therefore  
invested NT 550,000 to support the hospital' s need so  
that the elderly can get proper care at home. In addition,  
the Foundation spent NT 900,000 on purchasing shuttle  
buses for the Longchang Cultural and Health Station in  
Dulan Village, Taitung County, which will be used to pick  
up physically challenged elders, overcoming the long  
distance between hospitals and their homes.    
Repair Houses to Provide a Safe Living  Environment for the Elderly 
The TSMC Charity Foundation and the Hualien Mennonite  
Foundation, through rigorous assessments, utilized their  
engineering experience of post-disaster reconstruction  
to help 7 elders living alone repair their houses to offer a  
safe living environment.  
           and small long-term care institutions  2 rural hospitals 
Purchased equipment for 
7houses  of disadvantaged elders repaired 
The Network of Love open house event in 2020 invited  charity partners to brainstorm ideas for innovative projects  implementation, creating more opportunities for collaboration. 
"We appreciate the TSMC Charity Foundation for  bringing and spreading love across Taiwan. Together  we can create more good and make love infinite!"  
"As a member of the Networking of Love, we will  narrow the social gap together with TSMC. With  technology, we can show that we care and help them  feel loved. OLD YES!" 
 Lihua Yang, Associate Director of China Medical University  
 Ms. You Lili, Chief Director of the Old Five Old Foundation  
TSMC Volunteers Serve Elders  to Enrich Their Lives  Celebrate the Chinese New Year  with Joy  
In 2020, volunteers from the Quality and Reliability  Organization, Fab 3, Fab 15B, Fab 12A, and Fab 12B  sent food and clothes to agencies that offer geriatric care  such as the Stella Matutina Social Welfare Foundation,  Huashan Foundation, Old Five Old Foundation, and  Hsinchu Catholic Social Service Center. The foods were  dishes that are commonly eaten during reunion dinners   through cooking activities, elders were able to get active,  socialize, and stay young.  
Accompany Elders on Dragon Boat  Festival and Moon Festival  
For the Dragon Boat Festival, volunteers from Fab 12B  visited 78 elders, giving them Zongzi and nutritional  
Fab 12A works with the Huashan Social Welfare Foundation to  purchase household appliances and take care of the elders who  live alone. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
 Handy Ko, Director of  Material Supply Chain Management "Simply being there is the best support that we can  provide. Through listening and caring, our society  could achieve the common good."  
 I feel different all day when I could really help. I find  myself capable and willing to give more!  
oats. Volunteers also prepared Wormwood soap,  which symbolizes good luck and dispels evil, as gifts to  
celebrate the festival. Before the Moon Festival, Fab 12A  
and Fab 15B raised 197 gift boxes and 40 boxes of moon  
cake for the elderly living alone served by the Huashan  
Foundation and the Old Five Old Foundation to warm  
their hearts.  
Quality and Reliability Organization celebrated Father's Day with  the elders living alone. 
- TSMC Employees' Children Who Participated in Quality    Reliability Org Volunteering Activities 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
 Frankie Tsai, Dep. Manager of Fab 12A 
Volunteers from the Material Supply Chain Management accompanied elders living alone to Taipei Zoo. 
embarking on an urban adventure through the Taipei MRT  
system. Volunteers from Fab 15B accompanied physically  
challenged elders to purchase daily necessities, helping  
them step out from their homes and connect with society  
again. Volunteers from Fab 12A made scallion pancakes  
Division took the elderly in Hualien to visit the Taipei Zoo,  
Go Shopping and Create Good  Memories Together  
Together with the Mennonite Social Welfare Foundation,  
volunteers from the Material Supply Chain Management  
"It is wonderful to have the opportunity to serve the  elders. During the process, we can learn to help others  and further realize the beauty of sharing."   
with the elders of the Hsinchu Veterans Home. Through  
social events like DIY cooking, they hoped that elders can  
go out more and stay physically and emotionally young.  
Promote Filial  Piety 
Our Actions 
   Online Teaching Materials to Promote  Filial Piety 
   Promote Filial Piety   Strengthen Civic  Morality 
   Filial Piety Story-reading to Raise  Awareness  
   Let the Seeds of Filial Piety Sprout  Awareness 
   Supporting the MOE Warmth Project 
What We Want to Solve  
According to statistics from the Ministry  of Health and Welfare, Taiwan's society is  now an aging society and the percentage  of elders living alone continues to rise.  Considering the limited social resources,  the TSMC Charity Foundation is hoping  to strengthen concepts of filial piety and  family communications to tackle the  challenge from the source.   
How We Respond 
The TSMC Charity Foundation believes  that, by cooperating with governments,  enterprises, and schools, we can cushion  the impact from an aging society through  diverse events raising awareness for  filial piety, promoting a parent-children  relationship filled with understanding and  care, increasing awareness on filial piety  among our youth, and ensuring that our  seniors are cared for.   Note1: In response to the filial piety concept advocated by Chairperson Sophie Chang of the TSMC Charity Foundation, the Ministry of Education provided filial piety courses, encouraging students to practice filial piety in their daily lives. The  project includes essay-writing events, micro-films, and flash mobs. The MOE also established the Filial Piety Resource Center to strengthen filial piety courses and teaching.  Note2: The "Warmth Project" is included in the series of MOE filial piety activities, encouraging students to express love to their families and pass on the taste of home through activities. Starting from the curriculum, the value of family can be  deepened and let children give back to their families.  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Actions to Promote Filial Piety 
Online Teaching Materials to  Promote Filial Piety  
The TSMC Charity Foundation cooperated with the  
Filial Piety Resource Center under the K-12 Education  
Administration in 2020 to hold 4 filial piety parent- 
child workshops to around 123 participants. In order  
to promote filial piety, the Foundation, based on their  
past experience, created online teaching materials,  
including workshop introductions, operating manuals,  
and teaching demonstration videos. These are  
available for free download on the Filial Piety Resource  
Center's website.  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
With  Governments TSMC 
   Work with the Filial Piety Resource Center of the  K-12 Education Administration 
    Support the "Warmth Project" promoted by the  K-12 Education Administration Note2 
    Cooperate with the Ministry of Education  for the "Filial Piety Heart Project"  Note1  
Promote Filial Piety    Strengthen Civic Morality 
In order to strengthen concepts of filial piety and good  
character among children in remote areas, volunteers  
from Fab 15A visited the BOYO Social Welfare Foundation  
in Changhua to help children make Mother's Day cakes  
participants  123 
of Filial Piety Workshops 
With  Schools    Communities  
   Hold filial piety parent-child workshops 
   Volunteers visit schools to promote filial piety  
while volunteers from Fab 15B read picture books about  
filial piety to children. 
2020 57 educational institutions filial piety education promotion 
   Hold filial piety parent-child  activities in fabs  
Filial Piety Story-reading to  Raise Awareness  
In 2020, TSMC's filial piety volunteers held story-readings  
on filial piety in school, organized activities revolving  
around filial piety, and prepared fun, interactive lessons  
to imbue teachings of filial piety into the curriculum so as  
to sow the seeds of filial piety. We are currently working  
with 15 schools through 122 filial piety volunteers.   
Fab 15B has been teaching filial piety at Taichung Beishi  
Elementary School through sharing filial piety stories and  
worksheets, encouraging students to think about their  
interactions with their elders and impressing in them the  
concept of filial piety  a total of 510 students participated  
in filial piety education at Taichung Beishi Elementary  
Let the Seeds of Filial Piety  Sprout  
Fab 12A invited colleagues to take photos of their family  
members and convey their love through post-it notes   
Fab 15A visited BOYO Social Welfare Foundation in  
Changhua to help children make Mother's Day cakes and  
read related books to encourage children to express  
gratitude to their mothers.   
"We appreciate the TSMC Charity Foundation for  promoting and practicing filial piety to make our  society better."  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
 Chongzhe Xu, Acting Principal of   Wagor International Senior High School  
The Quality and Reliability Organization showed support for the  project of MOE by teaching students how to prepare meals, so  that they can understand the hard work their parents do. 
Supporting the MOE Warmth  Project   
In 2020, the K-12 Education Administration under the  
MOE promoted a series of teaching plans to increase  
parent-child interactions by getting students to knit,  
cook lunch boxes, and write autobiographies of their  
elders. The Quality and Reliability Organization showed  
support for the project by visiting Baoshan Elementary  
School-Lake Branch in Hsinchu County to teach students  
how to make nutritious and delicious meals so that they  
can understand the hard work their parents do. Fab 14B  
taught Tainan Municipal Jingliao Junior High School's  
students to assist their elders in completing their  
autobiography through interviews, so as to promote  
mutual understanding among family members. 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
The Quality and Reliability Organization showed support for the project of MOE by teaching students how to prepare meals, so that they  can understand the hard work their parents do. 
"The Warmth Project is doing great, thanks to the  TSMC Charity Foundation's support. Thank you for  your dedication and effort to create a good society."  
 Li Jinyang, Principal of Filial Piety Resource Center of the K-12  Education Administration, Ministry of Education  
"Long-term collaboration with the TSMC Charity  Foundation gives me insight into their kind hearts. It  seems that they will never get tired of learning and  promoting filial piety." 
  Yuyun Liao, Curriculum Supervisor, Filial Piety Resource  Center of the K-12 Education Administration, MOE  
Environmental  Protection 
Our Actions 
   Cherish Food Program Continues to Grow  
   Volunteers Help Improve Energy Efficiency 
   Eco-volunteers Sending the Green Message 
   Tour Volunteers are the Bridge Connecting  the Public with Semiconductors  
   Assist in Setting Up Solar Panels  
   Promote Environmental Protection through  Playlets  
What We Want to Solve  
Climate change has brought on environmental  issues and food inequality. Corporations should  take action and help reduce the negative  impacts of climate change.  
How We Respond 
The TSMC Charity Foundation is assisting TSMC  fabs in recovering surrounding ecosystems  and advocating for sustainable actions,  environmental awareness, and renewable  energies in schools and communities.  The Foundation is also working with food  companies to reduce food waste.  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Distributing Goodwill Food to Locations Across Taiwan 
Cherish Food Program  Continues to Grow 
In 2020, the TSMC Charity Foundation worked with Chi  
Mei Food, Laurel Corporation, Hsin Tung Yang, Hunya  
Foods Co., Ltd., Lian Hwa Foods Corporation, and Shih  
Chen Foods Co., Ltd. to expand the scope of the Cherish  
Food Program by regularly sending goodwill foods to 92  
agencies that serve the disadvantaged in 13 cities and  
counties in Taiwan, benefitting 37,071 people. In addition,  
20 freezers were donated to charity agencies to ensure  
that foods remain fresh.  
Launch the Cherish  Food Program 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
TSMC Offers Freezers  and Subsidizes  Shipping Costs  
Six Companies Offer  
Fresh Goodwill  Products 
2020 37,071people benefitted from the Cherish Food Program 
37,071 2020 
2019 21,791 
37,071people 92 locations 
Has helped a total of   
TSMC Charity Foundation collaborated with Hsin Tung Yang to  organize a volunteer chef activity which supplied a delicious  feast to residents of Shuangxi District in the New Taipei City. 
Long-term Collaborations with  TSMC Volunteers (18) 6,715 Beneficiaries  
Education Institutions in  Remote Areas (58) 
21,577 Beneficiaries  
Network of Love (13) 
8,515 Beneficiaries  
Ten Thousand Dollars Per Household  Program and Emergency Aid for  Disadvantaged Program (3) 
264 Beneficiaries  
Volunteers Help Improve  Energy Efficiency 
TSMC's energy conservation volunteers are committed  to promoting water and energy conservation knowledge.  Fab 6 assisted two rural schools in Tainan to inspect the  status of water and electricity use and conduct safety  tests to ensure maximum energy efficiency. At the same  time, they also use interactive teaching and self-made  teaching aids to educate students on energy and water  conservation. In 2020, energy conservation volunteers  served a total of 52 times to provide over 520 hours in  energy-saving services. 
TSMC opened the green ecological parks at Fab 15 to student tours. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Eco-volunteers Sending the  Green Message  
TSMC is striving to recover ecosystems surrounding  
TSMC fabs and make sure that the ecosystem is  
conducive to biodiversity. It opened the green ecological  
parks at Fab 12B, Fab 15, and Fab 14 to student  
tours. Students are able to experience cleanroom  
suits, engage in DIY activities, and conduct scientific  
experiments to strengthen their understanding and  
participation in environmental protection. In addition,  
eco-volunteers from TSMC serve regularly at the Shuihu  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 
Semiconductors at the National Museum of Natural  
Tour Volunteers are the Bridge  Connecting the Public with  Semiconductors 
TSMC believes that sharing technological knowledge is  
one of the most important ways to give back to society.  
TSMC not only provides tour services to The World of  
has been updated to make it comprehensive and up- 
to-date. There have been 2,565 volunteers that served  
over 10,260 hours in guiding participants to learn  
about the chip production process and semiconductor  
development through interactive games.   
Assist in Setting Up Solar  Panels 
In 2020, the Facility Division donated over NT 1.2 million  
to the Taichung St. Coletta Catholic Training Center for  
Special Needs and the Maria Wufeng Caring Home for  
solar panels. The donation was to support renewable  
Science and TSMC's Museum of Innovation for the general  
public to better understand the semiconductor industry  
and its applications. In 2020, The World of Semiconductors  
Ecological Education Park to share the environment  
and the beauty of nature with the public. In 2020, eco- 
volunteers served a total of 992 times in providing over  
3,968 hours in tours.  
energy and helped the two organizations gain financial  
support by selling their green electricity.   
Promote Environmental  Protection through Playlets 
Volunteers from Fab 12A have been accompanying  students from the Baoshan Elementary School in  Hsinchu. They arranged playlets to teach students how  to cherish food and the environment. Environmental  protection books were also donated to schools to raise  environmental awareness among students.  
"Life is like an integrated circuit with different paths  and choices. We hope that children can learn in a fun  way. Their laughers prove that they are having fun  when learning and inspire us a lot."  
2020 1,044 services  from environment protection  related volunteers 
 Wenquan Liang, TSMC Tour Volunteer  
Operations and  Governance  
Corporate Governance  
Financial Performance  
Tax Policy  
Corporate Information Security  
Corporate Governance 
TSMC advocates and acts upon the principles of  
operational transparency and respect for shareholder  
rights. We believe that the basis for successful corporate  
governance is a sound and effective Board of Directors. In  
line with this principle, the TSMC Board delegates various  
Governance Structure 
Board of Directors and Committees 
Inheriting the spirit of TSMC's Founder, Dr. Morris  
Chang's philosophy on corporate governance,   
under the leadership of Chairman Dr. Mark Liu  
Four Boards Responsibilities 
   Supervise 
   Evaluate the management's performance  and appoint and dismiss officers 
   Resolve the important, concrete matters 
   Provide guidance to the management team 
and CEO   Vice Chairman Dr. C.C. Wei, TSMC's  
Board of Directors takes a serious and forthright  
approach to its duties and is a dedicated,  
competent and independent Board. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Compensation Committee 
Audit Committee 
responsibilities and authority to two Board Committees,  
the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee.  
Each Committee's chairperson regularly reports to  
the Board on the activities and actions of the relevant  
committee. The Board of Directors plays the role of  
Audit Committee 100% 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Independent  Directors 
Shareholders'Meeting 
Board of Directors 
Executive Officers Corporate Governance Officer Internal Aurit 
Great breadth of experience as  world-class business leaders or  professionals 10Members 
TSMC's Board  of Directors 
60% (6 Members) 
Independent  Directors 
overseeing and providing guidance to the Company's  
comprehensive sustainable management strategies.  
TSMC's Chairman chairs the ESG Steering Committee,  
and the Chairperson of the ESG Committee serves as its  
Executive Secretary and reports semi-annually to the  
Members 100% 
Compensation  Committee 6 
Independent  Directors 
Board of Directors on the implementation results and  
the future work plan. Starting from 2021, the reporting  
frequency to the Board of Directors has been increased  
to a quarterly basis. 
Diversity on Board 
TSMC's Board is comprised of a diverse group of  
professionals from different backgrounds in industries,  
academia, law, etc. These professionals include citizens  
from Taiwan, Europe and the U.S. with world-class  
business operating experience, one of whom is female. 
Nomination and Election of Directors 
The Board of Directors established the "Guidelines  
for Nomination of Directors", which describes the  
procedures and criteria for the nomination, qualification  
and evaluation of candidates for Directors. In addition,  
TSMC envisions its Board to be composed of a majority  
of independent directors, with the independence of  
each independent director candidate considered and  
assessed under relevant laws. 
Board and Audit Committee  Performance Evaluations 
TSMC implemented Board performance evaluations in  
2020. Through self-assessment surveys via questionnaire,  
performance evaluations are completed annually  by the Board as a whole, by individual directors and  by the Audit Committee. For the results of the 2020  performance evaluations, please refer to the 2020  Annual Report. 
1. Involvement in the Company's  operation  
2. Enhancement of the quality of  the board's  decision-making  
3. Makeup and structure of the  board 
4. Election of board members  and continuing knowledge  development 
5. Internal controls 
The Board of Directors is  assessed on the following 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
1. Understanding of the Company's  goals and mission  
2. Awareness of director's duties  
3. Involvement in the Company's  operations  
4. Internal relationship and  communication 
5. Director's professionalism  and continuing knowledge  development 
6. Internal controls 
The individual directors are  assessed on the following 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
1. Involvement in the Company's  operation 
2. Awareness of the audit  committe's duties 
3. Enhancement of the quality  of the audit committee's  decision-making 
4. Makeup of the audit committee  and election of its members  
5. Internal controls 
The Audit Committee is  assessed on the following 
Risk Management 
Based on both its corporate vision and its long-term,  
sustainable responsibility to both industry and society,  
TSMC operates an enterprise risk management (ERM)  
program to integrate and manage potential sustainability  
risks including strategic, operational, financial and  
hazardous risks (e.g. climate change, utility supply,  
earthquake, fire, chemical spill, etc.) that represent  
potential negative consequences to operations  
and financial results. The TSMC risk management  
organization is composed of the RM Steering Committee,  
RM Executive Council, RM Program and RM Task Force.    
Risk Management Organization Chart Enterprise Risk Management Framework 
RM Executive  Council 
RM Steering  Committee 
Board of  Directors   Audit  Committee 
RM Task  Force 
Materials  Management and  Risk Management 
RM Program 
The risk management framework (including risk  
identification and assessment, risk control and  
mitigation, risk response, risk monitoring and reporting)  
is applied to identify and prioritize risk controls, and to  
implement various controls and risk treatment. The risk  
management organization briefs the audit committee  
each year on the ever-changing risk environment  
facing TSMC, the focus of the Company's enterprise  
risk management, and risk assessment and mitigation  
efforts. The audit committee's chairperson also reports  
on the risk environment and risk mitigation actions to be  
taken. For more details of Risk Management, please refer  
to TSMC's 2020 Annual Report "6.3 Risk Management". 
Risk  Identification  and Assessment 
Risk Monitoring  and Reporting 
Risk Control  and Mitigation 
Risk Response 
Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 
Integrity is TSMC's most important core value. Based on  
this value, TSMC has established its ethics and regulatory  
compliance system, including a sequence of regulatory  
identification, compliance policy and procedure  
formulation, implementation and execution, self- 
assessment and examination, as well as open reporting  
channels and whistleblower protection. The Company's  
management team acts in accordance with our Ethics  
Code and fosters a robust ethics and regulatory  
compliance through its tone from the top. The ethical  
culture of TSMC is continuously strengthened through  
comprehensive education, training and promotion  
provided to its employees. At the same time, TSMC works  
hand in hand with its customers and supply chain to  
serve the mutual benefit of the industry, and serves as a  
Zero tolerance for corruption 
TSMC holds zero tolerance for corrupt practices  
and strictly prohibits any behavior of bribery, fraud,  
blackmail, misuse or misappropriation of the Company's  
assets, or impairment of the Company's interest for  
personal gain. TSMC Ethics and Business Conduct Policy  
(the Ethics Code) is the guideline for implementing the  
aforementioned core values. Every employee is required  
to exercise self-discipline by complying with the highest  
ethical standards and substantially implements integrity,  
equality, and transparency in daily operations. In view of  
trustworthy partner to its stakeholders. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
the importance of compliance with the Ethics Code, the  
Company's management team regularly reports to the  
Board and the Audit Committee on ethics and regulatory  
compliance. TSMC formed an Ethics Committee, which  
oversees implementation of the Ethics Code as well  
as investigation and disciplinary action for reported  
incidents. At the same time, suppliers are an important  
part of the implementation of the Ethics Code and  
regulatory compliance. TSMC established the "Supplier  
Regulatory Identification and Policy  Formulation 
TSMC identifies potential risks and impacts arising from  
regulatory changes by regularly tracking such changes.  
According to the results of regulatory identification,  
TSMC assesses whether internal regulations align  
with the changes to ensure that relevant policies and  
regulations are applicable and appropriate. In 2020,  
TSMC updated its export control policy to be in line with  
the latest export control regulatory changes. 
Implementation and Execution   Training  and Promotion 
Code of Conduct" bringing the core value of integrity  
into our supply chains and demonstrating it in business  
behavior  and published TSMC's Anti-Corruption  
Commitment on TSMC's webpage, enabling stakeholders  
to recognize TSMC's core value of integrity. 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
TSMC requires all of its organizations, subsidiaries and  
employees to ensure their business operations are  
compliant with laws, Company policies, and regulations  
when doing business. Through an annual Control Self- 
Assessment (CSA), employees examine their own  
compliance performance and are open for audit by the  
Internal Audit organization. This is an important part of  
TSMC's effort to implement regulatory compliance. 
To raise employee awareness of ethics and regulatory  
compliance, TSMC provides a variety of training courses  
for all employees based on relevant job responsibilities.  
The training courses include face-to-face courses and  
promotions as well as mandatory and elective online  
courses. Through posters around our facilities, guidelines  
and FAQs on regulatory compliance on the Company s  
intranet, internal email distributions, and promotional  
articles, TSMC ensures that all employees have timely  
access to new information on regulations and have a  
deeply-ingrained awareness of various issues. 
In 2020, TSMC provided an "Annual Ethics and  
Compliance Training Course", a mandatory online training  
course including topics such as ethics and anticorruption,  
avoiding and reporting conflict of interest, export control,  
privacy and personal data protection, and antitrust  
laws, to a total of 50,482 employees, reaching 99.7%  
completion rate. TSMC additionally offered more than  
20 face-to-face compliance training courses and online  
courses on subjects regarding export control and anti- 
trust laws to employees in relevant functions - a total of  
1,272 employees completed our online course on export  
control, and another 841 on anti-trust. In 2020, we held  
both a sustainable supply chain experience exchange  
and our annual Responsible Supply Chain Forum to share  
and exchange practical experience on topics such as  
the Ethics Code, labor rights, environmental protection,  
and occupational safety. In total, 518 attendees from 337  
suppliers participated in these activities. 
Assessment and Examination 
To implement the Ethics Code and to avoid potential  
conflicts, TSMC requires every newly-hired employee to  
complete a conflict of interest declaration upon arrival.  
Employees with specific job grades or positions need  
to complete the declarations annually. In 2020, 18,235  
TSMC employees completed the Annual Conflict of  
Interest Declaration to which all declarants agreed to  
comply with the Ethics Code. Internal Audit performs an  
audit according to the annual audit plan approved by the  
Board of Directors and reports the results and follow- 
up improvement plans to the Board and management.  
Internal Audit will also administer the CSA and assess its  
fulfillment by each fab division to ensure effectiveness  
and for internal self-assessment. 
In addition, every two years, TSMC performs anonymous  
surveys to suppliers and employees in turn to regularly  
evaluate the effectiveness of ethics and regulatory  
compliance promotion. To closely track employee  
feedback for ethics and regulatory compliance, in 2020,  
according to annual employee survey results, 88.7%  
of employees trust the confidentiality measures of the  
reporting channel, and 92.5% of employees are willing to  
use the reporting channel to report misconduct. 
Reporting and Protection 
TSMC has established and published its Complaint Policy  
and Procedure for Certain Accounting   Legal Matters  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
and pledges to comply with the relevant regulations in  
the policy. Open and multiple reporting channels are  
available for internal and external voices to protect the  
rights and interests of stakeholders and the company.  
All reported incidents collected from reporting channels  
inside or outside of TSMC are properly recorded and  
traced. TSMC also prohibits any form of retaliation by  
providing proper protection for any individual who in  
good faith reports a suspected violation or participates  
in an investigation. In 2020, the Ethics Committee held a  
total six meetings to examine major reported incidents  
under investigation. 
TSMC investigates each individual case according  
to its characteristics through specific divisions, and  
treats every received case seriously, carefully, and  
effectively to ensure the accuracy of the investigation.  
Each investigated case confirmed to be true will receive  
discipline, up to and including dismissal, termination  
of the business relationship, and legal prosecution as  
appropriate. The TSMC Ethics Committee will evaluate  
each case to determine whether it is an exceptional case  
or whether it results from systemic issues of insufficient  
awareness in ethics. This will allow TSMC to continue  
evaluating whether it is necessary to improve its  
management and internal control procedures. Activities  
such as emails to employees that disclose the violations  
and disciplinary actions in each quarter are conducted to  
promote employees' awareness and avoid recurrence of  
similar incidents. 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Note: For reported cases related to sexual harassment, please refer to An Admired Employer in this Report 
In 2020, we did not receive any reports related to finance,  
accounting or antitrust matters, nor did we receive any  
complaints concerning breach of customer privacy  
and loss of customer data, or any material regulatory  
violations (where a fine exceeds NT 1 million). 
In 2020, the incidents reported through the Audit  
Committee Whistleblower System, Ombudsman System,  
Historical Incidents  
Total incidents reported to ethics-related channels Incidents related to ethics Verified incidents upon investigation 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
and Irregular Business Conduct Reporting System totaled  
246. Among them, 155 cases were related to employee  
relations, 69 cases were categorized as others (e.g. asking  
personal questions or private matters), and 22 cases  
were related to ethics. Six  incidents were verified upon  
investigation and determined for disciplinary action  
by the Ethics Committee. In 2020, TSMC leveraged the  
six violations to strengthen ethics promotion for all  
employees in supplier-related activities. 
Unit: Cases 
with investors, in 2015 TSMC set clear strategic financial  
objectives: (1) average return on equity (ROE) to be at  
least 20% across cycles  (2) compound annual growth  
rate (CAGR) of net income to be between 5% and 10%  
for the years 2015 through 2020. Concluding 2020, TSMC  
delivered (1) average ROE of 24.4% and (2) net income  
Financial Performance 
A solid financial foundation is the key to corporate  
sustainability. With good financial performance, prudent  
business plans, and disciplined capital management,  
TSMC is able to maintain a solid financial foundation  
to weather industry cyclicality. TSMC pursues good  
financial performance mainly through revenue growth  
and consistent improvement in profitability to create  
greater economic value for its stakeholders, including  
shareholders investors, employees, customers, suppliers,  
government, society, and others.  
To communicate TSMC's long-term investment value  
Four Strategies to Increase Long-term Investment Value 
Continue to invest in  process technologies  and capacity 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Maintain or improve  profitability and  investment returns 
CAGR of 11.1% for the years 2015 through 2020, both  
exceeding the prior targets. 
As the multi-year megatrends of 5G and HPC-related  
applications are expected to fuel strong demand for TSMC's  
advanced technologies in the next several years, the  
Company is entering a period of higher growth from 2020.  
Therefore, TSMC further expects (1) its long-term revenue  
growth, in US dollar terms, to be 10% to 15% CAGR from  
2020 to 2025, with (2) minimum ROE of 20% across cycles. 
Given the funding requirement of the growth opportunities,  
macroeconomic uncertainties, the current low interest rate  
environment, and ability to diversify funding sources, TSMC  
issued a total of NT 120 billion in NT dollar denominated  
and US 4 billion in US dollar denominated corporate  
bonds with favorable pricing terms. After the bond  
issuances, TSMC continues to maintain the semiconductor  
industry's highest credit ratings. 
Maintain trusting  relationships  with customers 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Pursue revenue  and market  share growth 
Financial Performance 
ROE Revenue NT  Billion  Net Income NT  Billion  
Standard   Poor's (S P) Ratings Aa3 
427 506 597 763 843 948 977 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
134 166 188 264 307 334 343 351 345 518 
10-Year Averaged ROE (2011-2020) 12.4% 
28% 27% 26% 24% 
Moody's Ratings twAAA 
1,031 1,070 
10-Year Net Income CAGR (2011-2020) 
Taiwan Ratings 
Supported by the Company's strengthening industry  
position, growth potential, and solid operating  
performance, TSMC's share price, adjusted for cash  
dividends, increased 64.7% in 2020, marking 12  
consecutive years of annual growth. Since the Company  
went public in 1994, TSMC has been profitable every  
year and TSMC's market capitalization has been growing  
steadily. As of December 31, 2020, TSMC's market  
capitalization reached NT 14.2 trillion, or US 498.5 billion. 
TSMC's solid financial performance enables the  
Company to distribute profits to shareholders in the  
form of cash dividends.  
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 
Cash Dividend Market Capitalization 
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 2020 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
TSMC's Board of Directors approved quarterly cash  
dividends of NT 2.5 per share per quarter in 2020.  
TSMC's shareholders received a total of NT 10 per share  
in cash dividends in 2020. From 2004 to 2020, TSMC has  
paid out a total of NT 1.9 trillion, or US 62.4 billion, in  
cash dividends. 
In the future, TSMC intends to maintain a sustainable  
quarterly cash dividend, and to distribute the cash  
dividend each year at a level not lower than the year before.  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Unit: NT  trillion 
Cash Dividend per Share (NT ) Total Dividend Paid (NT  billiion) 
Cumulative Cash Dividends from 2004 to 2020 
14.2Trillion (NT ) 
Total Cash Dividend Paid in 2020 1.9Trillion (NT ) 
Market Capitalization at the End of 2020  64.7% 
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
2.5 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 
 77B  77B  77B  78B  78B  78B  78B  78B 
A complete dividend history can be found on TSMC's website  
Total Shareholder Return in 2020 
10Per Share (NT ) 
 259B  259B 
Tax Policy 
TSMC supports tax policies and incentives that encourage  
enterprise innovation and foster economic growth. The  
Company aims for its tax approach and disclosure to be  
transparent and sustainable in the long term. 
Eight Commitments 
Act at all times in compliance with all  applicable laws and regulations 
Inter-company transactions are based on  the arm's length principle, in compliance  with internationally accepted transfer pricing  guidance published by the OECD 
Be transparent in financial reporting.  Disclosures are made in accordance with  applicable regulations and reporting  requirements 
Do not use tax havens or tax structures  whose sole purpose is for tax avoidance 
Do not transfer value created to low-tax  jurisdictions 
Develop strong, mutually respectful  relationships with tax authorities based on  transparency and trust 
Always consider tax as part of major  business decisions TSMC's 2020 income  tax payment in Taiwan  represented 10.1% of  total corporate income  taxes collected by the  R.O.C. government 
Analyze the operating environment  and assess tax risk through a corporate  management mechanism 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Tax Risk Management 
TSMC is subject to tax laws and regulations in various  
jurisdictions in which it operates or conducts business.  
Any unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations in  
these jurisdictions could increase the Company's effective  
tax rate and have an adverse effect on its operating  
results. In order to effectively manage tax risks, TSMC  
follows internal control processes, identifies, assesses,  
and manages tax risks from regulatory changes and its  
business transactions, accounts for them appropriately,  
and implements and monitors controls over them. 
Tax risk management is incorporated in TSMC's enterprise  
risk management (ERM) program. The risk management  
organization regularly briefs TSMC's Audit Committee  
on the ever-changing risk environment facing TSMC, the  
focus of the Company's enterprise risk management, and  
risk assessment and mitigation efforts. For more details  
on risk management, please refer to "Risk Management"  
section in TSMC's 2020 Annual Report. 
Tax Governance 
The ultimate responsibility for taxation management for  
TSMC and its subsidiaries rests with the Chief Financial  
10.1% 1   90% 58.9Billion(NT ) 
In 2020, TSMC's total  tax payments on a cash  basis worldwide were  NT 58.9 billion 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
In 2020, over 90% of TSMC's  revenue and profit before  tax were generated from its  business operations in Taiwan.  Meanwhile, over 90% of its tax  payments were also made to  the Taiwan R.O.C. government 
Based on data provided by  "Bloomberg Professional",  TSMC was the largest  corporate income tax payer  among all public listed  companies in Taiwan in 2020 
Effective Tax Rate 
TSMC's effective tax rate in 2020 was 11.5%, unchanged  
from 2019. The effective tax rate in 2020 was lower than  
the R.O.C. statutory corporate income tax rate of 20%,  
primarily due to a five-year tax exemption for capital  
investments made in previous years, and tax credit for  
research and development expenditures according  
to regulations under the R.O.C. Statute for Upgrading  
Industries and the Statute for Industrial Innovation.  
Officer, who delegates day-to-day responsibility to the  
Controller. A team of qualified and experienced tax  
professionals supports the Controller to meet TSMC's tax  
obligations. In addition, TSMC also leverages external tax  
service providers for complementary expertise. 
TSMC's Audit Committee is delegated by the Board to  
oversee the quality and integrity of the accounting,  
auditing, reporting, and financial control practices of  
the Company through periodic review of certain major  
matters, including accounting policies and procedures,  
internal control systems, legal compliance, and corporate  
risk management, etc.  Among these, tax compliance is  
included as part of the Company's legal compliance. 
2020 Tax Breakdown 
Note: TSMC categorizes its profit before tax and taxes paid  geographically based on the country in which TSMC and  subsidaries are located. 
Income Tax Paid   51.4 Billion (NT ) 
North America 1.2% 
Profit Before Tax   584.8 Billion (NT ) 
Taiwan R.O.C 97.0% Asia (excluding R.O.C) 1.8% 
Asia (excluding R.O.C) 3.4% Taiwan R.O.C 94.7% 
North America 0.5% Others 1.4% 
58.9  Billion (NT ) 
58.9  Billion (NT ) 
Corporate Income Tax 
Labor and Health   Insurance, Social Security 
Taiwan R.O.C 
Asia (excluding R.O.C) 
North America 
Corporate Information Security 
Information security and Proprietary Information  
Protection are commitments from TSMC to customers,  
shareholders, and employees. We are proactive in carrying  
out our information security management system and  
in setting related policies, management procedures  
and regulations. In 2020, the TSMC Information Security  
Declaration was published to declare our resolution and  
objectives in information security protection  to maintain  
TSMC's competitive advantage and safeguard customers  
and business partners' interests.  
Corporate Information Security 
The Corporate Information Security (CIS) organization,  
established in 2019, is in charge of information security  
Structure of TSMC Corporate Information Security TSMC Information Security Declaration 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
policy formulation, implementation, risk management,  
and compliance audits, with the Proprietary Information  
Protection Division and the Information Technology  
Security Division under its supervision. Reports on  
information security management performance, related  
issues and directions are delivered every six months by  
CIS's highest-level supervisor to the Board of Directors and  
Audit Committee. As the Audit Committee is responsible  
for monitoring corporate information security, TSMC's  
information and cybersecurity management mechanisms  
are evaluated by Sir Peter L. Bonfield, chairman of the  
Audit Committee, who possesses a strong information  
security background.  
TSMC has taken on an important role in the global  
semiconductor supply chain to offer outstanding  
semiconductor manufacturing services and long- 
term partnerships to customers. TSMC makes great  
effort to enhance its Information Security and  
Proprietary Information Protection mechanisms to  
maintain TSMC's competitiveness and protect the  
interests of its customers and partners. 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
The Proprietary Information Protection Committee  
was established to implement information security  
strategies formulated by CIS and ensure related  
guidelines, procedures, and regulatory compliance  
are carried out internally. The Committee is chaired by  
the senior vice president of Information Technology  
and Materials Management and Risk Management, and  
vice presidents of Legal, Human Resources, Research  
and Development, and Operations serve as committee  
members. In addition, the highest-level supervisor from  
CIS acts as the executive secretary, and the highest- 
level supervisor from Internal Audit as an observer. The  
committee meets each quarter to review and resolve  
on guidelines and policies, and carry out formulated  
information security measures.  
Audit  Committee 
Board of  Directors 
Proprietary Information  Protection Division Information Technology  Security Division 
Corporate Information Security 
Information Technology and  Materials Management    Risk Management 
Strategies and Framework of  Corporate Information Security 
The Corporate Information Security let the concept of  
information security take root in the Company through  
TSMC Proprietary Information Protection (PIP)  Working  
Committee. The PIP Working Committee, which covers  
all organizations by all functions, convenes monthly  
meetings to keep track of situations on the ground and  
discuss PIP measures such as information protection,  
compliance, and policy applicability utilizing the Plan-Do- 
Check-Act (PDCA) cycle to ensure thorough management  
of information security. Reports on implementation  
results are delivered to the Proprietary Information  
Protection Committee regularly.  
Structure of TSMC Proprietary Information Protection Committee Structure of Corporate Information Security Risk Management and Improvement  
The  "planning" stage of the PDCA cycle focuses on  
information security risk management to minimize  
systemic, technological, and procedural corporate  
information security threats by establishing a  
comprehensive Information Security Management  
System (ISMS), and ISO certification (ISO IEC 27001 and  
ISO IEC 15408) across fabs. Enable the best proprietary  
information protection to fulfill customers' needs. The  
doing stage focuses on implementation of multilayered  
Vice President, Operations 
Observer:  Highest-level Supervisor,  Internal Audit 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Propriety Information Protection Committee  
Chairman: Senior Vice President, Information Technology and Materials  Management   Risk Management 
Vice President, Technology  Development  
Vice President,  Human  Resources 
Executive Secretary:  Highest-level Supervisor,  Corporate Information Security 
information security defense. TSMC continuously  
adopts innovative information protection technology  
and integrates the security control solution with daily  
operations including maintenance of software and  
hardware facilities, and supplier information security  
management. Systematically monitoring information  
security measures to protect the confidentiality, integrity,  
and availability of TSMC assets. Proactive monitoring on  
security management performance is carried out in the  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Vice President  and General  Counsel,Legal 
   Information security monitoring  
   Quantitative assessment on information security  indicators  
   Drills for simulated information security attacks  
   PIP compliance audit  
   Evaluation of Information security maturity   
   Obtaining certification from  international  information security authorities  
   Understanding of information security attacks and  techniques  
   Review and improvement on information security measures  
   Training programs and promotion campaigns on  information security  
   Handling of information security violations  
   Information protection surveys  
Information Security Management  Performance Monitoring 
Review and Improvement Activities 
"checking" stage, where related indicators and quantitative  
analyses are used to evaluate effectiveness of security  
defense, and information security maturity is assessed  
through regular drills on information security attacks. In the  
"action stage", security measures are regularly reviewed  
and activities are planned for continuous improvement.  
Continue to monitor and audit to ensure security control  
effectiveness and sustainability. When employees are  
found violating information security protection and PIP  
   Personnel and physical  security  
   Cloud security  
   Network security  
   Device security  
   Application security  
   Account and access  management  
   Enterprise Information Security Risk Assessment  
   Information Security Risk Management and Measure  Formulation  
   Compliance with international standards (ISO27001,  ISO15408, SCF, NIST, SAFE)  
   Customer Information Security Mechanism  
Information Security Risk Management 
procedures, penalties consistent to the severity of damage  
caused by their violations are given (including annual  
employee assessment and legal actions when necessary).  
In addition, based on security KPI and maturity assessment  
report, improvement activities for training programs,  
promotion campaigns and security control mechanism are  
constantly reviewed and planned to prevent breaching of  
TSMC proprietary information.  
Multilayered Information  Security Protection 
   Data security  
   Supply chain information  security  
   Information security  maintenance and  operation  
   Information security  protection technology  reinforcement  
2020 Corporate Information Security New Measures  
Training  Programs and  Promotion  Campaigns 
Reviews and Improvement Activities 
Strengthening  of Data Security  Protection  Technology  
Supply Chain  Information  Security  
Application  Security  
Multilayered Information Security Protection  
Device  Security  
Network  Security  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
   Adopted new technology for vulnerability scan and fulfill system and software  continuously updates 
   Strengthened firewall and network access control to prevent the spreading of computer  viruses across devices and TSMC facilities 
   Designed advanced virus scanning tools to prevent fabs from installing virus-infected tools 
   Installation of anti-virus and advanced malware detection solutions across our computer  devices 
   Defined security self-check forms, assessment standards and improvement goals 
   Enhanced application security controls and integrated the security controls in  development process and platform  
   Supplier security defense self-examination mechanism established 
   Latest regulations and announcements on information security delivered regularly  to TSMC suppliers 
   Advanced information protection tools developed  document classification and  information protection are strengthened through labeling 
   Control and tracking of documents and encrypted data 
   Control of out-going emails 
   Enhancement of employees' awareness of email phishing and social engineering, and  drills on phishing emails carried out 
   Regular drills on threat identification organized to raise employee' information security  awareness 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Information Security Performance Monitoring 
Information  Security  Maturity  Assessment  
Third-party Evaluation Results on TSMC's Information  Security in 2020 
In 2020, TSMC's external audits concluded that no major information security  flaws, major violations, incidents of customer data breach and regulatory  fines occurred. Moreover, there has been zero complaints concerning breach  of customer privacy and loss of customer data from either third parties or  regulatory bodies resulting in judicial action. 
   Regular network and information security assessments carried out by external experts  (from information security audit organizations, and cybersecurity and information security  risk assessment institutes) 
   Third-party verified results and threat profiles integrated for risk analysis to strengthen  information security management  
TSMC average score  99 Industry average score   90 
Overall Grade Industry Average 
Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. 
2020 Corporate Information Security Measures Enforcement Report 
10 Regulations 
Newly created or revised 10 information  security regulations 
All new employees, a total of over 5,000  individuals, completed information security  and protection training courses 100% 
All new vendors, a total of over 23,000  individuals, completed PIP training courses 100% 
Note: 2020 PIP performance indicators cover TSMC's Taiwan facilities and overseas subsidiaries. 
Policies Certifications 
Training programs Promotion campaigns 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Fabs Achieved 300 mm Fab 
Achieved ISO IEC 27001:2013 Information Security Certification 
Areas include: Client Silicon IP merge,  mask manufacturing and production,  inventory management and related IT  management applied to support 12-inch  wafer manufacturing (Tainan) 
32 Posters 
A total of 32 posters were created to  promote important regulations and  announcements regarding information  protection and information security 
10 Micro Movies 
A total of 10 micro movies were created  to promote important regulations and  announcements regarding information  protection and information security 
10 films 2020 
32 posters 2020 
30 posters 2018 
14 films 2019 
7 films 2018 
24 posters 2019 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
   Case studies on information security regulatory violations 
   Ways to check information security or escalate issues  concerning security regulations and seeking consultancy  if needed 
   Major events and new regulations in 2020 
3 ISO IEC 15408 Certification 
Fabs 14A, 15B, and 12B were successfully  certified by the German Federal Office  for Information Security (BSI) for ISO IEC  15408- EAL6 under Common Criteria (Site  Certification) 
52,818 Employees 
52,818 employees completed the annual  information security online refresher  e-learning course 
Over 150,000 subscribers received  Supplier Information Security  Newsletter 3 Issues of Supplier Information  Security Newsletter 
47,397 employees 2019 
45,989 employees 2018 
52,818 employees 2020  
2 Customer Security Audits 
Cooperated with 2 customers in  obtaining ISO15408 certification for  their products, and ensured their  product information protection during  manufacturing 
6 Email Phishing and Social  Engineering Drills 
Conducted 6 email phishing and social  engineering drills, involving more than  40,000 participants 
   Average score of 95 for employee approval of  information protection-related policies 
   Conducted an information protection  engagement survey in 2020, collected over 43,000  surveys with over 82% response rate 
of employees were found violating information  security protection and PIP procedures and  penalized consistent to the severity of damage  caused by their violations 
Corrective measures: 
   Strengthened employee training programs and  promotion campaigns  
   Set improvement measures and implemented  monitoring on employees 
95 points 2018 
95 points 2020 
95 points 2019 
Events Violations 
Participation in Industry Associations and Non-profit Organizations  
ESG Performance Summary  
GRI Standards Comparison Table  
Climate Change Management Framework 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  
Independent Third Party Assurance Statement  
Contact Information 
About this Report  
About this Report 
Working towards sustainability, TSMC strives for a better  
future along with its employees, shareholders and  
investors, customers, suppliers and contractors, the  
government, society, and all other stakeholders. TSMC  
has issued non-financial reports for 22 consecutive  
years. In accordance with the standards set by the  
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Task Force on Climate- 
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and Sustainability  
Accounting Standards Board (SASB), the reports  
present the expectations and feedback given by various  
stakeholders regarding the Company's daily operations.  
The reports have become an important tool for  
managing sustainability efforts, disclosing sustainability  
strategies and measures, and sharing achievements.  
TSMC is committed to making positive changes for a  
better future. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Reporting Scope 
This report includes TSMC Taiwan Facilities (corporate  
headquarters, wafer fabs in Taiwan, advanced backend  
fabs) TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), WaferTech, VisEra, and  
other subsidiaries. Compared to 2019, Fab18 P3 expanded  
its facilities in Taiwan and started operation. If the scope  
of reporting is different from the above statements, a note  
will be added to explain any difference in that paragraph. 
Reporting Period  
The reporting period is between January 1, 2020 and  
December 31, 2020. The report is published in June  
2021 in both English and Chinese, and is available on  
TSMC's ESG website. It mainly covers the major topics of  
interest to stakeholders as well as TSMC s practices in the  
economic, environmental, and social dimensions. Visit  
the following links for more data and information. 
ESG Performance  Summary Video 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
TSMC LinkedIn ESG Newsletter 
ESG Website 
Primary Changes in the 2020 ESG Disclosures 
Effective  Communication 
Units of  Measurements 
ESG Spotlight 
TSMC publishes new case studies on corporate sustainability every  week to provide real-time updates on the Company's progress  towards sustainability 
Developed TCFD and SASB disclosure principles on the GRI  foundation to ensure full disclosure of ESG performances 
New Case Studies from 2020 in accordance to the Five Major ESG Trends 
Units for unit product indicators in Green Manufacturing have been  updated from 8-inch wafer equivalent to 12-inch wafer equivalent  the  energy consumption of gas plant suppliers neighboring TSMC fabs are  deducted from the unit product energy consumption and total energy  consumption  figures for disabling injury frequency rate disabling  severity rate are from work-related injuries and excludes non-work- related injuries in compliance with the law 
Disclosure  Boundaries Disclosure boundaries for sustainability topics have now  expanded to include new fabs and subsidiaries 
Issue 2020 CSR Report Highlights and Video 
Disclosure  Principles 
The issue lacks materiality to the institution and  is not included in the boundary of data collection Collect complete data Collect partial data Data Collection Boundaries for Sustainable Development Issues 
Note 1: TSMC's facilities in Taiwan include corporate headquarters, wafer fabs, testing and assembly facilities. Note 2: TSMC subsidiaries or offices in North America, Europe, Japan, South Korea, and other countries. 
Innovation Management  
Product Quality  
Customer Service 
Supplier Sustainability Management  
Climate Change and Energy Management  
Water Management  
Waste Management  
Air Pollution Control  
Talent Attraction and Retention 
Talent Development 
Human Rights 
Occupational Safety and Health 
Social Participation 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Issue Other Subsidiaries Note 2 Taiwan Facilities Note 1 WaferTech TSMC (China) 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
TSMC (Nanjing) VisEra 
Note 1: DNV GL VeriSustain TM Protocol is consistent with AA 1000 Accountability Principles (AA1000AP) and ISAE 3000. Note 2: For the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Comparison Table and other related certification and verification documents,                  please visit TSMC's ESG website. 
Report Writing and Quality Management Process Report Writing Guidelines and Principles 
Compilation  
Finalization 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
ESG Committee Team  Assigned Writer 
Internal: VPs and  Above Executives of  TSMC Organizations 
Chairperson of the  ESG Committee 
External: Third- party Certification  Organizations 
ESG Editing Team 
Division-level  Managers  
   Identify annual practices and review performance of each  division's sustainable operations    Review completion and accuracy of all the data and materials 
   Provide the key sustainability factors and issues of 2020 -Objectives  -Performance Indicators  -Achievements  -Future Plans 
   Overall planning 
   Define the main theme and content of the report 
   Edit and revise 
   Verify Report 
   Review  approval data and information 
   DNV GL Business Assurance Company Limited reviews and  verifies this report based on DNV GL VeriSustain TM Protocol  and GRI Standards     GRI Standards Comparison Table, TCFD Framework, SASB  Standards and Independent Third Party Assurance Statement  can be found in the appendix of this report 
   Approve the report 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Certification Organization 
Certification Organization 
    GRI Standards: Comprehensive Option 
    TCFD Framework 
    SASB Standards 
    AA 1000 Accountability Principle 
    DNV GL Business Assurance Co. Ltd. 
    IFRSs approved and issued by the Financial  Supervisory Commission (FSC)     Regulations Governing the Preparation of  Financial Reports by Securities Issuers 
    Deloitte   Touche 
If you have any feedback, advice, or suggestion on this  report or TSMC's sustainable development, please feel free  to contact us. For more information about TSMC's latest  sustainability practices, please subscribe to TSMC's ESG  Newsletter. 
    Responsible Unit: ESG Committee 
    ESG Website: http:  www.tsmc.com.tw csr en index.html 
    Email: CSRSURVEY TSMC.COM 
    Phone:  886-3-5636688 
    Address: 8, Li-Hsin Rd. 6, Hsinchu Science Park, Hsinchu  
300-78, Taiwan, R.O.C 
Participation in Industry Associations and Non-profit Organizations Note1 
TSMC's Corporate Social Responsibility vision is to uplift  
society, and our mission is integrity, strengthening  
environmental protection, and caring for the  
disadvantaged. Under this vision and mission, TSMC  
participates in a variety of industry associations and  
non-profit organizations to promote industry dialogue  
and development, as well as track key issues such  
as technology innovation, corporate governance,  
Note 1: Non-profit organizations in the areas of charity and education are not included here. For details of TSMC's participation in the TSMC Charity  Foundation and TSMC Education and Culture Foundation, please see pages 166 to 188 of this report. Note 2: By law, TSMC is not permitted to make political donations as the Company is majority-owned by foreign shareholders. TSMC has always followed this  legal requirement and maintained political neutrality, but encourages employees to fulfill their civic duty. Note 3: The three largest membership fees paid or donations made by TSMC in 2020, in descending order, are:  1) Information Technology Industry Council (ITIC)  NT 11,772,400      The United States is one of TSMC s primary markets. TSMC participates in the ITIC in the United States to join other global technology companies to          discuss policy trends and industry standards related to technology industry development, and to communicate with the U.S. and global government       on the importance of technology to global economy. 
Industry Dialogue and Development 
TSMC strives for the development of the global and domestic semiconductor industry. In addition  to participating in the main industry associations in the field of semiconductors, the Company  also makes policy suggestions to the government in areas including land, water, electricity, talent,  intellectual property protection and other areas related to the competitiveness of the industry.  Industry associations that TSMC participates to steer industry development include: 
   Taiwan Semiconductor Industry Association (TSIA)  
   Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) 
   Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI) 
   Global Semiconductor Alliance (GSA) 
   Taiwan IC Industry   Academia Research Alliance 
   Information Technology Industry Council (ITIC) 
   Information Technology and Innovation Foundation (ITIF) 
   The Allied Association for Science Park Industries 
   Chinese National Association of Industry and Commerce, Taiwan 
   Taiwan Electrical and Electronics Manufacturers' Association 
   Monte Jade Science   Technology Association of Taiwan TSMC Chairman Mark Liu has served as Chairman of the TSIA since 2019, Senior Vice President Y.P. Chin  currently serves as chairperson of TSIA s Energy Committee, and Director Fung Han-Wen currently  serves as chairperson of TSIA s Environment, Safety and Health Committee. Senior Director Tuan  Hsiao-Chin currently serves as chairperson of SEMI's MEMS   Sensors Committee, Senior Director  Arthur Chuang currently serves as chairperson of SEMI s High-Tech Facility Committee, Director John  Lin currently serves as chairperson of SEMI s IC Committee, and Director M.D. Chen currently serves  as chairperson of SEMI s Materials Committee. Senior Vice President Rick Cassidy currently serves as  a member of the Board of Directors at GSA. Senior Vice President Y.P. Chin currently serves as standing  director of The Allied Association for Science Park Industries, and Vice President Connie Ma currently  serves as a standing controller of The Allied Association for Science Park Industries. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
environmental sustainability, human rights, and supply  
chain management Note2. With the threat and challenges  
brought by the COVID-19 pandemic around the world, TSMC  
applied our unique knowledge and resources to provide  
aid and relief. TSMC provided aid to areas most in need of  
resources, including Taiwan, Europe, the United States,  
and Mainland China to fight against pandemic and save  
lives. Following the announcement to build and operate  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Technology Innovation 
Technology innovation is the key driving force moving  the technology industry forward. TSMC not only  cares for and invests in technology innovation and  participates in the definition of technical standards,  it also calls on the government and private sector to  protect the results of innovation together so that it  can gain appropriate economic value and encourage  further innovation, creating a fair competitive  environment. TSMC participates in industry  associations in the area of technology innovation  including: 
   Epoch Foundation 
   Taiwan Association for Trade Secrets Protection  (TTSP)    Peripheral Component Interconnect Special  Interest Group (PCI SIG)    JEDEC 
TSMC Vice President and General Counsel Sylvia Fang  jointly founded the Taiwan Association for Trade Secrets  Protection (TTSP) in 2015, and served as its Chairman  for the first two terms to help promote legal reform of  Taiwan's trade secret laws and regulations. Currently she  is a standing executive director of the TTSP. 
Corporate Governance 
The robustness of a company's corporate governance  not only affects that company's development, it can  also affect the economic stability of a region. TSMC  places great importance on corporate governance  and has received invitations to speak on our princi- pals and methods for corporate governance, as well  as discuss the results of TSMC's 33 years of corporate  governance. TSMC participates in industry associa- tions in the area of corporate governance including: 
   Asian Corporate Governance Association (ACGA) 
   Asia Business Council 
   Taiwan Corporate Governance Association (TSGA) 
               the  semiconductor industry to U.S. economic development, national security, and global competitiveness. Note 4: TSMC s expenditures of membership and donation for industry associations and non-profit organizations between 2016 and 2020 were NT 36,296,334,  NT 21,176,571, NT 21,735,668, NT 20,338,992, and NT 40,197,059 respectively. Note 5: In addition to the expenditures disclosed in Note 4 above, TSMC's government relations expenses in 2020 was NT 40,857,291, with the primary  expense being employee payroll. TSMC did not make any political donations in reporting period. 
an advanced semiconductor fab in the United States,  
TSMC expanded participation in industry associations  
and chambers of commerce in the United States. In 2020,  
TSMC participated in more than 100 industry associations  
and non-profit organizations at home and abroad,  
with expenditures of over NT 40.19 million Note3. Total  
expenditures in the past five years (2016 2020) were about  
NT 139.74 million Note4. 
          2) Taiwan Semiconductor Industry Association (TSIA) NT 5,010,984              
               TSMC participates in the TSIA to support Taiwan s semiconductor industry and develop consensus on the development of the industry through the                   association s activities and promote healthy growth for the sector through cooperation amid competition.           3) Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) NT 4,797,440                 TSMC participates in the SIA to join other industry members to collectively communicate with the U.S. government and highlight the importance of   
Environmental Sustainability 
As TSMC's business continues to grow, its requirements for  sustainable measures such as energy conservation, carbon  reduction, water saving, and waste reduction all continue to  increase as well, and the Company devotes much attention  to its participation in the associations and organizations  related to the issue of environmental sustainability. In  addition to sharing our experiences with the organizations  below, TSMC has appointed more than 10 internal  experts to serve as committee members and committee  chairpersons in the TSIA and the Allied Association for  Science Park Industries to set standards in energy, water,  environmental protection, and occupational health, and  meet these standards together. TSMC participates in  industry associations and non-profit organizations in the  area of environmental sustainability including: 
   Taiwan Institute for Sustainable Energy  Taiwan Center  for Corporate Sustainability    Business Council for Sustainable Development of  Taiwan    RE100 
   Science and Technology in Society forum 
TSMC Senior Vice President Lora Ho currently serves as  member of the Taiwan Center for Corporate Sustainability  board of directors. 
As a leading semiconductor company, TSMC aims to  
use its influence in the industry to join hands with other  
enterprises to work for our mutual benefit in order to  
adapt to changes in the industry and the international  
environment, as well as improve the Company's quality  
and competitiveness. The issues covered by the industry  
associations and non-profit organizations which TSMC  
participates in are categorized as follows: 
Human Rights and Supply  Chain Management 
TSMC is an official member of the Responsible  Business Alliance, and in addition to meeting  the alliance's requirements in auditing suppliers  regarding labor, safety and health, environment,  ethics, and management systems, we have also  led our suppliers to join this alliance to expand its  effectiveness. TSMC also requires all suppliers to  commit to the Assurance to Comply with TSMC s  Code of Ethics and Business Conduct ensuring  that TSMC employees and suppliers follow high  ethical standards. TSMC participates in industry  associations in the area of human rights and  supply chain management including: 
   Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) 
   Responsible Minerals Initiative 
ESG Performance Summary  Note1 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Environmental 
Key Indicators 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
Fluorinated Greenhouse Gas Emission (Metric Ton CO2 equivalent) 
VOC Emissions (Metric Tons) 
Energy Consumption (GWh) (Including electricity, nature gas and diesel) 
Water Consumption (Million Metric Tons)  
Revenue (NT  billion) 948 977 1,031 1,070 
Income Tax Expense (NT  billion) 52 53 46 45 
R D Expenditures (NT  billion) 71 81 86 91 
Greenhouse Gas Emission (Metric Ton CO2  equivalent) (Scope 1 and Scope 2 Market-based) 
Net Income (NT  billion) 334 343 351 345 
Capital Expenditures (NT  billion) 328 331 316 460 
Process Water Recycling Rate (%) Note3 
Total Water Saving (Million Metric Tons)  Note3 94.3 103.4 129.0 133.6 
 Scope 2 (Metric Ton CO2 equivalent) (Market-based) 
 Scope 2 (Metric Ton CO2 equivalent) (Location-based) 
    Direct Energy Consumption (GWh) (Including nature gas and diesel)  
    Indirect Energy Consumption (GWh) (Electricity)  
    Taiwan Facilities 
    Subsidiaries  Note2 
 Scope 1 (Metric Ton CO2 equivalent) 
 Scope 3 (Metric Ton CO2 equivalent) 
    Taiwan Facilities 
    Subsidiaries  Note2 
    Taiwan Facilities 
    Subsidiaries Note2 
NOX Emissions (Metric Tons) 
SOX Emissions (Metric Tons) 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
 1,259,527 1,194,136 1,185,433  1,081,212  
1,648,268 1,640,532 1,705,746 1,678,754 
5,378,443 6,080,212 6,349,642 6,697,872 
5,030,647 5,702,511  6,325,931  6,673,235 
2,035,510 2,075,928  2,125,725   2,071,743  
7,413,953 8,156,140 8,475,367 8,769,614 
3,767,411 4,242,521 4,315,497 5,307,028 
387,242 435,396 419,979  392,989 
347,796 377,701 23,711 24,637 
347,796 377,701 7,001,654 7,350,195 
60.54 82.5 118.92  116.67 
9,848 12,016 13,167 14,323 
9,358  11,388 12,441 13,576 
33.08  43.87   39.71 32.18 
163.6 170.8 168.4 102.1 
38.6 45.2 51.0 58.0 
42.0 48.9 56.8 64.3 
87.4 87.5 87.5 86.7 
489  628 726 747 
3.4 3.8 5.7 6.3 
(Continued on next page) 
(Continued from previous page) 
Note 1: Figures from all Taiwan facilities and subsidiaries of TSMC. Note 2: The scope of subsidiaries in Environmental parts includes WaferTech, TSMC China Company Limited, TSMC Nanjing Company Limited and VisEra. Note 3: Figures from all Taiwan facilities of TSMC. Note 4: Safety  Injury Frequency Rate Injury Number x 1,000,000 Total hours worked According to the Occupational Safety and Health Act, Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR) Disabling Severity Rate (SR) are defined as any diseases,  injuries, disabilities, or deaths of workers caused by buildings, machinery, equipment, raw materials, materials, chemicals, gases, vapors, dusts, etc.,  at the place of duty, or as a result of work activities, or due to other occupational causes. Other unrelated injuries in the workplace such as falling in  the cafeteria or parking lot due to various reasons are not considered as work injuries. Target has been amended according to new definition. See  Statistical Analysis of Disabling Injuries for detailed information. 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Environmental 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Key Indicators 
Ultra-Pure Water Usage (Million Metric Tons) 
Tetramethylammonium hydroxide (TMAH) 
Copper ion (Cu 2 ) 
ISO 14001 Certified Facilities 
ISO 14001 Certified Facilities (%)  100 100 100 100 100 
Numbers of Employee  
Employee Training Hours  
Women in Workforce (%) 
Females in Management (%) 
Females in Junior Management (%)  
Females in Top Management (%) 
Turnover Rate (%) 
Voluntary Turnover Rate (%) 
Safety Injury Frequency Rate  Note4 
Safety Injury Severity Rate  Note5 
Fatalities Employees 
Fatalities Contractors 
Cash Donation (NT  million)  Note6 89.1 301.2 199.0Note7 163.5 144.4 
Waste Generated (Metric Tons)  
    Taiwan Facilities 
    Subsidiaries  Note2 
    Taiwan Facilities 
    Subsidiaries  Note2 
    Taiwan Facilities 
    Subsidiaries  Note2 
Hazardous Waste Generated   
Waste Recycling Rate (%)  
General Waste Generated (Metric Tons)  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Note 5: Safety  Injury Severity Rate Lost Work Days x 1,000,000 Total hours worked According to the Occupational Safety and Health Act, Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR) Disabling Severity Rate (SR) are defined as any diseases,  injuries, disabilities, or deaths of workers caused by buildings, machinery, equipment, raw materials, materials, chemicals, gases, vapors, dusts, etc.,  at the place of duty, or as a result of work activities, or due to other occupational causes. Other unrelated injuries in the workplace such as falling in  the cafeteria or parking lot due to various reasons are not considered as work injuries. Target has been amended according to new definition. See  Statistical Analysis of Disabling Injuries for detailed information. Note 6: Cash donation is the amount of cash donations by TSMC, TSMC Education and Culture Foundation, TSMC Charity Foundation, TSMC employees and  TSMC Employee Welfare Committee. Note 7: In response to the government's renewable energy policy, TSMC purchased 100 GWh green power in 2017, which was the main reason for the increase  in annual cash donations. The government's green power purchase plan was terminated at the end of 2017. TSMC is proactively searching for  renewable energy. 
158,899 196,077 208,340 212,465 269,640 
163,584 201,114 213,840 219,584 277,340 
133,085 165,891 169,427 183,015 280,635 
135,177 168,631 179,944 197,131 298,400 
623,711 639,852 540,408 741,178 926,379 
298,761 369,745 393,784 416,715 575,740 
46,968 48,602 48,752 51,297 56,831 
4,685 5,037 5,501 7,119 7,700 
2,092 2,740 10,516 14,116 17,765 
68.8 79.7 85.1 90.1 102.4 
12.8 13.6 13.7 13.6 13.0 
0.29 0.35 0.47 0.52 0.42 
16.3 12.9 13.1 7.9 6.3 
40.1 39.3 38.7 37.8 37.1 
0.19 0.22 0.18 0.09 0.07 
20.0 20.0 18.5 11.1 10.0 
11.7 12.3 12.6 12.7 12.5 
4.3 4.2 4.5 4.9 5.3 
4.2 4.1 4.3 4.8 5.1 
95 95 95 95 96 
95 95 95 96 95 
79 80 83 74 77 
18 20 22 22 23 
GRI Standards Comparison Table 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
About TSMC 102-3 Location of headquarters 
About TSMC 102-4 Location of operations 
About TSMC  Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report (II) Financial Statements 102-5 Ownership and legal form 
About TSMC 102-6 Markets served 
About TSMC  Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report (II) Financial Statements 102-7 Scale of the organization 
102-8 Information on employees and  other workers 
About TSMC  Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report (II) Financial Statements A Responsible Purchaser: Supplier Sustainability Management 102-10 Significant changes to the organization  and its supply chain 
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 
102-12 External initiatives 
102-13 Membership of associations  Appendix: Participation in Industry Associations and Non-profit Organizations 
Sustainable Business Practices: ESG Implementation Framework, ESG Management Platform Letter from the ESG Steering Committee Chairperson, Letter from the ESG Committee Chairperson  102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Sustainable Business Practices: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication 
GRI 102  General Disclosures 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Name of the organization 
Activities, brands, products, and services 
Supply chain 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
About TSMC 
About TSMC 
An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention - Shared Visions and Values- Workforce Structure All employee number has been disclosed in "Workforce Structure", the number of contractors has also disclosed in the note In 2020, there were 2,605 non-employee workers conducted preventive maintenance tasks for facility systems. 
A Responsible Purchaser: Supplier Sustainability Management - Sustainability Risk Management Local Procurement Optimization  Details please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report 5.3.5  
The risk management organization regularly briefs the audit committee on the ever-changing risk environment facing TSMC, the focus of  the Company s enterprise risk management, and risk assessment and mitigation efforts. The audit committee s chairperson also reports  on the risk environment and risk mitigation actions to be taken. TSMC and its subsidiaries are committed to proactively and cost effectively  integrating and managing strategic, operational, financial and hazardous risks together with potential consequences to operations and  financial results. TSMC operates an enterprise risk management (ERM) program and apply a risk map considering likelihood and impact  severity to identify and prioritize corporate risks. Various risk treatment strategies are also adopted in response corporate risks as they are  identified.  Refer section 6.3 Risk Management of 2020 TSMC Annual Report for details of implementation of ERM (Eneterprise Risk Management)  
Responsible Business Alliance (RBA, the previous EICC) and Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP, the previous Conflict- free Smelter Program)  Participated in RE100  TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) Supporter, committed  to evaluating and publicly disclosing climate change risks and opportunities 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and  norms of behavior  
Chair of the highest governance body  The Chair of the highest governance body is not an executive officer 102-23 
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and  concerns about ethics 
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on  economic, environmental, and  social topics  
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic,  environmental, and social topics  Letter from the ESG Steering Committee Chairperson  Letter from the ESG Committee Chairperson Sustainable Business Practices: ESG Management Platform 
102-18 Governance structure  Sustainable Business Practices: ESG Management Platform Operations and Governance: Corporate Governance-Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 
102-19 Delegating authority  Sustainable Business Practices: ESG Management Platform 
102-22 Composition of the highest  governance body and its  committees  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 2.4.1 Information Regarding Board Members 3 Corporate Governance 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3.5 Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 3.6 Regulatory Compliance 
Operations and Governance: Corporate Governance-Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 
Operations and Governance: Corporate Governance-Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3.5 Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 3.6 Regulatory Compliance 5.5.6 Employee Engagement Employee Communication 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 2.3.1 Organization Chart 3 Corporate Governance 
Sustainable Business Practices: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication Operations and Governance: Corporate Governance 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3.4 Taiwan Corporate Governance Implementation as Required by the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission Assessment Item 5 
Operations and Governance: Corporate Governance 
   TSMC s Board of Directors consists of distinguished members with a great breadth of experience as world-class business leaders or  professionals. All of them have management experience and competency in economic, environmental and social topics.    TSMC established its Audit Committee and Compensation Committee in 2002 and 2003, respectively, both of which are now  composed entirely of independent directors. 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
102-24 In 2019, TSMC established  Guidelines for Nomination of Directors , which describes the procedures and criteria for the  nomination, qualification and evaluation of candidates for Directors. Please refer to our website. 
102-25 Conflicts of interest  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Nominating and selecting the  highest governance body  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
TSMC envisions the membership of its esteemed Board of Directors to be composed of highly ethical professionals with the  necessary knowledge, experience and understanding from diverse backgrounds. TSMC envisions its Board to be composed of  as many independent directors as possible, and the independence of each independent director candidate is also considered  and assessed under relevant laws. Therefore, TSMC composes its Board with world-class candidates who are were international  or local business leaders in the high-tech industry, prestigious academics or other professionals excelling in their chosen field of  expertise. All of them have management experience and competency in economic, environmental and social topics. 
Directors shall be elected pursuant to the candidate nomination system specified in Article 192-1 of the R.O.C. Company Law. The  tenure of office for Directors shall be three years. The independence of each independent director candidate is also considered  and assessed under relevant law such as the Taiwan  Regulations Governing Appointment of Independent Directors and  Compliance Matters for Public Companies . Under R.O.C. law, in which TSMC was incorporated, any shareholders holding one  percent or more of our total outstanding common shares may nominate their own candidate to stand for election as a Board  member. This democratic mechanism allows our shareholders to become involved in the selection and nomination process of  Board candidates. The final slate of candidates is put to the shareholders for voting at the relevant annual shareholders' meeting. 
There are no limits on the number of terms that a director may serve. We believe the Company benefits from the contributions of  directors who have over their years of dedicated service acquired unique insights into the operations and financial developments  of the Company. The Company reviews the appropriateness of each director s continued service to ensure there are new  viewpoints available to the Board. 
The avoidance of conflicts of interests is governed by several corporate processes. First, any director or executive officer who, for  him herself or on behalf of another, wishes to engage in any business activity that overlaps with TSMC's business must obtain the  prior approval of our shareholders' meeting or Board of Directors respectively in accordance with relevant laws. Second, each  board member and executive officer must complete an annual declaration on related party transactions which is reviewed by our  Audit Committee. Third, we are subject to strenuous reporting requirements on reporting any related party transactions under  both R.O.C. and U.S. security rules. 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 2.4.1 Information Regarding Board Members 4.1.4 Major Shareholders 4.1.8 Related Party Relationship among TSMC s 10 Largest Shareholders 5.3.5 Raw Materials and Supply Chain Management-Suppliers Accounted for at Least 10% of Annual Consolidated Net  Procurement 5.4 Customer Trust-Customers Accounted for at Least 10% of Annual Consolidated Net Revenue 8.1 Subsidiaries 
Please refer to Consolidated Financial Statements for 2020:  Note 38: Additional Disclosures Table 6 - Total Purchases from or Sales to Related Parties of at Least NT 100 Million or 20% of the Paid-in Capital 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
Evaluating the highest governance  body s performance  102-28 
Collective knowledge of highest  governance body 102-27 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Role of highest governance body  in setting purpose, values, and  strategy 
Identifying and managing  economic, environmental, and  social impacts 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Chairperson of the ESG Committee reports annually to the Board of Directors on implementation results of the prior year and  the work planned for the upcoming year (the report includes economic, environmental and social topics). In addition, the Board  of Directors also reviews the annual plan and the donations of the "TSMC Education and Culture Foundation" and "TSMC Charity  Foundation".    TSMC's Board of Directors consists of distinguished members with a great breadth of experience as world-class business leaders  or professionals. All of them have management experience and competency in economic, environmental and social topics.    TSMC has set an "ESG Policy" and an "ESG Matrix", and the "ESG Matrix" clearly defines the scope of the TSMC's responsibilities. 
Sustainable Business Practices: ESG Implementation Framework, ESG Management Platform 
   TSMC's Chairperson chairs the ESG Steering Committee and the ESG Committee chair acts as the executive secretary. The  
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3. Corporate Governance  Continuing Education Training of Directors  in 2020. 
Operations and Governance: Corporate Governance-Board of Directors and Committees-Board and Audit Committee Performance  Evaluations 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3.1 Corporate Governanc 2020 Corporate Governance Awards and Ratings 3.2 Board of Directors Director's Compensation 3.4 Taiwan Corporate Governance Implementation as Required by Taiwan Financial Supervisory  Commission Assessment Item 3 - (3) 7     Corporate Social Responsibility 2020 ESG Awards and Ratings 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3.2 Board of Directors The Board of Directors considers economic, environmental and social topics and their impact, risks and opportunities, and  stakeholder opinions, when resolving important company matters, for example, when approving capital appropriations. The Board  will also review the corporate strategies proposed by TSMC management, evaluate the prospects of these strategies, review their  progress, and provide guidance to TSMC management when needed. 3.2.1 Audit Committee 3.2.2 Compensation Committee 3.4 Taiwan Corporate Governance Implementation as Required by Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission Assessment Item 5 6.3 Risk Management 7    Corporate Social Responsibility ESG Management Stakeholder Engagement      
Quarterly management reports and semi-annual CSR reports develop and enhance the Board of Directors' collective knowledge of  economic, environmental and social topics. 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
Communicating  critical concerns 102-33 
Remuneration policies 102-35 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 6.3 Risk Management Effectiveness of risk  management processes  102-30 
Highest governance body's role  in sustainability reporting  102-32 
Nature and total number  of critical concerns 102-34 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Review of economic,  environmental, and social  topics 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
   Public Relations department: press releases In addition, the Board maintains a regular line of communication with TSMC management, which will remain open if an event of  critical concerns occurs. 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3.2.4 Director and Committees Members' Attendance Audit Committee Meeting Status 
Operations and Governance: Corporate Governance-Board of Directors and Committees 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3. Corporate Governance 6.3 Risk Management 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3 Corporate Governance (This report is reviewed and approved by the Company's functional heads and Chairperson of the ESG Committee) 
In addition to holding regular meetings, TSMC management will regularly provide to the Board of Directors material company reports  and information: 
   Accounting department: monthly financial information and quarterly financial statements 
   Internal Audit department: quarterly internal audit report 
Please refer to the material information the Company has disclosed on Market Observation Post System (MOPS), which indicates the  total number and nature of critical concerns. 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 6.3 Enterprise Risk Management Framework: TSMC and its subsidiaries adopt risk management strategies corresponding to risk level through implementing an Enterprise  Risk Management (ERM) system that weighs strategic, operational, financial and hazardous risks that may disrupt the Company's  operations or financial results. If any events of critical concerns occur, the Company can resolve the event by using existing risk  management mechanisms. 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report : The extent and value of the services provided for the management of the Corporation and  operating performance includes objectives for economic, environmental, and social topics. 2.4.2 Remuneration Paid to Directors 2.5.2 Compensation Paid to CEO and Vice Presidents 2.5.3 Employees' Profit Sharing Bonus Paid to Management Team Pension funded according to applicable law and there is no difference with other employees. 
And also, 2020 CSR Report : An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention-Compensation and Benefits-Benefits Better Than Statutory Regulations,  Solid Pension System. Our compensation is above the industry peers, and our benefit program also exceeds statutory requirements. 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
Stakeholders' involvement in  remuneration  102-37 
Annual total  compensation ratio 102-38 
Restatements of information 102-48 
An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention-Competitive Compensation Package Headcount and average annual compensation of non-corporate executive full-time employees, and year-over-year difference.   Percentage increase in annual total  compensation ratio 102-39 
Sustainable Business Practices: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication List of stakeholder groups  102-40 An Admired Employer: Human Rights-Employee Engagement TSMC values employee opinions interests and therefore offers several communication channels. The highest-level executives  of the HR organization are responsible for many of the channels, ensuring that matters are handled in an efficient and  confidential manner as we continue to strive towards an open and transparent environment for employees managers and  colleagues to communicate. Furthermore, TSMC respects employees' right to take part in collective bargaining and peaceful  rallies. In accordance with legal requirements in Taiwan, the Company regularly holds labor-management meetings to brief  employees on Company operations and invite employees to engage in discussions on labor conditions and benefits. 
Collective bargaining  agreements 102-41 
Sustainable Business Practices: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication Identifying and selecting stakeholders  102-42 Sustainable Business Practices: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication Approach to stakeholder engagement 102-43 Sustainable Business Practices: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication Key topics and concerns raised 102-44 
Appendix: About This Report Changes in reporting  102-49 Appendix: About This Report Reporting period  102-50 
About TSMC  Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report (II) Financial Statements Entities included in the consolidated  financial statements  102-45 
Sustainable Business Practices: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication Appendix: About This Report Defining report content and topic  Boundaries  102-46 
Sustainable Business Practices: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication List of material topics  102-47 
Process for determining  remuneration  102-36 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention-Competitive Compensation Package 
An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention-Competitive Compensation Package 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3.2.2 Compensation Committee 3.2.4Director and Committees Members' Attendance  Compensation Committee Meeting Status 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 4.1.12 Compensation to Directors and Profit Sharing to Employees 
   Based on TSMC s Articles of Incorporation, before paying dividends or bonuses to shareholders, TSMC shall set aside not  more than 0.3% of its annual profit to directors as compensation and not less than 1% to employees as a profit sharing.      TSMC's Articles of Incorporation shall be approved by the shareholders and the annual employees' profit sharing and  directors' compensation will be reported  in the next AGM. 
   Median of global employees annual total compensation  
   Annual total compensation ratio between CEO and median 
   TSMC's production is primarly measured in 12-inch wafers. The unit product indicators mentioned in the "A Practitioner of  Green Power" are calculated based on 12-inch equivalent wafers.    Only work-related injuries shall be treated as SR FR, unrelated injuries in the workplace are not considered. 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
Appendix: About This Report Claims of reporting in accordance  with the GRI Standards 102-54 
Appendix: About This Report Contact point for questions  regarding the report  102-53 
Appendix: GRI Standards Comparison Table GRI content index 102-55 
Appendix: Independent Third Party Assurance Statement External assurance  102-56 
102-52 Reporting cycle Appendix: About This Report 202 
102-51 Date of most recent report  June, 2020 
GRI 103 Management Approach 
GRI 201 Economic Performance 
Please refer to the contents of related topics Evaluation of the  management approach 103-3 
Please refer to the contents of related topics The management approach and its  components 103-2 
Financial assistance received  from government 201-4 
Sustainable Business Practices: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication Explanation of the material topic and  its Boundary 103-1 
Defined benefit plan obligations  and other retirement plans 201-3 
Direct economic value  generated and distributed 201-1 
Financial implications and other risks  and opportunities due to climate change 201-2 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention-Compensation and Benefits-Solid Pension System -Pension Allocation and Preparation TSMC's  defined contribution plan recognized expenses of NT 2,809,484 thousand for the years ended December 31, 2020. TSMC  makes monthly contributions equal to 6% of each employee s monthly salary in Taiwan. TSMC s oversea subsidiaries also make  monthly contributions at certain percentages of the basic salary of their employees in accordance with local practices. 
Financial assistance received from the R.O.C. government: In 2020, TSMC enjoyed a tax benefit of NT 47.1 billion from five-year tax  exemption for capital investments made in previous years. (Our wafer fabs in China received subsidies from the local government,  but according to the agreement, TSMC can not disclose the content and amount.) 
Sustainable Business Practices: Sustainability Impact An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention - Compensation and Benefits Operations and Governance: Financial Performance Tax Policy Appendix: ESG Performance Summary 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report (II) Financial Statements for detailed information. 
A Practitioner of Green Power: Climate Change and Energy Management-Climate Risks Identification, Climate Risks Matrix, Climate  Financial Risk Analysis  Appendix: Climate Change Management Framework 
135 135 196 206 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
GRI 202 Market Presence 
Proportion of senior management hired  from the local community 202-2 
GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services  supported 
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 
GRI 204  Procurement Practices 
Proportion of spending on local suppliers  204-1 
GRI 205  Anti-corruption 
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related  to corruption 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Ratios of standard entry level  wage by gender compared to local  minimum wage  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention - Compensation and Benefits - Competitive Compensation Package 
In 2020, the average overall salary of a TSMC new engineer with a master's degree is more than NT 1.8 million. The salary includes 12-month  base salary, two-month year-end bonus, cash bonus and profit sharing. The average overall salary of direct employees is higher than NT 1  million, which is 4 times of the minimum wage in Taiwan. 
For the non-TSMC employee workers, TSMC requests their companies that the compensation paid to their workers shall comply with all  applicable wage laws, including those relating to minimum wages, overtime hours and legally mandated benefits. 
In the 2020 TSMC Annual Report, 2.5.1 Information Regarding Management Team, we disclosed that 19 out of 25 members of the  management team are local, accounting for 76.0%. Definition:  Senior management: management team is disclosed in 2020 TSMC Annual Report, 2.5.1 Information Regarding Management Team Local: defined by nationality Important base: defined as where the headquarter located and where the majority of employees work. 
Power to Change Society: TSMC Charity Foundation. Contents including donation, in-kind giving, construction services, repair  services, volunteers services, etc. 
In total, TSMC deployed 281 distinct process technologies, and manufactured 11,617 products for 510 customers in 2020 to continue  to bring significant contribution to the advancement of modern society. 
Sustainable Business Practices: Sustainability Impact 
Operations and Governance: Corporate Governance-Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 
TSMC assesses anti-corruption risk by function rather than by geographical region since more than 90% of TSMC employees work in Taiwan.   Based on the TSMC core value of Integrity, our anti-corruption risk assessment incorporates applicable regulations, classifies corruption by type,  accounts for our business operation procedures and specifications, requires full compliance and implementation by all employees, mandates  annual self-assessments and examinations, and establishes open reporting channels (internal and external) and whistleblower protection. An  objective of our anti-corruption risk assessment is to detect abnormal incidents early and effectively prevent the occurrence of corruption.  Based on TSMC 2020 s training regimes and awareness campaign, employee ethics survey, annual CSA (Control Self-Assessment) Reports  received from each division, and a review of the reported anti-corruption incidents from our reporting channels and the results of subsequent  investigations thereto, our corruption risk is appropriately controlled and no significant corruption risk was identified.  
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3.5 Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 3.6 Regulatory Compliance 
A Responsible Purchaser: Local Procurement Optimization 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
GRI 206  Anti-competitive Behavior 
205-2 Communication and training  about anti-corruption policies and  procedures 
Operations and Governance: Tax Policy 207-1 Approach to tax 
Operations and Governance: Tax Policy 207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk  management 
Operations and Governance: Tax Policy 207-3 Stakeholder engagement and  management of concerns related to tax 
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption  and actions taken 
207-4 Country-by-country reporting 
GRI 207  Tax 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Legal actions for anti-competitive  behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly  practices 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Operations and Governance: Corporate Governance-Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 
Integrity is the most important value of TSMC's culture. TSMC publises the "TSMC Anti-Corruption Commitment" to reiterate that  TSMC take a zero-tolerance approach toward corruption, meanwhile elaborating the regulations regarding avoiding conflicts of  interest, political and charitable contributions, and whistleblower channel. Please refer to our website. 
TSMC provides anti-corruption and ethics training when each new colleague. For the current colleagues, TSMC provides a variety  of training courses in the form of face-to-face courses, communication meetings, online compulsory and elective courses,  and provides regulatory compliance guidelines and FAQs through the factory posters, company's internal website, internal  e-mails, and education propaganda articles, etc., to ensure colleagues access to new knowledge of regulations and deepen their  knowledge of various issues.  In 2020, TSMC provided current colleagues with "Annual Ethics and Compliance Training Course"(mandatory 0.5 hour online  course). The completion rate of each operating base is as follows: 99.7% in Taiwan, and Asian regions outside Taiwan (Mainland,  Japan, South Korea), North America (U.S., Canada), and Europe are all 100%. 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report:  3.2.1 Audit Committee  3.5 Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  3.6 Regulatory Compliance 
Operations and Governance: Corporate Governance-Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report:  3.5 Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report:  6.3.3 Operational Risks Risks Associated with Litigious and Non-litigious Matters 
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) developed a country-by-country reporting system in which  the Taiwan R.O.C. government participates. This reporting process was developed in part to aid tax authorities in their audit selection  processes. Under the OECD agreement, this reporting information is kept with tax authorities who have the tax expertise to understand  and assess this business-sensitive tax information. TSMC supports the business information provided as part of the country-by- country reporting system remaining exclusively with government tax authorities. 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
A Practitioner of Green Power: Climate Change and Energy Management - Increase Energy Efficiency Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 7.2.2 Sustainable Products Reductions in energy requirements of  products and services 302-5 
Water withdrawal 303-3 
GRI 302 Energy 
GRI 303 Water 
Appendix: ESG Performance Summary (Environmental Dimension) Energy consumption within the  organization 302-1 
A Practitioner of Green Power: Climate Change and Energy Management - GHG Emissions Inventory Energy consumption outside of the  organization 302-2 
Appendix: ESG Performance Summary (Environmental Dimension) Energy intensity 302-3 
A Practitioner of Green Power: Climate Change and Energy Management-Increase Energy Efficiency Reduction of energy consumption 302-4 
A Practitioner of Green Power: Water Management-Risk Management of Water Resources Interactions with water as a shared  resource 303-1 
A Practitioner of Green Power: Water Management-Develop Preventive Measures Management of water discharge-related  impacts 303-2 
A Practitioner of Green Power: Water Management-Risk Management of Water Resources Water discharge 303-4 
A Practitioner of Green Power: Water Management-Risk Management of Water Resources Water consumption 303-5 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
A Practitioner of Green Power: Water Management-Risk Management of Water Resources It is necessary to disclose the proportion of the water withdrawal to the total water withdrawal of the water area in the high or  extremely high water stress risk area according to the World Resources Institute (WRI) water stress evaluation. TSMC (China) is  a high-risk area of water stress. Its water withdrawal area is the Jinze Reservoir, which supplies 2.56 million tons per day. TSMC  (China) uses 0.6 million tons of water per day, accounting for 0.2% of its water withdrawal area. 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX),  and other significant air emissions 305-7 A Practitioner of Green Power: Air Pollution Control 
GRI 305 Emissions 
GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 
GRI 307 Environmental Compliance 
GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 
Disclosure 306-5 Waste directed to disposal A Practitioner of Green Power: Waste Management 306-5 
Appendix: ESG Performance Summary (Environmental Dimension) Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 305-1 
Appendix: ESG Performance Summary (Environmental Dimension) Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 305-2 
Appendix: ESG Performance Summary (Environmental Dimension) Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 305-3 
Appendix: ESG Performance Summary (Environmental Dimension) GHG emissions intensity 305-4 
A Practitioner of Green Power: Climate Change and Energy Management-GHG Reduction Best Practices, GHG Emissions  InventoryA Practitioner of Green Power: Climate Change and Energy Management-Expanding Usage of Renewable Energies Reduction of GHG emissions 305-5 
TSMC does not use Motreal Protocol restricted ODS. Emissions of ozone-depleting  substances (ODS) 305-6 
A Practitioner of Green Power: Waste Management Waste generation and significant waste- related impacts 306-1 
A Practitioner of Green Power: Waste Management Management of significant waste-related  impacts 306-2 
A Practitioner of Green Power: Waste Management Waste generated 306-3 
A Practitioner of Green Power: Waste Management Waste diverted from disposal 306-4 
Company has no significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance of environmental laws and regulations 2020. Non-compliance with environmental  laws and regulations 307-1 
A Responsible Purchaser: Supplier Sustainability Management-2020 Goals and Achievements  100% new suppliers compliant and signed "TSMC ethics and supplier code of conduct" New suppliers that were screened using  environmental criteria 308-1 
Negative environmental impacts in the  supply chain and actions taken 308-2 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Emissions in 2020: NOX: 170.36 tons SOX: 38.13 tons 
A Responsible Purchaser: Supplier Sustainability Management - Sustainability Risk Management 
TSMC requires suppliers to meet its sustainability standards through the "TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct", which includes  environmental impact issues, and requires Tier 1 suppliers to complete a sustainability self-assessment questionnaire. In 2020,  a total of 1,144 responses to the questionnaire (including operating units in Taiwan and China) were collected in the 2020. If the  supplier has potential risks, they will be required to follow up with improvement. 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
GRI 401 Employment 
GRI 402 Labor Management Relations 
GRI 403 Occupational Safety and Health 
New employee hires and employee  turnover 401-1 
Minimum notice periods regarding  operational changes  402-1 
An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention-Compensation and Benefits-Parental Benefits Parental leave  401-3 
Occupational safety and health  management system 403-1 
Hazard identification, risk assessment,  and incident investigation 403-2 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Benefits provided to full-time  employees that are not provided to  temporary or part-time employees 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention-Compensation and Benefits-Benefits Better Than Statutory Regulations 
Note: TSMC provides localized leave and insurance programs to employees in overseas regions. We grant additional days of annual leave to  employees in Taiwan, China, North America and Europe. As for insurance programs, the comprehensive life and medical insurance programs are  also designed in consideration of local regulations, industry practices and local conditions for each overseas region. 
An Admired Employer: Human Rights-Employee Engagement 
In order to implement occupational safety and health management and control, TSMC established an executive organization with the  division of roles and responsibilities. In response to the requirements and expectations of TSMC from internal and external stakeholders,  in 2020, in addition to continuing to improve the existing safety culture promotion and risk management measures and in response  to expansion plans, the number of contractors entering TSMC has reached 39,470 people per day. TSMC has standardized contractor  operational safety and health management procedures, established the "Contractor Environmental Safety and Health Blue Book",  strengthened the safety management system, and cooperated with contractors to create a safe and friendly environment. The corporate- level Safety and Health Committee is hosted by the Corporate ESH Director, percentage of total workforce represented is 44%. 
An Admired Employer: Occupational Safety and Health - Promote Safety Culture - Statistics on Disabling Injuries 
The definition for occupational accidents is in accordance with the Occupational Safety and Health Act and important disabling injury  indicators issued by the Global Reporting Initiative which uses Disabling Severity Rate (SR) and Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR) as primary  indicators. In 2020, TSMC reviewed the Occupational Safety and Health Act stipulating that only work-related injuries shall be counted towards  SR  FR. Other non-work injuries such as falling in the cafeteria or parking lot due to other reasons shall not be counted towards occupational  injuries but should be investigated and resolved. Employee vacation, medical insurance, and insurance shall remain the same. In 2020, there  were 43 disabling injuries among employees with 422 working days lost. Of the 43 disabling injuries, 29 were from men with 308 working days  lost and 14 were from women with 114 working days lost. Men suffered from a higher number of work-related disabling injuries and working  days lost than women did. Aside from falling, the main causes were crushing injuries, cuts, scrapes, and punctures during maintenance.  Improvement measures include: Implemented LOTO (Lock out Tag out) measures that require employees to lock out and tag out all moving  parts during maintenance. In 2020, 2,577 operations were completed and added to the Maintenance Procedures. Safety and health training  materials now contain chapters on when and how to use protective gear for cuts scrapes punctures. 
   Approximately 90% of TSMC employees are located in Taiwan. Overseas employees are mostly located in Asia, which is only 6.9% of all  employees  the proportion of other regions is lower.    In 2020, to align with the Company s growth, TSMC expanded recruitment and introduced 7,322 new hires in Taiwan and 8,193 new  hires around the world. Among them, 79.5% of all new hires are below the age of 30. 
An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention - Shared Visions and Values - Talent Recruitment - Campus Recruitment 
   Any significant issues and changes will be announced in quarterly meetings. Extraordinary meetings may be held when necessary. 
   If the employment relationship with some employees needs to be terminated due to major operational changes, the Company will notify  employees in advance abide by the law. 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
GRI 404 Training and Education 
Average hours of training per year per  employee 404-1 
Programs for upgrading employee skills  and transition assistance programs 404-2 
An Admired Employer: Occupational Safety and Health-Promote Safety Culture-Safety and Health Measures Worker training on occupational health  and safety 403-5 
An Admired Employer: Occupational Safety and Health-Comprehensive Health Management-Health Care Promotion of worker health 403-6 
An Admired Employer: Occupational Safety and Health-Promote Safety Culture-Statistics on Disabling Injuries Work-related injuries 403-9 
Occupational health services 403-3 
Workers include the scope of employees and contractors Workers covered by an occupational  safety and health management system 403-8 
An Admired Employer: Occupational Safety and Health -Comprehensive Health Management-Prevention Measures    Achievements against Occupational Diseases Work-related ill health 403-10 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
An Admired Employer: Occupational Safety and Health-Promote Safety Culture-Safety and Health Measures Worker participation, consultation, and  communication on occupational safety  and health 
An Admired Employer: Occupational Safety and Health-Comprehensive Health Management-Occupational Disease Prevention Prevention and mitigation of  occupational safety and health impacts  directly linked by business relationships 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
An Admired Employer: Talent Development-Fulfill Talent Development 
TSMC's occupational health risk management plan covers both occupational hazards (Including the five major hazards:  chemical, physical, ergonomic, social  psychological, and biological) and personal health (including pregnancy, poor  cerebrovascular  cardiovascular functions, muscle and bones, stress management, etc.), which need to be improved to  protect employees  health. In accordance with legal regulations on occupational safety and health, all employees involved  in operations with special health examination, a total of 4,753 individuals, completed 100% special health examinations. 
An Admired Employer: Talent Development-Fulfill Talent Development-Diverse and Equal Opportunities for Learning and Development 
   The current design of the training system does not include the average hours of training per employee per year based on  gender     Reveal the average hours of training per employee each year  
   Reveal the average hours of training by different categories of employees per year(manager, non-manager indirector  employee, and direct employee) 
   Although it does not provide transition assistance programs for "employees who have ended their careers due to  retirement or termination of employment relationships", the company's "talent development" goals have always been  focused on ensuring that employees can keep up with the times to support the companie's long-term growth and  meeting the needs of employees for lifelong learning. In other words, as long as employees continue to learn step by  step under the company s talent development system, they will be well prepared for their career development after  leaving the job.    If employees who are leaving the company have individual needs, they can also get professional counseling services  in psychological, legal and financial aspects through "Consultation and Consultation" 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
GRI 406 Non-discrimination 
Incidents of discrimination and  corrective actions taken 406-1 
An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention - Workforce Structure - TSMC Compensation Ratio by Gender Ratio of basic salary and  remuneration of women to mena 405-2 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Diversity of governance bodies  and employees 
Percentage of employees receiving  regular performance and career  development reviews 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Operations and Governance: Corporate Governance-Board of Directors and Committees 
Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report:  2.4.1 Information Regarding Board Members  TSMC's Board is comprised of a diverse group of professionals from different backgrounds in industries, academia, law, etc.  These professionals include citizens from Taiwan, Europe and the U.S. with world-class business operating experience, one of  whom is female (the ratio is 10%). 
An Admired Employer: Human Rights 
   Act in accordance with the TSMC Human Rights Policy and the (RBA) Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct 
   Formulate implementation policies and management methods -Each operating base has a dedicated unit to form a "planning,  execution, inspection, and action" cycle    Require employees to participate in human rights protection training 
An Admired Employer: Talent Development-Fulfill Talent Development-Diverse and Equal Opportunities for Learning and Development 
Based on individual job requirements, performance assessment results (The performance appraisal was conducted in the middle  of the year and at the end of the year, and the assessment rate was 100% in 2019), and career development needs, the employees of  TSMC set up their own individual development plans (IDP), which are part of the basis of the company's annual training plan. 
An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention-Shared Visions and Values-Talent Recruitment 
TSMC's Board is comprised of a diverse group of professionals from different backgrounds in industries, academia, law, etc.  These professionals include citizens from Taiwan, Europe and the U.S. with world-class business operating experience.  In 2020, a total of 8,193 employees were hired, including members of younger generations, overseas elites, and the physically and  mentally handicapped. 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
GRI 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargainin 
GRI 408 Child Labor 
Operations and suppliers at significant  risk for incidents of child labor 408-1 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Operations and suppliers in which the  right to freedom of association and  collective bargaining may be at risk 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
An Admired Employer: Human Rights Act in accordance with the TSMC Human Rights Policy and the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct 
   Formulate implementation policies and management methods 
   Each site of operations has a dedicated unit to form a "planning, execution, inspection, and action" cycle 
   Require employees to participate in human rights protection training 
   Establish a number of channels for employees' feedback, many of which are checked by the top human resources  organization and handled in a fast and confidential manner. We are committed to providing an open and transparent  communication environment for supervisors, colleagues, and peers.    The company respects the rights of all employees to organize and participate in the trade union of their choice, collective  bargaining, and participation in peaceful assemblies. It also respects the right of employees to avoid such activities. As of  now (including 2020), no employees have come forward to organize trade unions. 
A Responsible Purchaser: Supplier Sustainability Management-Sustainability Risk Management TSMC requires suppliers to meet its sustainability standards through the "TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct", which includes  workers freedom of association or group consensus, and requires Tier 1 suppliers to complete a sustainability self-assessment  questionnaire. In 2020, a total of 1,144 responses to the questionnaire (including operating units in Taiwan and China) were  collected in the 2020. If the supplier has potential risks, they will be required to follow up with improvement. 
TSMC abides by local laws and regulations, and take actions according to TSMC Human Rights Policy and Responsible Business  Alliance Code of Conduct. We treat all workers, including regular, contract, and temporary employees, and interns, with dignity  and respect, and reduce every kind of risk to protect our employees. More details on TSMC Human Rights Policy 
A Responsible Purchaser: Supplier Sustainability Management - Sustainability Risk Management 
TSMC requires suppliers to meet sustainability standards through the "TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct", which includes a no  child labor policy, and requires Tier 1 suppliers to complete a sustainability self-assessment questionnaire. In 2020, a total of  1,144 responses to the questionnaire (including operating units in Taiwan and China) were collected in the 2020. If the supplier  has potential risks, they will be required to follow up with improvement. 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
GRI 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor 
GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Operations that have been subject  to human rights reviews or impact  assessments 
Operations and suppliers at  significant risk for incidents of  forced or compulsory labor 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
An Admired Employer: Human Rights TSMC abides by local laws and regulations, and take actions according to "TSMC Human Rights Policy" and "Responsible Business  Alliance Code of Conduct".  
    Formulate implementation policies and management methodsEach site of operations has a dedicated unit to form a "planning,  execution, inspection, and action" cycle     Each site of operations has a dedicated unit to form a "planning, execution, inspection, and action" cycle 
    Require employees to participate in human rights protection training 
    Formulate "Working Hours Management Measures" that comply with laws and regulations. Except for the unanimous agreement  of   supervisors and colleagues, overtime pay or compensatory time off is required to extend working hours.     In addition to setting up a reminder function for supervisors and employees in the "attendance system and overtime reporting  system", and reviewing and controlling them month by month, they also carefully check their opinions and complaints  
An Admired Employer: Human Rights-Human Rights Governance-Human Rights Risk Management 
    Use the standardized risk assessment template (SAQ) designed by the "Responsible Business Alliance" to identify the highest  social, environmental and moral risks in the business     Entrust a third-party organization with special training in social and environmental audits to continuously implement the  "Verification Audit Process" (VAP) of the Responsible Business Alliance for all fabs     The results of the evaluation in 2020 are the same as those in the past few years, and both are in a "low risk" state 
A Responsible Purchaser: Supplier Sustainability Management-Sustainability Risk Management TSMC requires suppliers to meet the sustainability standards through the "TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct", which includes a no  bonded labor policy, and requires Tier 1 suppliers to complete a sustainability self-assessment questionnaire. In 2020, a total of  1,144 responses to the questionnaire (including operating units in Taiwan and China) were collected in the 2020. If the supplier has  potential risks, they will be required to follow up with improvement.   
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
A Responsible Purchaser: Supplier Sustainability Management - 2020 Goals and Achievements  New suppliers signed the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct for a completion rate of 100% and conducted risk assessment New suppliers that were screened  using social criteria 414-1 
Negative social impacts in the  supply chain and actions taken 414-2 
GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment 
GRI 416 Customer Safety and Health 
GRI 418 Customer Privacy 
GRI 419 Socioeconomic Compliance 
412-2 Employee training on human  rights policies or procedures 
In 2020, TSMC continued to construct new facilities in Taiwan. Taiwan has a high evaluation of international human rights  appraisal, and has no significant issues on this topic 412-3 Significant investment agreements  and contracts that include human  rights clauses or that underwent  human rights screening 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Not applicable Incidents of non-compliance  concerning the safety and health  impacts of products and services 
An Innovation Pioneer: Customer Service-customer's Virtual Fab (no customer complaints regarding information leakage) Substantiated complaints  concerning breaches of customer  privacy and losses of customer data 
Company has no significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance in social and economic areas in 2020 Non-compliance with laws and  regulations in the social and  economic area 
There is no significant safety and health impacts for the products and services that TSMC provided to customers. Assessment of the health and  safety impacts of product and  service categories 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
An Admired Employer: Human Rights-Human Rights Governance 
A Responsible Purchaser: Supplier Sustainability Management - Sustainability Risk Management Please refer to the "Protection of Labor Rights" action plan in the "Responsible Supply Chain" chapter, TSMC manages supplier  employees working in TSMC 's factory sites in Taiwan through reminders, audits, contracts and penalties and related actions  to address issues such as working hours safety labor 
   Disclose the total training hours, total number of employee and employee training percentages related to human rights policies 
   In 2020, TSMC provided employees with a total of 93,822 hours of human rights protection training. In total, 55,031 employees  (107,057 person-time employees) completed the training program, accounting for 96.8% of TSMC's total employees 
Climate Change Management Framework Note  
Note: TSMC's climate change management framework is presented in accordance with "Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures". 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Governance 
Strategies 
Category Corporate Management Strategies   Actions  2020 Enforcement Report  
    Assess the potential financial impact on TSMC from major climate risks and  opportunities  
    Conduct scenario analysis and assess Net Zero Emission targets    actions  
    Energy Saving and Carbon Emission Reduction Committee: The Energy  Saving and Carbon Emission Reduction Committee is the Company's  management organization for taking action on climate change risk and  opportunity. It is chaired by the Senior Vice President of Fab Operations.  Every quarter, this Committee formulates management plans, reviews  implementation status, and discusses future plans. 
    RM Steering Committee: The RM Steering Committee reports to the Audit  Committee annually on the risk environment, primary risk management  items, risk assessment, and response measures. The Audit Committee then  reports and discusses major items with the Board of Directors. 
The Board of Directors regularly reviews risks and opportunities related to climate  change. 
    ESG Steering Committee: The ESG Steering Committee is TSMC's top  organization in climate change management. The ESG Steering Committee  is chaired by the Chairman of TSMC, and the chair of the ESG Committee  serves as the executive secretary. It reviews TSMC's climate change strategies  and goals every six months and reports to the Board of Directors. (The CSR  Executive Committee was renamed as the ESG Steering Committee in 2021  and the meeting frequency has increased from biannually to quarterly)  
    Interdepartmental discussions and identifying short-, mid-, and long-term  climate risks and opportunities  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
    The Chair of the RM Steering Committee gave an annual report to the Audit  Committee Board of Directors on water, energy risks, renewable energy demands,  and other topics related to climate change. 
    The ESG Steering Committee is comprised of senior executives from various TSMC  organizations and formulates long-term 2030 goals and development strategies for  climate change and renewable energies. For more details, please refer to the ESG  Management Platform section of this report. 
    The executive secretary of the ESG Steering Committee reported to the Board and  received support on sustainable development strategies and progress for green  manufacturing, joining the RE100, purchasing renewable energies, long-term goals,  and other related projects. (The reporting frequency has been increased from  biannually to quarterly since 2021.) 
    The Energy Saving and Carbon Emission Reduction Committee defined five major  energy conservation teams for different process technologies to conserve more  energy from production equipment and fab facilities. As an incentive for the energy  conservation teams, the Energy-Saving and Carbon Reduction Committee awarded  Energy Conservation Model Awards and Energy Conservation Innovation Awards  according to the teams' success with energy conservation targets and innovative ideas. 
    The Committee also carried out 460 energy-saving measures across 8 different  categories and was able to conserve an additional 500 GWh in energy consumption.  For more details, please refer to the Increase Energy Efficiency section of this report. 
    Based on the 2-degree scenario of global warming set forth by the Intergovernmental  Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the committee analyzed climate risks in production    operation processes and formulated mitigation measures in compliance with the  Climate Risk Adaptation Standards  also established TSMC's climate change strategy  to strive towards Net Zero Emission. 
    According to interdepartmental discussions on climate risks and opportunities, the  Committee identified 8 opportunities and 11 risks. For more details, please refer to  the Climate Change Risk and Opportunity Matrix section of this report.  
    Completed qualitative assessment on the financial impact of climate risk and  opportunities and formulated risk mitigation measures accordingly (for more details,  please refer to the Financial Impact Analysis of Climate Change section of this report)  also  implemented quantitative assessment of the financial impact from major climate risks.  
(Continued to next page) 
(Continued from previous page) 
Indicators and Targets  
Risk Management  
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Category Corporate Management Strategies   Actions  2020 Enforcement Report  
    Use the TCFD framework to develop a process for identifying  climate risks  
    Formulate response measures based on the risks opportunities identified  and prioritized  
    Integrate climate risks identification and assessment in the Enterprise Risk  Management (ERM) process  
    Set management metrics related to climate change  
    Review impact on TSMC operations based on carbon inventory, carbon  footprint, and life cycle analysis  also evaluated Scope 1, 2   3 risks and  corresponding mitigation strategies  
    Set climate change management targets and review progress    performance  
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
    Held TCFD workshops and, through interdepartmental discussions, jointly identified,  prioritized, and assessed the financial impact of climate risks opportunities.   
    Reported the assessment results of the climate risk opportunities and relevant action  plans to the ESG Committee Chair.  
    For more details, please refer to the 6.3 Risk Management section in the 2020 TSMC  Annual Report . 
    Established the following as climate change performance indicators: GHG emissions  per unit product, environmental footprint per unit product, amount of renewable  energy purchased, total amount of electricity saved, improved production efficiency,  and days of production interruption due to climate disasters. For more details,  please refer to the Climate Change and Energy Management Strategies, Goals, and  Outcomes section of this report. 
    In accordance with carbon inventory results, the risks of Scope 1 emissions were  reduced effectively because of continuous implementation of carbon reduction actions   the risk of Scope 2 indirect GHG emissions due to electricity consumption and the risk of  Scope 3 due to supplier indirect emissions continue to increase. For more details, please  refer to the Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Inventory section of this report. 
    Set climate change and energy management goals for 2030 in accordance with climate  change performance indicators  senior executives performed regular reviews on  implementation performance. For more details, please refer to the section entitled  Climate Change and Energy Management Strategies, Goals, and Achievements and  GHG Reduction Best Practices sections of this report. 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  
Energy Management  in Manufacturing 
Water  Management 
Waste  Management 
Greenhouse Gas  Emissions 
Employee Health    Safety 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
TC-SC-320a.2 
TC-SC-320a.1 
TC-SC-150a.1 Quantitative 
TC-SC-130a.1 Quantitative 
TC-SC-110a.2 Discussion and Analysis 
TC-SC-140a.1 Quantitative 
TC-SC-110a.1 Quantitative 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
   Gross global Scope 1 emissions  
   Total emissions from perfluorinated  compounds 
   Discussion of long-term and short-term  strategy or plan to manage Scope 1  emissions, emissions reduction targets,  and an analysis of performance against  those targets 
   Total energy consumed 
   Percentage grid electricity 
   Percentage renewable 
   Total water withdrawn 
   Total water consumed, percentage of each  in regions with High or Extremely High  Baseline Water Stress 
   Amount of hazardous waste from  manufacturing, percentage recycled 
   Description of efforts to assess, monitor,  and reduce exposure of employees to  human health hazards 
   Total amount of monetary losses as a  result of legal proceedings associated with  employee safety and health violations 
Accounting Metric Category Report Contents or Explanation 
Discussion and Analysis 
Quantitative 
   2,450,354 metric tons CO2-e 
   664,974 metric tons CO2-e 
   Please see Climate Change and Energy Management: Low-carbon  Manufacturing  
   60,908,400 Gigajoules 
   95% of energy consumed was supplied from grid electricity 
   7.3% of energy consumed was renewable energy      
   77,257 thousand m 3  from regions with High or Extremely High  Baseline Water Stress: 4 % 
   72,255 thousand m 3  from regions with High or Extremely High  Baseline Water Stress: 1% 
   440,714 metric tons  98% recycled 
   The amount of hazardous waste includes 142,314 metric tons of  in-house recycled hazardous waste 
   Please see Occupational Safety and Health 
   Company has no significant monetary losses as a result of legal  proceedings associated with employee safety and health violations 
Please see Water Management: Water Resource Risk Management  
Please see Waste Management 
Please see Climate Change and Energy Management  
(Continued on next page) 
 Continued from previous page  
Recruiting   Managing  a Global   Skilled  Workforce 
Product Lifecycle  Management 
Materials  Sourcing TC-SC-440a.1 
Intellectual Property  Protection    Competitive Behavior 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Accounting Metric Category Report Contents or Explanation Topic Code 
TC-SC-410a.1 
TC-SC-410a.2 
TC-SC-330a.1 
TC-SC-520a.1 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
   Percentage of employees that are  (1) foreign nationals and (2) located  offshore 
   Percentage of products by revenue  that contain IEC 62474-declarable  substances 
   Processor energy efficiency at a system- level for: (1) servers, (2) desktops, and (3)  laptops 
   Description of the management  of risks associated with the use  of critical materials 
   Total monetary losses as a result of  legal proceedings associated with anti- competitive behavior regulations Quantitative 
   Please see Talent Attraction and Retention Quantitative 
   0.16 % Quantitative 
Quantitative 
   Please see Supplier Sustainability Management:  Sustainability Risk Management Discussion and Analysis 
   TSMC is working with customers to innovate with new  generations of chips and create more energy efficient  electronic products. Please see Sustainable Products by  TSMC Facilitates Global Energy Conservation  
   Please see 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 6.3.3 Operational  Risks  Risks Associated with Litigious and Non-litigious  Matters 
Independent Third Party Assurance Statement 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
Contact Information 
Backend Fabs 
Advanced Backend Fab 2  1-1, Nan-Ke North Rd., Southern Taiwan Science Park,  Tainan 741-014, Taiwan, R.O.C.    
Tel:  886-6-5636688  Fax:  886-6-5051262 
R D Center   Fab 12B  168, Park Ave. 2, Hsinchu Science Park,   Hsinchu 300-091, Taiwan, R.O.C. Tel:  886-3-5636688  Fax:  886-3-6687827 
Fab 6  1, Nan-Ke North Rd., Southern Taiwan Science Park,  Tainan 741-014, Taiwan, R.O.C.    
Fab 3  9, Creation Rd. 1, Hsinchu Science Park,  Hsinchu 300-092, Taiwan, R.O.C. Tel:  886-3-5636688  Fax:  886-3-5781548 
Tel:  886-6-5056688  Fax:  886-6-5052057 
Fab 8  25, Li-Hsin Rd., Hsinchu Science Park,   Hsinchu 300-094, Taiwan, R.O.C.   Tel:  886-3-5636688  Fax:  886-3-5662051 
Fab 2, Fab 5 121, Park Ave. 3, Hsinchu Science Park,  Hsinchu 300-096, Taiwan, R.O.C.   Tel:  886-3-5636688  Fax:  886-3-5781546 
Taiwan Facilities Subsidiary 
Corporate Headquarters   Fab 12A               8, Li-Hsin Rd. 6, Hsinchu Science Park,   Hsinchu 300-096, Taiwan, R.O.C.   Tel:  886-3-5636688  Fax:  886-3-5637000 
Advanced Backend Fab 1   6, Creation Rd. 2, Hsinchu Science Park,   Hsinchu 300-093, Taiwan, R.O.C.   Tel:  886-3-5636688  Fax:  886-3-5773628 
Wafer Fabs 
Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
Fab 15B  1, Xinke Rd., Central Taiwan Science Park,    Taichung 407-728, Taiwan, R.O.C.  Tel:  886-4-27026688  Fax:  886-4-24630372 
Fab 18  8, Beiyuan Rd. 2, Southern Taiwan Science Park,  Tainan 745-093, Taiwan, R.O.C.   Tel:  886-6-5056688  Fax:  886-6-5050363 
Fab 14B 17, Nan-Ke 9th Rd., Southern Taiwan Science Park,  Tainan 741-014, Taiwan, R.O.C.   Tel:  886-6-5056688  Fax:  886-6-5055217 
Fab 14A 1-1, Nan-Ke North Rd., Southern Taiwan Science Park,  Tainan 741-014, Taiwan, R.O.C.   Tel:  886-6-5056688  Fax:  886-6-5051262 
Fab 15A 1, Keya Rd. 6, Central Taiwan Science Park,    Taichung 428-303, Taiwan, R.O.C.  Tel:  886-4-27026688  Fax:  886-4-25607548 
Advanced Backend Fab 3  101, Longyuan 6th Rd., Longtan Dist.,   Taoyuan City 325-002, Taiwan, R.O.C  Tel:  886-3-5636688  Fax:  886-3-4804250 
Advanced Backend Fab 5  5, Keya W. Rd., Central Taiwan Science Park,   Taichung 428-303, Taiwan, R.O.C.  Tel:  886-4-27026688  Fax:  886-4-25609631 
A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 
TSMC Korea Limited 15F, AnnJay Tower, 208, Teheran-ro,   Gangnam-gu, Seoul 06220, Korea  Tel:  82-2-20511688   
TSMC China Company Limited 4000, Wen Xiang Road, Songjiang,   Shanghai, China (Postcode: 201616)  Tel:  86-21-57768000  Fax:  86-21-57762525  
TSMC Europe B.V. World Trade Center, Zuidplein 60, 1077 XV   Amsterdam, The Netherlands  Tel:  31-20-3059900   
TSMC North America 2851 Junction Avenue,   San Jose, CA 95134, U.S.A Tel:  1-408-3828000  Fax:  1-408-3828008 
TSMC Japan Limited 21F, Queen's Tower C, 2-3-5, Minatomirai,    Nishi-ku Yokohama, Kanagawa, 220-6221, Japan  Tel:  81-45-6820670   
TSMC Nanjing Company Limited  16, Zifeng Road, Pukou Economic Development Zone,  Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China (Postcode: 211806)   Tel:  86-25-57668000  Fax:  86-25-57712395 
VisEra Technologies Company Limited 12, Dusing Rd. 1, Hsinchu Science Park,   Hsinchu 300-096, Taiwan, R.O.C.  Tel:  886-3-666-8788  Fax: 886-3-666-2858 
WaferTech L.L.C.  5509 N.W. Parker Street Camas,    WA 98607-9299 U.S.A.  Tel:  1-360-8173000  Fax:  1-360-8173009 
TSMC Arizona Corporation 2510 W. Dunlap Avenue,    600, Phoenix, AZ 85021, U.S.A.  Tel:  1-602-567-1688   
TSMC Design Technology Japan, Inc.  10F, Minatomirai Grand Central Tower, 4-6-2, Minatomirai,  Nishi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 220-0012, Japan  Tel:  81-45-6644500   
TSMC Design Technology Canada Inc.  535 Legget Dr., Suite 600, Kanata,   ON K2K 3B8, Canada  Tel:  613-576-1990  Fax:  613-576-1999 
TSMC Technology, Inc  2851 Junction Avenue,   San Jose, CA 95134, U.S.A. Tel:  1-408-3828000   