2020-21   Corporate  Responsibility  Report 
Table of Contents 
Introduction  2 
Table of Contents  2 
Letter From Our CEO  3 
A Year in Review  4 
COVID-19 Response  5 
Corporate Responsibility   6  
and Our 2030 RISE Strategy  
Awards and Recognitions  10 
Our Business  11 
Company Profile  12 
Our People and Culture  19 
Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy  22 
Stakeholder Engagement  26 
Respecting Human Rights  27 
Supply Chain Responsibility  30 
Responsible  33 
Responsible: Our Approach  34 
Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness  35 
Combating Forced and Bonded Labor  37 
Responsible Minerals Sourcing  39 
Responsible Mobility  41 
Revolutionizing Health  42   
and Safety Through Technology 
Inclusive  43 
Inclusive: Our Approach  44 
Inclusive Workforce  45 
Introduction  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Social Equity  50 
Building a Diverse Technology Industry  51 
Supplier Diversity and Inclusion  52 
Making Technology Fully Inclusive  54  
and Expanding Digital Readiness 
Sustainable  56 
Sustainable: Our Approach  57 
Environmental Management  58 
Climate and Energy  60 
Product Energy Efficiency  63 
Water Stewardship  64 
Waste and Circular Economy Solutions  66 
Sustainable Manufacturing  68   
and Chemistry Initiatives 
Achieving Carbon Neutral Computing  69 
Enabling  71 
Enabling: Our Approach  72 
Employees Changing the World  73 
Intel Foundation: Catalyzing Impact  75 
Collaborating for Technology Impact  76 
Appendix  77 
About this Report  78 
Independent Limited Assurance Statement  79 
Performance Data Summary  80 
SASB and TCFD Framework Alignment  81 
UN Sustainable Development Goals  84 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures  85 
Intel 2020 Water Inventory by Location and Source  86 
2020 Environmental, Health, and Safety Violations  88 
Top 100 Production and Service  89  
Suppliers by Spends 
Our Commitment to Transparency  
This report provides a comprehensive summary of our   
approach to corporate responsibility and our performance  for 2020-21. This report has been prepared in accordance  with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards:   Comprehensive option. Our GRI Content Index is provided  on our Report Builder website. We also use other recognized  frameworks to inform the content of this report, including  the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, UN Sustainable  Development Goals, the Task Force on Climate-Related  Financial Disclosures, the Sustainability Accounting   Standards Board Standards (SASB), and the International  Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC).1 In 2020, we continued   to advance our integrated reporting strategy to include  environmental, social, and governance information in   our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10K and 2021 Proxy  Statement, available on our Investor Relations website.   For additional information on Intel s approach to corpo- rate responsibility, supporting documents and data, past  reports, and to customize a report with the sections of   your choice, visit our Corporate Responsibility and   Report Builder websites. 
1  In 2020, SASB and IIRC announced their intention to merge   
into a unified organization, the Value Reporting Foundation,   in mid-2021. 
2 intel.com responsibility 
That potential impact has never been clearer to me than during this past year. We ve seen unprecedented  challenges, including a global pandemic that brought untold suffering with loss of life and livelihoods,  heightened social injustice and inequities, and continued impact of climate change. As a technologist,  I have been inspired to see the collective response to these challenges and the critical role technology  has played, from the development of vaccines and new therapeutic treatments in record time, to the  rapid deployment of online education and learning resources. 
From my early days at Intel to today, I have been extremely proud of our company s long-standing   leadership in corporate responsibility and sustainability. This focus has positioned us to effectively   create both long-term value and respond to the growing importance of environmental, social and   governance issues to our investors, customers, employees, and other stakeholders.   
In May 2020, we outlined our 2030 RISE strategy and corporate responsibility goals for the next   decade to accelerate the integration of responsible, inclusive, and sustainable practices and innovative  approaches in our operations and supply chain, across the technology industry, and beyond. All of this  enabled through our technology and the passion and expertise of our employees. 
While we are just one year into our work on these ambitious goals, I am proud of the progress and   accomplishments detailed throughout this report. Most notably: 
  In our own operations and supply chain, we made progress toward our 2030 goals of 100%   
  In collaboration with the industry, we launched the Alliance for Global Inclusion, a new coalition  
Introduction  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
renewable energy and net positive water use, increasing renewable energy from 71% to 82% and   conserving 7.1 billion gallons of water in 2020. For the fourth consecutive year, we received a   Leadership score in CDP s Supplier Engagement Rating for our work to engage our suppliers   to expand their climate and water disclosure. 
focused on creating a shared set of diversity and inclusion metrics in four critical areas: leadership   representation, inclusive language, inclusive product development, and STEM readiness in under- served communities.  
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Letter From Our CEO 
I am honored to return to Intel as CEO, and both humbled by the   challenges and excited by the limitless opportunities made possible   by the magic of technology.  
Digital technology is transforming the world at an accelerated pace, driven by  what I call the four  superpowers : cloud, connectivity fueled by 5G, artificial  intelligence (AI), and the intelligent edge. They are superpowers because  each expands the impact of the others and together, they are reshaping every  aspect of our lives and work. This goes straight to Intel s purpose and my own  passion: creating world-changing technology that touches and improves the  lives of every person on the planet. 
  For larger global impact, we worked with over 170 customers, partners, governments,  
As we look ahead, we will build on this momentum to drive progress and take us to even  greater heights in 2021 and in the years ahead, including: 
  Advancing diversity, equity, accessibility, and inclusion in our global workforce, and  
  Accelerating change across the industry, working with ecosystem partners to significantly  
  Evolving the Pandemic Response Technology Initiative to become the Intel RISE   
We will help solve the world s greatest challenges through deep technical collaboration   with our customers, helping them transform their industries with radical innovation and  leadership products, and achieve their own corporate responsibility goals. Along with   customers, partners, governments, and NGOs, we also will support smart policies that   accelerate the creation of safe and secure digital infrastructure, advanced manufacturing,  and an inclusive and skilled future workforce.  
I believe deeply in this company and the wonderful future we will create together. Our   employees  technology expertise and passion to have a positive impact in the world every  day are what inspire my confidence that we can achieve our objectives for the next decade. 
Pat Gelsinger, Chief Executive Officer  Intel Corporation 
academia, and NGOs on 230 projects around the globe through Intel s Pandemic Response  Technology Initiative to accelerate access to technology at the point of patient care and  speed scientific research, ensure access to online learning for students, and aid in   economic recovery. 
advocate for public policies and laws that combat discrimination and inequities impacting  our employees and our communities, as well as take actions to advance our 2030 goals,  including doubling the number of women and underrepresented minorities in senior   leadership and increasing representation of women in technical roles to 40%.  
expand global impact through responsible minerals sourcing practices, and collaborating  to transform safety in transportation through Intel s Mobileye business and Responsibility-  Sensitive Safety (RSS) model and integration into standards development.  
Technology Initiative (IRTI) to create a broader platform for action to make a greater  impact in the world. This expanded initiative will provide a disciplined framework through  which Intel employees can work with customers and partners to solve problems and  advance our RISE strategy and progress toward the UN Sustainable Development Goals  through accelerated application of technology to global challenges in the areas of health  and safety, inclusion and accessibility, and climate and sustainability.  
3 intel.com responsibility 
Unleashing a new era of innovation  and technology leadership   
In March 2021, our new CEO Pat   Gelsinger shared his vision  IDM  2.0,  a major evolution of Intel s  integrated device manufacturing  (IDM) model. He announced sig- nificant manufacturing expansion  plans, starting with an estimated   20 billion investment to build two  new factories (or  fabs ) in Arizona.  He also announced Intel s plans to  become a major provider of foundry  capacity in the US and Europe to  serve customers globally. 
Introduction  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
A Year in Review 
Upping our commitment   on climate change 
In support of our 2030 commitment  to 100% renewable energy, we   increased our use of green power  from 71% to 82% and conserved  161 million kWh of energy in 2020.  We also set a new aspirational   global challenge to work with our  customers and other stakeholders  to achieve carbon neutral computing  by 2030. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Accelerating the   COVID-19 response 
The COVID-19 pandemic has  changed the lives of our employees,  our customers, and our commu- nities. We invested  50 million to  accelerate access to technology  needed to combat the pandemic,  including more than 230 projects  through our Pandemic Response  Technology Initiative (PRTI) and   programs to directly support our  local communities. 
Progressing toward a new   net positive water use goal 
We conserved 7.1 billion gallons   of water internally and invested   in water restoration projects that   restored more than 1.3 billion  gallons during 2020. These both  advanced us toward our goal of   net positive water use, resulting in  90% of fresh water usage returned   or restored in 2020. 
In May 2020, we laid out our goals for the next decade. Since then, we have made progress on those goals from taking   a stand on social equity and driving product innovation to increasing our commitment on climate change. 
Taking a stand on racism  and social equity   
In response to acts of racism and  violence in 2020, our leadership  publicly affirmed that inaction is   not an option for Intel, catalyzing  action across Intel in support of   our 2030 diversity and inclusion  goals and funding new external  social equity partnerships and   policy engagements. 
Launching the Alliance   for Global Inclusion  
We convened others across our  industry and beyond to form   the Alliance for Global Inclusion,   focused on creating an inclusion   index and making progress in   four critical areas: leadership   representation, inclusive   language, inclusive product   development, and STEM readiness   in underserved communities.  
Innovating for an increasingly   data-driven world 
We began shipping 10nm-based 3rd  Gen Intel  Xeon  Scalable processors  (previously referred to as Ice Lake),  which are optimized to enable the  next generation of cloud, network,  and Internet of Things infrastructure  with features that will help with   everything from securing cloud   data to advancing drug discoveries.  We also launched our new 11th   Gen Intel Core processors, which   are advancing remote working   and distance learning. 
Leading supply chain   responsibility and impact 
As a result of our efforts to combat  risks of forced and bonded labor   in our global supply chain, our   suppliers have returned over    23 million in fees to more than  20,000 workers since 2014. In   2020, we also continued to expand  our work on responsible minerals   sourcing, and achieved  1.2 billion   in annual spending with diverse-  owned suppliers. 
Advancing responsible mobility   and automotive safety 
In an effort to save and improve   lives, Intel s Mobileye business   continued to advance automotive  safety through its Responsibility-   Sensitive Safety (RSS) model,   leveraging our innovation and   expertise to work across the   industry and with policymakers   to make these technologies   broadly accessible and affordable. 
Contributing 910,000  employee volunteer hours 
Although the pandemic limited  in-person volunteering activities,   our employees around the world   still stepped up to donate close   to 1 million volunteer hours in   2020, including virtual activities   and technology access projects   that directly supported members   of our local communities.  
4 intel.com responsibility 
COVID-19   Response 
We are extremely proud of   how our team has responded   to the COVID-19 pandemic   by showing resilience and   innovating in real time, and we  have continued to demonstrate  the tremendous value of our  worldwide manufacturing   network to customers and   partners around the world.   
Introduction  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
We have learned vital lessons about the critical role technology   can and has played in so many areas during the pandemic from  healthcare and telehealth, to remote learning and innovative   solutions to help businesses reopen safely. Most importantly, we  have learned to operate with more empathy, agility, and velocity.   We look at our products not just for what we know they can do,   but for what they might be able to do in a changed world.   
Caring for Our Employees  
In response to the pandemic, we made changes and adopted mea- sures to continue providing a safe environment for our employees  and the operation of our manufacturing sites. We increased safety  procedures and special recognition for employees continuing to work  on site in our factories and labs, and provided additional benefits   to aid and support all employees. We launched a telecommuting  reimbursement program to help employees required to work from  home improve their workspaces and provided additional support   and flexibility for employees caring for children and others.   
Delivering for Our Customers  
We have worked to ensure compliance with government restrictions  in each of our locations while continuing to operate and enable the  support our customers need to provide vital services, tools, and  infrastructure to millions. We have also collaborated closely with   our suppliers to help protect their employees  health and safety,  provided a business continuity playbook and supplier assistance   to mitigate supply disruptions, and clarified our continuing   expectations for labor practices and human rights in line with   the Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct.   
Supporting Our Communities and Using   Our Technology to Help  
In 2020, we launched our Pandemic Response Technology Initiative  (PRTI), a  50 million commitment to support essential workers,   hard-hit businesses, and students of all ages with Intel-funded   technology projects. Through the PRTI, Intel has partnered with   more than 170 organizations on over 230 projects in multiple   sectors, including technology, healthcare, industrial, retail,   transportation, and academia. This work has accelerated access  to technology at the point of patient care, advanced scientific   research, and ensured access to online learning for students.   
Intel also joined the XPRIZE Pandemic Alliance, a global coalition  working to accelerate solutions for COVID-19 and future pandemics.   In addition, we granted free access to Intel s intellectual property  portfolio for COVID-19 researchers and scientists, and co-founded  the Open COVID Pledge. In 2021, we expanded the scope of the PRTI  to include additional program areas, and renamed it the Intel  RISE   Technology Initiative (IRTI). For more, read this blog and view a global  map of PRTI projects. 
Intel, the Intel Foundation, and Intel subsidiaries donated  10 million   to support local communities, including matching of employee and Intel  retiree donations. In addition, Intel announced the donation of 1 million  pieces of personal protective equipment masks, gloves, and other  gear to support healthcare workers. We have also been inspired by  our employees  outpouring of support, including virtual volunteerism,  donations, and innovative technology projects designed to help   communities through this crisis.  
Pandemic Leadership Team 
Intel activated its Pandemic Leadership Team (PLT) in January 2020.   Established more than 16 years ago in response to other global health  crises such as SARS and H1N1, the PLT includes medical and safety   experts who work to safeguard the well-being of employees and collabo- rate with local governments and public health organizations. The PLT   and Intel s management implemented several changes to help prevent  the spread of illness among employees. These included contact tracing   of cases and quarantining of close contacts, reducing on-site staff and   instituting a widespread work-from-home policy, mandating face coverings,  increasing cleaning protocols, changing or delaying how essential tasks are  conducted, halting some on-site services, reconfiguring office seating, adding  travel restrictions, changing on-site food services, building a reopening  playbook with phases tied to community case rates, and activating Intel s  global and site-level emergency operations teams to coordinate responses.  The PLT has continuously monitored and updated our status, policies, and  recommendations as the global situation has evolved, with regular updates  provided to our executive leadership team and Board of Directors. For more  information, see  Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness  in the Responsible  section of this report. 
5 intel.com responsibility 
Corporate Responsibility and Our 2030 RISE Strategy 
Intel s purpose is to create world-changing technology that improves the lives of every person on   earth. Our continuing commitment to corporate responsibility is embedded in our purpose. That   commitment built on a strong foundation of transparency, governance, ethics, and respect for human  rights creates value for Intel and our stakeholders by helping us mitigate risks, reduce costs, build   brand value, and identify new market opportunities to apply our technology to help address society s  most complex issues.   
Through our long-term focus on advancing transparency, setting ambitious goals, and integrating   corporate responsibility across all aspects of our business, we have driven meaningful results and   challenged ourselves to achieve higher levels of performance over time. The Intel Foundation amplifies   the impact of our employees  volunteer hours and contributions to our local communities and catalyzes  action and collaboration with others on social impact initiatives.  
With our 2030 corporate responsibility  RISE  strategy and goals, we aim to create a more responsible,  inclusive, and sustainable world, enabled through our technology and the expertise and passion of   our employees. Our new strategy not only raises the bar for ourselves and our supply chain, but also  increases the scale and global impact of our work through new collaborations with our customers and  a broad range of stakeholders. Our aim is to fully harness the power of technology to solve increasingly  complex and interconnected global challenges over the next decade and beyond. We know that acting  alone, Intel cannot achieve the broad, societal impact we aspire to.   
Our multi-year process to develop our new strategy and goals involved many teams and executives  across the company, incorporated direct feedback from our external stakeholders, and leveraged a   number of external frameworks, including the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Since we announced  our new strategy, we have been inspired by the many ways our employees have driven progress on our  goals in the face of a challenging external environment, and by the positive feedback and increased   interest from stakeholders to work together to accelerate global impact. 
Introduction  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Lead in advancing safety, wellness, and responsible  business practices across our global manufacturing  
operations, our value chain, and beyond 
Responsible 
Through innovation technology and the expertise and passion of our employees we enable positive change within Intel, across our industry, and beyond 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
workforce and industry, and expand opportunities for others  through technology, inclusion, and digital readiness initiatives 
Advance diversity and inclusion across our global   
Responsible 
Intel Operational and Supply Chain Goals 
Technology Industry Initiatives 
Global Challenges 
customers and others to reduce their environmental   
Be a global leader in sustainability and enable our   
impact through our actions and technology 
Sustainable 
Sustainable Enabling 
6 intel.com responsibility 
1  Tier 1 suppliers are companies from which Intel makes direct purchases (approximately 9,000 suppliers in 2020). Tier 1 contracted suppliers are subject to formal agreements with Intel based on the products and services provided  and spends (approximately 1,500 at the beginning of 2020). Tier 2 suppliers are companies from which Intel s tier 1 suppliers make direct purchases. 
2  We recognize diverse suppliers as businesses that are 51% owned and operated by at least one of the following: women  minorities as defined by the country where the business was established  veterans service-disabled  
3 Intel defines zero waste as less than 1%. 
2030 RISE Operational and Supply Chain Goals  
This table outlines our 2030 operational and supply chain goals, including progress made in 2020. These goals are designed to continue to raise the bar for ourselves and to  deliver greater value for our customers by helping them reach their corporate responsibility goals and targets. Click on each heading to learn more.  
Introduction  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
veterans  persons who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender  or persons who are disabled. While Intel recognizes these categories, they may vary by country in accordance with local law.  
2030 Goal Progress in 2020 
Responsible 
Sustainable 
Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness. Ensure that more than 90% of our employees believe  that Intel has a strong safety culture and that 50% participate in our global wellness program. 
Supply Chain Human Rights. Scale our supplier responsibility programs to ensure respect for  human rights across 100% of our tier 1 contracted suppliers and higher risk tier 2 suppliers.1 
Workforce Inclusion.    Double the number of women and underrepresented minorities in senior leadership roles.    Exceed 40% representation of women in technical positions.    Advance accessibility and increase the percentage of employees who self-identify as having   
  Ensure that inclusive leadership practices and accountability are embedded in our culture  
Supplier Diversity. Increase global annual spending with diverse suppliers2 by 100% to reach   2 billion in annual spending by 2030. 
Climate and Energy.    Achieve 100% renewable energy use across our global manufacturing operations.    Conserve 4 billion kWh of energy.    Drive a 10% reduction in our absolute Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions as we grow,   
  Increase product energy efficiency 10x for Intel client and server microprocessors to   
Net Zero Water. Achieve net positive water use by conserving 60 billion gallons of water   and funding external water restoration projects. 
Zero Waste3 Circular Economy. Achieve zero total waste to landfill and implement circular  economy strategies for 60% of our manufacturing waste streams in partnership with our suppliers. 
Community Impact. Deliver 10 million volunteer hours to improve our local communities,  including an increase in skills-based volunteerism. 
a disability to 10% of our workforce. 
globally by creating and adopting an inclusive leader certification program. 
informed by climate science.  
reduce our Scope 3 emissions. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
In 2020, 79% of surveyed employees agreed with our  safety is a value  metrics   and 22% of Intel employees participated in our wellness program. 
We completed initial risk profiling of 100% of our tier 1 contracted suppliers and  completed 50 assessments in 2020. 
During 2020, we continued to strengthen our systems, processes, and programs to  drive diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility throughout our workforce. We set new  milestone targets to accelerate progress toward our senior leadership representation  goals and linked those metrics to our executive and employee compensation for 2021.  At the end of 2020, 25.2% of our technical roles were held by women and 1.4% of our  US workforce self-identified as having a disability.  
We spent  1.2 billion with diverse suppliers in 2020, an increase of 20% over 2019.  To accelerate progress toward our 2030 goal, our supply chain team set additional  milestone targets to spend  500 million with women-owned suppliers outside the US  by 2025 and  800 million annually with minority-owned suppliers globally by 2023,  including  250 million with US Black-owned suppliers. 
Achieved 82% renewable energy use and conserved 161 million kWh of energy. Our  absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions remained roughly flat to the 2019 baseline  through end of 2020. We completed our baseline analysis for our product energy  efficiency goals. 
Conserved 7.1 billion gallons of water in our operations and enabled the restoration  of more than 1.3 billion gallons of water to local watersheds through funding of water  restoration projects.  
Sent 5% of our total waste to landfill. Circular economy practices applied to 63% of  our manufacturing waste streams.   
Delivered 910,000 volunteer hours to our local communities. 
7 intel.com responsibility 
1  Conflict minerals, as defined by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), is a broad term that means tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold (3TG), regardless of whether these minerals finance conflict in the Democratic  
Republic of the Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries. 
Technology Industry Initiatives  
Building on the foundation of our operational and supply chain goals, we will work with the technology ecosystem to accelerate improvements across our industry.   We know that we can go faster and be more effective working together. Click on the headers below for more details on our initiatives and progress. 
Introduction  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Responsible minerals. Expand our efforts beyond conflict  minerals to cover all minerals used in semiconductor  manufacturing and apply the learnings to lead our industry   in creating new sourcing standards.    
Over a dozen years ago, Intel began work to responsibly  source conflict minerals1 and in 2017 we expanded our   efforts to also address cobalt in our supply chain. In 2020, we  took steps to apply our learnings from the past decade and  work with our industry to broaden and accelerate the creation  of sourcing standards for a much wider set of minerals across  additional regions. We continued to evaluate and expand our  work on responsible cobalt sourcing practices, and identified  aluminum, copper, nickel, and silver as the next set of minerals  to target. We also expanded our support of local mining  communities through new NGO partnerships. 
Responsible mobility. Collaborate with our industry   and ecosystem partners to advance the adoption of   safety technology and open standards to reduce traffic  accidents globally. 
Intel s Mobileye business is a global leader in driving assistance  and self-driving solutions. The company s product portfolio  includes computer vision and machine learning-based  sensing, data analysis, localization, mapping, and driving  policy technology for Advanced Driver Assistance Systems  (ADAS) and autonomous driving to advance automotive   safety, including its Responsibility-Sensitive Safety or   RSS  model. In 2020, we took actions to leverage our  innovation and expertise to work across the industry and with  policymakers to make these technologies broadly accessible  and affordable, in an effort to save and improve lives. 
Responsible Inclusive Sustainable 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Inclusion index. Drive full inclusion and accessibility across   the technology industry by creating and implementing a Global  Inclusion Index with common metrics to advance progress. 
Within the technology sector, an average of only 11% of  senior leadership roles are held by women, and women of  color make up only 4% of the computing workforce. One key  gap identified in the Rebooting Representation report from  McKinsey and Pivotal Ventures is the lack of consistent and  comparable definitions and data regarding inclusion at the  industry level. In 2020 we launched a global survey to assess  diversity and inclusion progress at 13 major companies.  In 2021, we launched the Alliance for Global Inclusion, a  coalition focused on creating an inclusion index based on the  survey results and working to collectively advance progress  in four critical areas: leadership representation, inclusive  language, inclusive product development, and STEM   readiness in underserved communities.   
Inclusive pipeline. Expand the inclusive pipeline of talent for  our industry through innovative global education initiatives  and STEM programs for girls and underrepresented groups. 
Building a diverse and inclusive workforce and industry  requires continued collective investments and innovative  approaches to increasing the diversity of the talent pipeline  and expanding access to the education resources needed to  pursue careers in our field. In 2020, we worked with others  on actions and targeted investments at critical intervention  points, including a new  5 million partnership with North  Carolina Central University (NCCU), a historically Black college  or university (HBCU), to create a new tech law and policy  center, and the Million Girls Moonshot, a collaborative effort  to engage adolescent middle school girls from underserved  communities in interactive STEM activities. 
Sustainable manufacturing. Create a collective approach  to reducing emissions for the semiconductor manufacturing  industry and increase the use of technology to reduce climate  impact in global manufacturing. 
In the 1990s, Intel led an initiative to eliminate the use  of Class 1 ozone-depleting substances in semiconductor  manufacturing. Our new 2030 climate goals are informed  by climate science, but due to our (and our industry s) early  emissions reductions and demand growth for semiconductors,  it remains challenging to gain formal approval for a target  under the existing methodology of the Science-Based Targets  Initiative (SBTi). In 2020, we began working with industry  stakeholders to assess the potential for the development  of a sector-specific approach to setting science-based  GHG emissions reduction targets for the semiconductor  manufacturing industry and to increase the use of technology  to reduce climate impact in global manufacturing. The goal  is to expand the number of companies in our sector that set  approved science-based targets. 
Sustainable chemistry. Enable greener and circular   chemistry strategies across the technology industry value  chain by transforming chemical footprint methodology. 
We are working to enable greener chemical strategies across  the life cycle of the technology value chain. In 2020, our team  developed a new methodology that considers factors beyond  the inherent hazard of each chemical. These factors, or impact  categories, include looking at human health, environmental,  climate change, regulatory, and reputational risk. The team also  engaged with a number of industry groups and environmental  experts to gather input on the approach and identify future  collaboration opportunities. We envision this initiative will  enable Intel, our suppliers, customers, and others across our  industry to better assess the full lifecycle impact of each  chemical and enable industry-wide improvements by 2030. 
8 intel.com responsibility 
2030 Global Challenges 
We have identified key areas where we believe we can best leverage our manufacturing expertise, unique position within the technology ecosystem, and the wide range of   technology we enable to bring others together to accelerate action on key global challenges to save and enrich lives. These areas include health and well-being, inclusion   and economic opportunity, and climate change. Click on the headers below for more detail on our approach and progress. 
Introduction  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Revolutionize how technology will improve health   and safety   
We will apply our expertise, resources, and technology   to enable others to harness the power of technology to   improve health, safety, and wellness including in the   areas of healthcare and life sciences, manufacturing,   and transportation.  
In 2020, we accelerated healthcare technology solutions  through the use of artificial intelligence (AI) and Internet  of Things healthcare technologies. We also drove multiple  customer collaborations for COVID-19 response, including  application of technology to improve COVID-19 testing,  projects related to telemedicine and patient monitoring, and  supported researchers with technology and data solutions. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Responsible Inclusive Sustainable 
Make technology fully inclusive and expand   digital readiness  
We will advance inclusion and accessibility for millions of  people who currently do not have the technology skills or  resources needed to access educational, economic, and  community resources in our increasingly digital economy.   
During 2020, we began work to build and scale a number   of programs and collaborations with our customers,  governments, and other stakeholders, including our digital  readiness program AI for Youth, which reached 100,000  individuals in 11 countries. We partnered on a number of  collaborations to expand technology access in underserved  communities, including a partnership with the city of   Houston, Texas. Our product teams also expanded our   work on accessible product design. 
Achieve carbon neutral computing to address   climate change  
While we continue to reduce our own global manufacturing  climate footprint, we will also take actions with others to  collectively expand the technology  handprint  transforming  product energy use and design and applying technology to  reduce computing-related climate impacts across the rest   of the global economy. 
Progress in 2020 included working with our PC manufacturer  customers to create sustainable and energy-efficient PCs   collaborating with our cloud service provider customers on   data center energy use and carbon reduction metrics  and  engaging with industry and policymakers to apply technology  to reduce emissions across high-impact industries, including  the launch of the Digital Climate Alliance. 
9 intel.com responsibility 
Awards and Recognitions 
Third-party ratings and rankings give us valuable feedback on our programs and practices, and help drive continuous improvement over time. Below is a selection of the   corporate responsibility-related awards and recognitions that Intel received in 2020 and in the first quarter of 2021. 
3BL Media. 100 Best Corporate Citizens 
American Association of People with Disabilities   and Disability:IN. Disability Equality Index 
American Indian Science and Engineering Society.   Top 50 Workplaces for Indigenous STEM Professionals 
Bloomberg. Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index 
Brave Blue World. 2020 Lighthouse Award for Water Stewardship 
CDP.  A  Water Security Rating,  A-  Climate Change   Rating, Supplier Engagement Leadership Rating 
Center for Political Accountability. CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate  Political Disclosure and Accountability   Trendsetter Company 
Center for Resource Solutions. Renewable Energy   Markets Asia Award 
Corporate Human Rights Benchmark. ICT Manufacturing Top 10  
Corporate Knights. Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations  
Dow Jones Sustainability Index. North America Index 
EcoAct. Sustainability Reporting Performance of the DOW 30  
Ethisphere Institute. World s Most Ethical Companies 
Fast Company. Best Workplaces for Innovators 
Forbes. World s Best Employers, Best Employers for Women,   America s Best Employers for Diversity, and America s Best   Employers for Veterans 
Forbes. World s Most Valuable Brands  
Fortune. Fortune Blue Ribbon Companies  
Fortune. World s Most Admired Companies  
FTSE Group. FTSE4Good Index 
Introduction  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Gartner. Supply Chain Top 25 
Human Rights Campaign. Corporate Equality Index 
Interbrand. Best Global Brands  
ISS. 1 rating in both Environment   Social QualityScore1  
JUST Capital. Top Companies for the Environment 
JUST Capital and Forbes. JUST 100  
Labrador. US Transparency Awards  
Minority Engineer. Top 50 Employers  
MSCI. World ESG Leaders Index  
NAFE. Top Companies for Executive Women  
Newsweek. America s Most Responsible Companies 
Religious Freedom   Business Foundation. Corporate  Religious Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Index  
RepTrak. Top 10 Most Reputable Companies Worldwide 
Sustainalytics. Member, Global Sustainability   Signatories Index  
US Environmental Protection Agency. Green Power   Partnership National Top 100 
Wall Street Journal. Management Top 250  
Wall Street Journal. Top 100 Most Sustainably   Managed Companies 
Women Engineer Magazine. Top 50 Employers     Reader s Choice 
Working Mother. 100 Best Companies For Working   Moms and Best Companies for Multicultural Women 
1 Score as of end of year 2020. 
10 intel.com responsibility 
Our Business 
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Intel put the Silicon in Silicon Valley, and today our technology remains   
at the core of the most exciting, life-changing innovations on the planet.   
We are an industry leader, creating world-changing technology that   
enables global progress and improves lives. We stand at the brink of several  
technology inflections cloud, mobility fueled by 5G, artificial intelligence (AI)  
and machine learning, and the intelligent edge that together will shape the  
future of technology. Silicon and software drive these inflections, and Intel   
is at the heart of it all with data emerging as a transformational force. We are  
unleashing the potential of data to unlock value for people, business, and  
society on a global scale. With a clear, shared purpose, we are inspired to  
create, innovate, and push the boundaries of technology. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
 77.9B in revenue 
We achieved record revenue in 2020, for the fifth consecutive  year. Our results amid the challenges of the COVID-19   pandemic and an uncertain economy reflect the importance  of our technology and the resilience of our employees  around the world.  
 13.6B invested in research  and development  
Every year we make significant investments in research   and development to improve user experiences and value  through advances in performance, power, cost, connectivity,  security, form factor, and other features with each new   generation of products. 
 100M in additional benefits  
To aid employees during COVID-19, we committed to   invest more than  100 million in additional benefits,   including special recognition for employees working on   site, programs to help employees working from home   improve their workspaces, and increased flexibility in our  leave programs for employees caring for children   and others. 
11 intel.com responsibility 
Company Profile 
The world is changing and driving the need for exponen- tially more computing. First we experienced the PC era,  followed by the mobile and cloud era. We are now   entering the era of distributed intelligence, where   computing is pervasive and so many things in our lives  our homes, our cars, our hospitals, and our cities now  function like computers. This transformation is driven   by four key  superpowers : cloud, mobility fueled by   5G, AI and machine learning, and the intelligent edge.1   Our strategy is to play a larger role in our customers    success by delivering a predictable cadence of   leadership products.    
We achieved record revenue of  77.9 billion in 2020, with  49% from our data-centric businesses, amid the effects  of the COVID-19 pandemic. The dynamic of work and  learn from home resulted in strong demand for notebook  PCs, while demand for desktop PCs weakened. Demand  in our Data Center Group s cloud service providers market  segment grew, while enterprise and government declined  on macroeconomic weakness.   
Our  priorities 
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Be a leader in every  category in which  we compete. 
While we are operating from a position of progress and  financial strength, we have a great deal of work ahead   of us. We are focused on four priorities: be the leader in  every category in which we compete  execute flawlessly  our commitments  passionately innovate with boldness  and speed  and reignite our culture to attract and moti- vate the best engineers and technologists on the planet.  
We are transforming from a CPU to a multi-architecture  xPU company, from silicon to platforms, and from a   traditional integrated device manufacturer (IDM) to   a new, modern IDM. Transforming to a modern IDM   requires greater flexibility to use internal or external  foundry processes. It requires that we continue to   lead advances in silicon technology by leaning into   our expertise and manufacturing scale, while evolving   to engage with the ecosystem in new and different ways.  We will also continue to invest in process technology  development to bring to market the future process nodes  and advanced packaging capabilities that create product  differentiation and customization, while also enabling  manufacturing optionality. 
1  Allocated resources that move, store, and process data closer to the  source or point of service delivery.   
 The sections of this Company Profile derived from our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K speak as of January 22, 2021, unless another date is indicated. 
Execute flawlessly   to our commitments. 
Passionately innovate   with boldness and  speed. 
We are an   industry leader 
and a catalyst for technology innovation and products that  
revolutionize the way we live. We are committed to harnessing  
the breadth and scale of our reach to have a positive effect on  
business, society, and the planet. 
Our purpose 
is to create world-changing  technology that improves  the lives of every person   on earth. 
Reignite our culture   to attract and motivate  the best engineers   and technologists   on the planet. 
Our vision 
is to be the trusted  performance leader that  unleashes the potential  of data. 
12 intel.com responsibility 
PC-Centric Business 
As of December 26, 2020, our business was organized  into data-centric and PC-centric businesses. For more  information, refer to the 2020 Intel Annual Report on  Form 10-K. 
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Data-Centric Businesses 
% Intel Revenue Key Markets and Products 
% Intel Revenue Key Markets and Products 
Includes workload-optimized   platforms and related products   designed for cloud service   providers, enterprise and   government, and communications  service providers market segments. 
Includes high-performance   compute solutions for targeted  verticals and embedded   applications in market   segments such as retail,   industrial, healthcare,   and vision. 
Includes development of computer  vision and machine learning-based  sensing, data analysis, localization,  mapping, and driving policy   technology for ADAS and   autonomous driving. 
Includes memory and storage  products like Intel  Optane   technology and Intel  3D NAND  technology, primarily used in SSDs. 
Includes programmable   semiconductors, primarily FPGAs  and structured ASICs, and related  products for communications,  cloud and enterprise, and   embedded market segments. 
Includes platforms designed for  end-user form factors, focusing on  high-growth segments of 2-in-1,  thin-and-light, commercial and  gaming, and growing adjacencies  such as connectivity and graphics. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Our Competitors 
We face intense competition across our product   portfolio from companies offering platform products,  accelerator products, other accelerator products such   as ASICS, application-specific standard products, and   FPGAs, memory and storage products, connectivity   and networking products, and other semiconductor  products. We also compete with internally developed  semiconductors from OEMs, cloud service providers,  and others, some of whom are customers. For additional  information, refer to the 2020 Intel Annual Report on  Form 10-K.   
Our Customers 
Our portfolio of products and capabilities positions  us well to play a larger role in our customers  success.  We are expanding beyond the CPU to better solve our  customers  problems, and not just deliver parts of the  solution. We sell our products primarily to original  equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design   manufacturers (ODMs), and cloud service providers.   In addition, our customers include other manufacturers  and service providers, such as industrial and communi- cation equipment manufacturers and other cloud service  providers, who buy our products through distributor,  reseller, retail, and OEM channels throughout the   world. Our worldwide reseller sales channel consists   of thousands of indirect customers systems builders  that purchase Intel  processors and other products from  our distributors. For additional information, refer to the  2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
Our three largest  customers accounted for 39% of our 2020 net revenue 
Dell, Inc. 
Lenovo Group Limited 
All others 
Our Products 
We are at the forefront of developing new technologies and products  as building blocks for an increasingly smart and connected world.  These technologies and products are used as integrated solutions  for a broad spectrum of markets. From processing to moving and  storing data, our end-to-end product portfolio offers innovative  solutions that scale from edge computing to the network, the cloud,  and the emerging fields of AI and autonomous driving. Our products,  such as our gaming CPUs, may be sold directly to end consumers, or  they may be further integrated by our customers into end products  such as notebooks and storage servers. Combining some of these  products for example, integrating field-programmable gate arrays  (FPGAs) and memory with Intel  Xeon  processors in a data-center  solution enables incremental synergistic value and performance. 
In 2020, we introduced new products such as 10nm-based   11th Gen Intel  Core  processors, 3rd Gen Intel  Xeon  Scalable   processors (previously referred to as Cooper Lake), Intel  Atom   P5900 processors for wireless base stations, a next-generation   structured ASIC for 5G network acceleration, Intel  Stratix  10 NX   FPGAs, and the Intel  Optane  persistent memory 200 series. The  11th Gen Intel Core processors optimize power efficiency with leading  performance and responsiveness while running at significantly higher  frequencies versus prior generations. We are now shipping the 10nm- based 3rd Gen Intel Xeon Scalable processors (previously referred to  as Ice Lake), which include several architectural, process technology,  and platform innovations for performance, security, and operational   efficiency. We also introduced the Intel  Evo  platform brand for  designs based on 11th Gen Intel Core processors with Intel  Iris  Xe  graphics. Devices with the Intel Evo platform brand are verified,   measured, and tested against specification and key experience   indicators as part of the next edition of our laptop innovation   program, Project Athena.  
intel.com responsibility 
In 2020, we acquired Moovit for  915 million to   accelerate Mobileye s MaaS offering. Moovit is known   for its urban mobility application and brings Mobileye  closer to achieving our plan to become a complete   mobility provider, including robotaxi services. We also  signed an agreement with SK hynix Inc. (SK hynix), to  divest our NAND memory business. This transaction   will allow us to further prioritize our investments in   differentiated technology where we can play a bigger   role in the success of our customers and deliver  attractive returns to our stockholders. 
For more information about our products, read our   2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
Product Responsibility and Impact 
We are committed to product responsibility and strive   to minimize the environmental impact of our products   
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
at all phases in their life cycle: development, production,  use, and ultimate disposal. In addition, we consider   accessibility during product development, and design  products that are accessible to a wider range of users  including people with disabilities. For more information,  see  Product Ecology  and  Product Energy Efficiency   in the Sustainable section of this report and  Making  Technology Fully Inclusive  in the Inclusive section of  this report. We recognize that innovation, growth, and  the continued success of our business and the high- tech industry depend on individuals  trust in their use of  technology and in the responsible, protected collection  and processing of their data. We also do not tolerate our  products being used to violate human rights. For more  detail, see  Respecting Human Rights  later in this section  of the report. 
End-to-End Product Portfolio 
Intel technology is empowering individuals, companies,  and governments to improve lives around the world.   Examples of innovative applications of our technology  and collaborations with our customers and other stake- holders are highlighted in the RISE global challenge  discussions at the end of each section of this report.  
From Sand to Silicon 
The transistor is the engine that powers every Intel processor.  To build a modern computer chip, our engineers place billions  of these tiny switches into an area no larger than a fingernail.  Watch the video to see how Intel builds the world s most   complex devices.  
14 intel.com responsibility 
Release  post  deployment Security  
Cybersecurity and Product Security 
We recognize that massive shifts in how we live, work,  connect, and communicate continue to increase the need  for technologies that people trust, built on a foundation  of security. We prioritize security in two ways: in the   way we work, through our culture and practices aimed at  delivering high performance and protections in every- thing we build  and in what we work on, through our  relentless pursuit of security-driven innovations that   help our customers tackle today s toughest challenges. 
Security Technologies Strategy. To meet the challenges   of computing that spans cloud to edge and devices,   security must be a continual focus. We understand the  complexity that results from the ongoing computing  transformation. We have deep experience in enabling  security, as well as a comprehensive suite of technologies  that help secure entire systems and deliver defense in  depth. We engineer security solutions to meet specific  challenges centered around three key priorities: foun- dational security to help systems come up as expected,  workload protection to improve security of data in use,  and software reliability to build in hardware-based   protections against common software threats.  
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Security validation 
Implementation 
Development  
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Planning and assessment 
Architecture 
Comprehensive Security Practices. Through the Security  Development Lifecycle (SDL), we apply security and privacy  principles at six phases, from planning through release and  post-deployment. SDL covers Intel hardware, firmware,  and software products. In release and post-deployment,  an essential part of our product support is ongoing  security research and mitigations. Through the Intel Bug  Bounty Program, for example, we incentivize security  researchers to report vulnerabilities in Intel products to  help enable a coordinated response. One of the most  important ways we work with the industry for improved  security is through coordinated vulnerability disclosure  (CVD): When a vulnerability is identified, we work with  affected partners to develop and release mitigations.   We also align on disclosure to minimize potential threats  while we work to address the vulnerability.  
Security Research. Continuous improvement is made  through investments in offensive research on the security  of our products. We have a dedicated team of experts  who continually research and test products internally. This  work is scaled through practices that include red teaming  and hackathons. We use what we learn to improve our  products and practices, and we collaborate with world- class industry partners, global security researchers, and  academic institutions to advance security research across  the industry. For more information, visit Product Security  at Intel or read our Intel Product Security 2020 Report.   In addition, our Cyber Security Inside podcast series   provides insights on cybersecurity-related trends to  information security and industry executives.   
Securing Intel s Supply Chain 
Ensuring a secure and transparent supply chain is critical to  supporting our customers in a data-centric world. Supply   chain security assurance is provided through certification   and conformance to relevant industry standards, repeatable  standard operating procedures and continuous quality manage- ment and monitoring practices. Intel assesses security throughout  the various stages of the supplier lifecycle, and security expecta- tions are established in contracts and reinforced through required  
trainings and proactive vulnerability communications and event  impact analyses. Intel offers differentiated supply chain security  capabilities to customers such as: best-in-class security tools to  identify vulnerabilities at scale, embedded counterfeit protec- tions included in supplier contractual terms and conditions,   and industry-leading unit-level traceability capabilities. Our  formal C-SCRM Program executes hundreds of information  security supplier audits annually based on standard industry  cybersecurity standards such as ISO 27001 and provides  automated third-party cyber alerts integrated into event   management processes. Intel also helps advance the supply   chain security conversation and standards development in the  industry by working with governments, organizations, and  
industries. As a long-standing partner of the National Institute   of Standards and Technology (NIST), Intel was the first industry  partner of the NIST National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence  (NCCOE) and has contributed to numerous NIST 800 and 1800  series standards.  
15 intel.com responsibility 
Our Capital 
We believe that our integrated approach to financial matters, cor- porate governance, and corporate responsibility drives increased  accountability, improves decision making, and ultimately creates  long-term value. In line with the International Integrated Reporting  Council s  IR  framework and six capitals concept, we have outlined  how we deploy capital to execute our strategy in ways that reflect our  corporate values, help our customers succeed, and create value for  our stakeholders. Each of our six forms of capital, summarized to the  right, plays a critical role in our long-term value creation. For more  detail, see the 2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
Financial Capital. Our financial capital allocation strategy focuses   on building stockholder value. Our first allocation priority is to   invest in R D and capital spending to strengthen our competitive  position. We then look to invest in companies around the world   that will complement our strategic objectives and stimulate growth   of data-centric opportunities. Our third priority is to return cash   to our stockholders, which we achieve through our dividend and  share repurchase programs. In March 2020, we suspended stock   repurchases due to the COVID-19 pandemic  we resumed repurchases  in 2021 and completed the remaining  2.4 billion of the  20.0 billion  planned repurchases we had announced in October 2019. During  2020, we paid  5.6 billion in dividends and repurchased  14.2 billion  in shares. We have returned 95% of free cash flow to investors over  the past five years. For additional 2020 financial information, see the  2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Intel Capital, our global investment organization, invests in a wide range  of emerging technologies. In May 2020, Intel Capital announced new  investments totaling  132 million in 11 disruptive start-ups working  on breakthrough innovations in AI, autonomous computing, and chip  design. Learn more about Intel Capital. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
We deploy various forms of capital to execute our strategy in a way that seeks to reflect our corporate values, help  
our customers succeed, and create value for our stakeholders. 
Capital Strategy Value 
Financial  Leverage financial capital to invest in ourselves and  grow our capabilities, supplement and strengthen   our capabilities through acquisitions and strategic  investments, and provide returns to stakeholders. 
Intellectual Invest significantly in R D and IP to enable us to  deliver a predictable cadence of leadership prod- ucts to move, store, and process data at scale, and  extend our reach to accelerate our growth. 
Manufacturing Invest timely and at a level sufficient to meet   customer demand for current technologies and   prepare for future technologies as we evolve our   IDM model. 
Human Continue to build a diverse, inclusive, and safe work  environment to attract, develop, and retain the talent  needed to remain at the forefront of innovation. 
Social and   Relationship Build trusted relationships for both Intel and our  stakeholders, including employees, suppliers,   customers, local communities, and governments. 
Natural Continually strive to reduce our environmental foot- print through efficient and responsible use of natural  resources and materials used to create our products. 
Our Capital 
 72.0  77.9 
 34.8  37.8 
 37.1  40.1 
PC-centric  B Data-centric  B 
Operating Income 
GAAP  B Non-GAAP  B 
 23.8  25.3 
Diluted EPS 
GAAP  B Non-GAAP  B The preparation of consolidated financial  statements is in conformity with US  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles  (GAAP). We have included key metrics   that we use to measure our business,  some of which are non-GAAP measures.  See  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  in the  Appendix for a reconciliation of non-GAAP  operating income and non-GAAP EPS to  comparable GAAP measures.  
 4.87  5.30 
We strategically invest financial capital to create long- term value and provide returns to our stakeholders in  the form of dividends and buybacks. 
We develop IP to enable next-generation products,  create synergies across our businesses, expand into  new markets, and establish and support our brands. 
Our manufacturing scope and scale enable us to   provide our customers and consumers with a broad  range of leading-edge products. 
Our talented employees enable the development   of solutions and enhance the intellectual and manu- facturing capital critical to helping our customers win  the technology inflections of the future. 
We collaborate with stakeholders on programs to  empower underserved communities through education  and technology, and on initiatives to advance account- ability and capabilities across our global supply chain,  including accountability for the respect of human rights. 
Our proactive efforts help us mitigate climate and   water impacts, achieve efficiencies, and lower costs,  and position us to respond to the expectations of   our stakeholders. 
16 intel.com responsibility 
2 Source: IFI CLAIMS Patent Services, as of January 14, 2021. 
Intellectual Capital. Every year we make significant  investments in research and development (R D) and we  have intensified our focus areas key to product leader- ship. Our objective is to improve user experiences and  value through advances in performance, power, cost,  connectivity, security, form factor, and other features with  each new generation of products. We are also focused on  reducing our design complexity, reusing IP, and increas- ing ecosystem collaboration to improve our efficiency,  including a significant reduction of design rules for future  process nodes. Successful R D efforts can lead to new  products and technologies, or improvements to existing  ones, which we seek to protect through our intellectual  property (IP) rights. We own and develop significant IP  and related IP rights around the world that support our  products, services, R D, and other activities and as- sets. Our IP portfolio includes patents, copyrights, trade  secrets, trademarks, mask work, and other rights. Intel  ranked  5 in patents granted for 2020 by the US Patents  and Trademark Office, our sixth straight year in the top  10.2 For additional information regarding our IP rights,   see the 2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Manufacturing Capital. We are transforming from a  traditional IDM to a modern IDM by investing to lead  advances in silicon technology, leaning into our expertise  and manufacturing scale, while evolving to engage with  the ecosystem and leveraging our disaggregated design  capabilities. Unlike many other semiconductor compa- nies, we primarily design and manufacture our products  in our own manufacturing facilities and we will continue  to integrate engineering and manufacturing to provide  new products with significant cost advantage. At the same  time, our architectural shift to die disaggregation allows  us to mix and match architectures, IP, process nodes, and  silicon that creates increasing flexibility for our products.   
Our global supply chain supports internal partners across  architecture, product design, technology development,  manufacturing and operations, sales and marketing, and  business units, with the goal of enabling product and   
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
We have 10 manufacturing sites six are wafer fabrication, three are assembly test facilities, and our Costa Rica site added in 2020 is a test-only site.  The map above shows our factory sites and the countries where we have a significant R D and or sales presence as of January 2021. The majority  of our logic wafer manufacturing is conducted in the US. Our NAND memory fabrication facility in Dalian, China is included in the transaction entered  into with SK hynix to divest our NAND memory business. Our Intel  Optane  memory business is expressly excluded from this transaction. The next  generations of Intel Optane technology and SSDs are being developed in New Mexico following the sale of our non-controlling interest in IMFT to  Micron Technology, Inc. (Micron) in 2019. In March 2021, our CEO Pat Gelsinger announced significant manufacturing expansion plans, starting with   an estimated  20 billion investment to build two new factories (or  fabs ) in Arizona.  
process leadership, industry-leading total cost of   ownership, and uninterrupted supply for our customers.   Our supply chain ecosystem comprises thousands of  suppliers globally. Our worldwide site expansion   projects remained on track in 2020 despite disruptions  from the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition to our own  manufacturing capacity, we continue to use third-party   foundries to expand the ways in which we can support   our customers. These third-party solutions complement  our manufacturing and provide additional flexibility.   Our world-class safety standards and supply chain   operations, including our robust risk management and  crisis response model, have to date allowed our world- wide factory and supply chain network to continue to  operate safely and with mostly on-time deliveries in   2020 despite the pandemic.  
Intel Worldwide Headquarters Santa Clara, California 
Oregon Arizona New Mexico Costa Rica Ireland Israel Malaysia Chengdu Vietnam Dalian 
Wafer Fabs Assembly and Test Intel Presence Test Only 
Our manufacturing facilities are primarily used for silicon   wafer manufacturing, assembling, and testing of our   platform and memory products. We operate in a network   of manufacturing facilities integrated as one factory to   provide the most flexible supply capacity, allowing us to   better analyze our production costs and adapt to changes   in capacity needs. Our new process technologies are trans- ferred identically from a central development fab to each  manufacturing facility. After transfer, the network of factories  and the development fab collaborate to continue driving  operational improvements. This enables fast ramp of the  operation, fast learning, and better quality control. 
17 intel.com responsibility 
3  The studies present a snapshot in time and while similar frameworks are  
4 Intel s Impacts on the US Economy, 2019. PwC, 2020. 
utilized across the studies, they reflect methodological differences based  on geographic factors and locally accepted practices.  
Human Capital. We invest in our highly skilled global  workforce and initiatives to attract, develop, and retain  top talent needed to deliver on our corporate purpose  and build transformative products and services that help  our customers succeed in an increasingly data-driven  world. Diversity and inclusion are core to Intel's values  and instrumental in driving innovation and delivering  stronger business growth. To drive accountability, we  continue to set public goals and link a portion of our  executive and employee compensation to diversity and  inclusion metrics. Read more in  Our People and Culture   later in this section. 
Social and Relationship Capital. We are committed to  engaging in corporate responsibility and sustainability  initiatives that support our communities and help us   develop trusted relationships with our stakeholders.   Proactive engagement with our stakeholders and   investments in social impact initiatives, including those  aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals,  advance our position as a leading corporate citizen and  create shared value for Intel, our global supply chain,   and our communities.  
We provide high-skill, high-paying jobs around the   world. Many of these are manufacturing and R D jobs   located in our own domestic and international factories.  We make sizable capital investments and provide lead- ership in public-private partnerships to spur economic  growth and innovation. In addition, we aim to empower  people through education and advance social initiatives  to create career pathways into the technology industry.  We also benefit economies through our R D ecosystem  spending, sourcing activities, consumer spending by our  employees, and tax payments.   
Intel contributes considerable tax revenues to the  governments in which we operate. Our payments are  comprised of corporate income, employment, property,  
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
and other tax payments. Robust compliance programs  and strong governance practices along with a business-  aligned strategy and transparent relationships are the  foundation of our global core tax strategy. For additional  information on our approach to tax policy and transpar- ency, see our Public Policy website. 
In addition to the direct employment Intel s operations  provide, our operational spending, capital investment,  and distribution channel impacts support additional  jobs in the community. In recent years, we have engaged  with third-party organizations to conduct analyses of the  direct, indirect, and induced economic impacts of our  operations inside and outside the US.3 For example, a  2017 study by PwC estimated our Intel Ireland operations  have contributed an average of over  1.1 billion per year  to the Irish economy since we began operations there in  1989, and a 2018 study by the Samuel Neaman Institute  for National Policy Research estimated our Intel Israel  operations contributed  5.2 billion to the Israeli economy  in 2017.  
A 2020 study by PwC on Intel s operations in the   US found each job at Intel supported 13 other jobs   elsewhere in the US economy, and our products   contributed to the growth of productivity through   capital deepening and total factor productivity. Intel s  total impact on the US economy in 2019 was more   than 700,000 jobs, and  102 billion in total direct   and indirect GDP impact. The majority of our impact   is in Arizona, California, New Mexico, and Oregon,   locations where we have substantial operations.4   Read more. 
For more information on our social and relationship   capital, see  Stakeholder Engagement  and  Supply  Chain Responsibility  later in this section. 
We consider numerous indicators in determining the success of our capital  deployment in creating value. The above graphic shows highlights of value  created through 2020. 
5 See  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  in the Appendix.  
Natural Capital. Driving to the lowest environmental  footprint possible helps create efficiencies, lower costs,  and respond to the needs of our stakeholders. We invest  in conservation projects and set company-wide envi- ronmental targets to drive reductions in greenhouse gas  emissions, energy use, water use, and waste generation.  We build energy efficiency into our products to help our  customers lower their own emissions and energy costs,  and we collaborate with policymakers and other stake- holders to use technology to address environmental  challenges. For more information, see the Sustainable  section of this report. 
Volunteer hours 910k 
URMs in U.S.  senior leadership 8% 
kWh savings  155M 
Women in technical  positions 25% 
Women in senior  leadership 19% 
Operating free cash flow5  35.4B  21.1B 
Capital investment  13.3B 10 Manufacturing  sites 
18 intel.com responsibility 
Returned to  stockholders 
R D investment  13.6B 
6 Acquisitions 
Our People and Culture 
We invest significant resources to build a diverse,   inclusive, and safe work environment to attract, develop,  and retain the talent needed to remain at the forefront   of innovation. Our workforce is highly skilled, with   approximately 90% serving in technical roles. 
All employees are responsible for upholding our Intel   Values, the Intel Code of Conduct, and Intel Global  Human Rights Principles, which form the foundation  of our workplace policies and practices. Intel s Human  Resources (HR) organization has primary responsibility  for our workplace and talent development activities, and  HR systems and processes. We set high expectations for  our managers and leaders on their roles in activating our  people strategy. This strategy includes four key areas:   empower talent to be Intel's essential growth lever    evolve our culture and development inspiration lead- ers  amplify our technologists' impact  and be the most  diverse, inclusive, and responsible company on the planet.  Our executive leadership team is held accountable each  quarter to update progress for their organizations in these  areas. Detailed information on our diversity and inclusion  initiatives is available on our Diversity and Inclusion  website and in the Inclusive section of this report. 
2020 Employees by Region 
As of December 26, 2020, we had 110,600 employees worldwide in more  than 50 countries. A list of sites with more than 50 employees is included  on the Report Builder website. 
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Europe, Middle East, Africa 47% 
United States 
Asia Pacific 
Latin America and Canada 
Evolving Our Culture 
In 2019, we embarked on a company-wide, multi-year  journey to re-energize our culture to drive better busi- ness outcomes for our customers. We are working to  instill a growth mindset, increase accountability around  shared company goals, implement new operational   protocols, and renew a sense of purpose and value to  create an environment for innovation and growth. 
Our evolution requires new and different thinking,   actions, and integrated systems and processes. We   implemented a new performance management system  in 2019 to directly support our culture evolution and to  increase focus on continuous learning and development  customized to each employee. We have also integrated  our culture expectations into our recognition systems,   innovation processes, leadership progression require- ments, and our bonus metrics.  
Communication and Employee Engagement 
Our success depends on employees understanding how  their work contributes to the company s overall strategy.  We use a variety of channels to facilitate open and direct  communication, including online forums, open forums  with executives, employee experience surveys, and  engagement through more than 35 different employee  resource groups. The semiannual Employee Experience  Survey invites our entire employee population to provide  feedback on Intel culture, management, career oppor- tunities, compensation, and benefits. Employees also  provide direct feedback on their managers and leaders  through the annual Manager Development Feedback   survey, and individual business groups conduct their   own surveys to gather employee input and assess  progress. For example, our Ethics Program Office surveys  employees on the state of ethics at the company, and  our Corporate Services organization measures satisfac- tion with workplace design, cafeterias, and other on-site  employee services. 
Intel Values 
Customer obsessed: We listen, learn, and anticipate   our customers  needs to deliver on their ambitions.   Our customers  success is our success. 
One Intel: We appreciate, respect, and trust each other.  We commit to team over individual success. We are  stronger together. Innovators at heart, we bring fun   to work every day. 
Fearless: We are bold and innovative. We take risks, fail  fast, and learn from mistakes to be better, faster, and  smarter next time. 
Truth and transparency: We are committed to being  open, honest, ethical, and timely with our information  and feedback. We constructively challenge in the spirit   of getting to the best possible result. We act with   uncompromising integrity. 
Inclusion: We strive to build a culture of belonging.   We create a space where everyone can contribute to  their fullest potential and deliver their best work. We  welcome differences, knowing it makes us better. 
Quality: We deliver quality and ensure a safe workplace.  We have the discipline to deliver products and services  that our customers and partners can always rely on. 
ONE INTEL TRUTH   TRANSPARENCY 
INCLUSION FEARLESS 
19 intel.com responsibility 
CUSTOMER OBSESSED 
Employee Experience  Survey Highlights 
1 Responses from the 2020 Employee Experience Survey. 
Growth and Development 
At Intel, curiosity drives us to change the world. Our   employees feed that curiosity by expanding their   skills, strengthening their leadership abilities, and   taking advantage of our extensive training programs   and rotational opportunities. Each year, we deliver a   portfolio of learning resources that help employees   keep their skills up-to-date and on the cutting edge   to focus on continuous learning and development.  
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Recognition and Appreciation 
A top priority for Intel is celebrating the accomplishments   of our employees through everyday thank-yous, as well  as formal recognition programs with cash or stock awards.  Formal programs include the Intel Achievement Awards,  Intel Environmental Excellence Awards, Intel Quality Awards,  Division Recognition Awards, Spontaneous Recognition  Awards, and the Intel Involved Hero Awards.  
 I am treated with dignity and respect at work. 1 
 I am proud to work for Intel. 1 
 Intel provides opportunity for learning and development. 1 
 My work gives me a feeling of personal accomplishment. 1 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
2020 Learning and Development Statistics 
We also provide financial assistance for job-related  degrees and coursework, as well as support to enable  employees to attend industry conferences.  
2020 was a pivotal year in learning and development,  with the shift to 100% virtual training and the addition   of more comprehensive development opportunities for  all employee segments. For managers and executives   in particular, we introduced new programs to inspire   their commitment to Intel s new purpose and values   and equip them to lead through our corporate transfor- mation. Each year, we also create on-the-job development  opportunities through rotation or temporary assignment  programs. Our web-based development tool enables  employees to apply for part-time or temporary assign- ments across the company. In addition, our US sabbatical  program creates growth opportunities through job  coverage assignments that enable employees to work in  different Intel organizations or learn new skills, without  transferring positions. Through temporary assignments,  some employees assisted local communities during the  pandemic. This included an Embedded Engineer Program  that enabled engineers to work with hospital IT staff and  an Intel Capital portfolio company, Medical Informatics  Corp (MIC), to help remotely provision MIC s Sickbay  software to aid in the coronavirus fight.  
Learning hours  delivered2 1,779,383 203,687 1,983,070 
Number of  learners who  received training3 
In 2020, many internal Intel courses were successfully adapted to   self-paced online learning appended with shorter instructor-led   virtual sessions. 
2 Includes a mix of training methods. 
3  Represents all employees who consumed training content in 2020,  
including employees who left Intel. 
126,539 78,477 205,016 
Contingent  
Works Total 
Compensation and Benefits 
We strive to provide rewards including pay, benefits,  and recognition that help meet the varying needs   of our employees. Our total rewards package includes  market-competitive pay, broad-based stock grants and  bonuses, an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, healthcare  and retirement benefits, paid time off and family leave,  parent reintegration, fertility and adoption assistance,  childcare and eldercare support, flexible work schedules,  tuition reimbursement, sabbaticals, and on-site services  (including banking, fitness classes, spas, nursing and  prayer rooms, and more). For many years, we have   also provided programs dedicated to supporting   the education of Intel employees  children, including   tutoring, college coaching, and scholarships. 
We offer comprehensive health benefits, including   medical, dental, and vision insurance plans, sick leave,  and a 365 24 7 Employee Assistance Program for   employees and their families. We also offer market-  competitive retirement plan options, including a 401(k)  retirement match by Intel. Our leave benefits include   paid family leave to care for a seriously ill family member,   extended bereavement leave, expanded bonding leave  and parental reintegration support, and additional   short-term disability coverage.  
To aid and support employees during COVID-19, we  committed to invest more than  100 million in additional  benefits for both employees working on site and those  working from home. We put in place a telecommuting  reimbursement program to help employees required to  work from home improve their workspaces to work safely,  ergonomically, and effectively from their remote loca- tions. In addition, we increased flexibility by creating and  enabling flexible work hours and schedules, adding new  wellness time off hours, and expanding leave programs to  help support employees caring for children and others.  We also pivoted a number of our on-site services  for  example, our fitness programs began offering virtual  classes, workouts, and nutrition consultations. For more  information see  Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness   in the Responsible section of this report. 
20 intel.com responsibility 
Our bonus programs link employees  compensation  directly to Intel s financial and operational   performance goals: 
Quarterly Profit Bonus: A cash profit-sharing bonus   paid to employees four times per year based on   Intel s profitability. 
Annual Performance Bonus: Cash awards based   on Intel s achievement of financial and operational   goals. Since 2008, we have included criteria related to  corporate responsibility metrics such as diversity and  inclusion and environmental performance. For more   details, see  Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy    later in this section of the report. 
Stock Equity Plans: We grant equity in the form of   Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) to approximately 90%   of global employees each year. In addition, through our  Employee Stock Purchase Plan, eligible employees can  purchase stock through payroll deductions at 85% of   fair market value. 
Since 2019, we have achieved gender pay equity globally  and we continue to maintain race ethnicity pay equity in  the US. For more information, see the Inclusive section   of this report.  
Learn more about our comprehensive benefits,   including details of benefits offered by country. 
Engaging Employees in our RISE Strategy 
Intel and the Intel Foundation invest in programs that   create opportunities for employees around the world   to help advance Intel s corporate purpose and our   corporate responsibility goals. Intel s leadership in   corporate responsibility and sustainability helps us   to be an employer of choice and to attract and retain  top talent. In 2020, 87% of employees surveyed agreed  that  Intel is committed to making a positive impact on  the world.   
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Undesired Global Turnover 
Our undesired global turnover rate decreased from 5.0% in 2019 to  4.0% in 2020. Over the past five years, our rate has been at or below  5%, lower than our industry benchmark. These figures include all regular  Intel employees who voluntarily left Intel, but do not include Intel  contract employees, interns, or employees who separated from Intel  due to divestiture, retirement, voluntary separation packages, death, job  elimination, or redeployment.  
In 2020, we expanded learning resources and programs   to actively engage all employees around our RISE   strategy and goals. Our  Learn, Act, Transform  RISE  engagement model helps employees understand Intel s  corporate responsibility issues and priorities, take action  and apply their engineering skills in support of our goals,  and further integrate corporate responsibility practices  into their teams  work objectives. 
Learn: Since 2011, our Sustainability Speaker Series has  provided employees with an active learning forum and  direct access to the company s sustainability leaders to  build and foster a corporate-wide community. In 2020, we  expanded the scope of the original series and renamed it  the RISE Speaker Series to cover a broader range of topics  and opportunities to support Intel s RISE goals. The series  now reaches thousands of employees across nine cam- puses via telepresence. In early 2021, we also launched a  Social Equity Speaker series, based on employee input to  drive new learning and conversations among employees  on social equity and racial justice. 
5.0% 4.1% 3.9% 4.8% 4.0% 
2016 2018 2019 2017 
Act: We created a RISE portal to provide employees   with information on specific actions they can take to   support our RISE goals, including information on our  skills-based volunteer programs.   
Transform: For each of the key areas of RISE, we have  created cross-functional teams of employees to lead  integration strategies for the goals, including a Technology  Impact Steering Committee aimed at deepening   engagement with business units and product teams.   In addition, individual teams and business units have  created customized plans to leverage their unique skills  and expertise in support of our goals.    
Virtual Intern Program 
As part of our continuing goal to build a solid talent  pipeline, Intel transitioned its 2020 intern program to a  virtual platform at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic.  We offered employment in over 30 countries to more  than 5,000 interns with a 40% diverse make-up. The  internship experience included virtual volunteer events,  speed networking, executive coffee chats, tech talks,  and business acumen sessions. Interns from around the  world also had the opportunity to have a virtual lunch  with Intel's CEO. Key results included 98% of US interns  recommending working at Intel and 45% planning to  return to Intel as full-time employees. In addition, Intel's  intern score on Glassdoor was 4.7 5.  
environment where our interns do meaningful  work with real impact, and where they can build  
 Our goal is to create an inclusive learning   
virtual communities across the company.   
 Sandra Rivera, Intel Chief People Officer 
21 intel.com responsibility 
Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy 
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Intel Guidelines   and Policies   on Strategic   Corporate   Responsibility   Issues: 
Intel Values 
Intel Code of Conduct 
Intel Global Human   Rights Principles 
Intel Statement on Combating  Modern Slavery 
Intel RBA Commitment Letter 
Intel EHS Policy 
Intel Climate Change  Policy Statement 
Intel Global Water Policy 
Intel Political Accountability  Guidelines 
Intel Responsible Minerals   Sourcing Policy 
Intel Corporate  Accessibility Policy  
Intel Product Content   Declaration for REACH 
Intel Quality Policy 
Intel s Support of the UN  Sustainable Development  Goals 
Access documents at   intel.com responsibility. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Embedding Corporate Responsibility  
We believe having an integrated strategy and embedding corporate  responsibility across the company is the most effective management  approach to drive continuous improvements in our performance. We  have established cross-functional Management Review Committees  (MRCs) of senior executives who manage corporate responsibility and  sustainability activities across the organization. Our global Corporate  Responsibility Office acts as an internal adviser to drive strategic  alignment and incorporate external stakeholder input into decisions  and processes, for example, development of the 2030 corporate  responsibility strategy and goals. Many Intel business groups have  established teams dedicated to corporate responsibility issues.   Read more about the oversight and management of all areas of   Corporate Responsibility in each section of this report and on the  Report Builder website.  
We have developed corporate guidelines and policies that take   into account the concept of shared value and frameworks such as   the UN Global Compact, International Labour Standards, OECD  Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and the UN Sustainable  Development Goals.  
Linking Compensation to Corporate Responsibility Factors 
Since 2008, we have linked a portion of our executive and employee  compensation to corporate responsibility factors in our Annual   Performance Bonus (APB). In 2020, the formula for determining APB  payouts is based on both absolute and relative financial performance  
Integrated Value Framework 
Risk Management Operations Brand Revenue 
License to Operate and Governance 
  Regulatory risk (e.g., environmental) 
  Community engagement 
  Supply chain 
Embedding corporate responsibility and sustainability into our business and decision-making creates value for Intel in four main ways. It helps us: reduce risk and protect our   license to operate, improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our operations, protect and build brand value, and drive revenue growth through innovation and identification   of market opportunities. 
Cost Savings and Continuous Improvements 
  Operational efficiency 
  Management quality 
  Employee engagement 
and the achievement of certain operational goals. In 2020, we included  environmental, social, and governance (ESG) metrics aligned with our  culture transformation and 2030 RISE goals, including diversity and   inclusion, employee experience, climate change, and water steward- ship. In 2021, we set out new metrics in these same areas. For more  detail, see our 2021 Proxy Statement and the Sustainable and   Inclusive sections of this report.  
Integrated Investor Outreach 
During 2020, our integrated outreach team, led by our Investor   Relations group, Corporate Responsibility office, Human Resources,  and Corporate Secretary s office and including representatives  from other business groups met to discuss a wide range of issues,  including ESG topics with investors representing approximately 40%  of our outstanding shares. We believe that our approach to engaging  openly and year-round with our investors regarding ESG issues drives  increased corporate accountability, improves decision making, and  ultimately creates long-term value. The feedback we receive through  our investor outreach activities is communicated to Intel s Board of   Directors and relevant committees throughout the year. 
In response to investor feedback, we further integrated ESG   information into our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K, 2021 Proxy  Statement, and Investor Relations website  expanded disclosure on  culture, human capital management, and climate risk  and further  aligned our disclosure with external reporting frameworks such as the  Sustainability Accounting Standards Board, Task Force on Climate-  related Financial Disclosures and other reporting frameworks. 
Reputation and Goodwill 
  Differentiation 
  Trusted partner 
  Goodwill 
Growth and Innovation 
  Market expansion 
  Product innovation 
  New customer needs 
22 intel.com responsibility 
Board Oversight of ESG 
We first established formal board oversight for corporate  responsibility in 2003. The Board's Corporate Governance  and Nominating (CGN) Committee has primary responsi- bility for oversight of ESG issues at Intel, with additional  topics also reviewed by other committees (e.g., the  Compensation Committee is responsible for oversight   of human capital issues, and the Audit Committee is  responsible for oversight of our ethics and compliance  program). Management provides formal updates to   the CGN Committee at least twice each year and at   least annually to the full Board on the company's ESG  performance and disclosure. In 2020, this included   review of the annual Corporate Responsibility Report   and updates on issues including environmental sustain- ability, climate risk, human capital, human rights, political  accountability, and investor outreach and feedback. A  number of directors have expertise on key ESG issues and  as part of every Board search, our Board is committed to  actively seeking women and minority candidates, as well  as candidates with diverse backgrounds, experiences, and  skills. Since 2018, Intel has been a member of the Thirty  Percent Coalition, which focuses on strategies to increase  representation of women on corporate boards.  
One of the Board s functions is the oversight of risk   management, which includes ESG-related risks. The  Board receives periodic briefing and informational   sessions by management on the types of risks the   company faces and enterprise risk management.   Management is responsible for identifying risk and   risk controls related to significant business activities   mapping the risks to company strategy  and developing  programs and recommendations to determine the suffi- ciency of risk identification, the balance of potential risk   to potential reward, and appropriate ways to control risk.  
A full description of the Board s responsibilities,   director biographies, compensation practices, and   oversight of risk management are available in our   2021 Proxy Statement.  
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Ethics and Compliance 
Each year, our CEO communicates with all employees   and managers about the importance of ethics and legal  compliance, including regular reminders on our strong  commitment to always act with integrity. This  tone  from the top  reiterated by our senior leadership and  proliferated in our corporate required annual ethics and  compliance training, regular communications throughout  the year, company-wide ethics culture surveys, awareness  trainings, annual ethics and compliance summits, and  educational resources helps to create and maintain   an ethical and legally compliant culture.   
We maintain a robust process for reporting misconduct,  and employees are encouraged to raise questions and  concerns and to ask questions about policies or proce- dures without fear of retaliation. We maintain multiple  channels for employees and others to report concerns,  including reporting anonymously, as permitted by  applicable law around the world. The anonymous  reporting channel consists of a telephone and online  reporting tool managed by an independent third party.  We inform employees, managers, and other stakeholders  about Intel s non-retaliation policy, which prohibits  retaliation against anyone who, in good faith, reports   a concern or participates in an investigation. 
The Board and senior management receive periodic   reports of statistics related to misconduct, as well   as details about key investigations. Our Ethics and   Compliance Business Champions encourage employees   to stay current with their ethics and compliance training,  review verified investigations quarterly with business  
In 2021, for the 10th consecutive  year, Ethisphere Institute named  Intel to its annual list of the World s  
Most Ethical Companies. 
group leaders, and raise employee awareness regarding  how to report concerns. In 2020, the largest categories  of verified cases involved falsification of documents,  conflicts of interest, and compliance items. Consistent  concerns are addressed through senior management  discussions, employee communications, process and  controls improvements, and individual corrective action  measures, where appropriate. 
Each quarter, Intel s Ethics and Compliance Oversight  Committee (ECOC) receives formal reports from various  Intel organizations and reviews risk topics that span   business groups. 
The Intel Code of Conduct 
The Intel Code of Conduct (Code) affirms the principles that  guide the behavior of employees, subsidiaries, members of   our Board of Directors regarding their Intel-related activities,   independent contractors, consultants, suppliers, and others  who do business with Intel. Through the Code, which is avail- able in 14 languages, we seek to promote honest and ethical  conduct, deter wrongdoing, and support compliance with   applicable laws and regulations. We also communicate our  ethical expectations, including compliance with our Code   principles and policies, to our suppliers and third parties.  
All employees are expected to complete annual Code of   Conduct training, through which they also certify adherence   to the Code. In addition, a targeted population completes an  annual disclosure process to monitor compliance with the  Code. Depending on their roles and geographic locations,   certain employees are assigned more in-depth ethics and   compliance training on topics such as anti-corruption, import-  export compliance, insider trading, conflicts of interest, and  antitrust. In 2020, for example, 98% of our global employee  population took Code of Conduct training, 97% received   training on information security awareness, and approximately  94% took training on harassment avoidance. Approximately  44% of our workforce received additional training on other  topics such as anti-corruption and or antitrust. 
23 intel.com responsibility 
1 Source: How historically black colleges transformed America.  
Public Policy and Political Accountability  
Intel works with governments, organizations, and indus- tries around the world to advocate for policies that   encourage new ideas, promote fair commerce, and   protect resources. We also work to educate political   candidates about the implications of public policy   decisions for our business, and in the US provide   financial support to candidates who hold positions   consistent with our business objectives.  
We work to make our priorities and positions on key  issues clear by including information on our Public  Policy website, publicly supporting amicus briefs, or   submitting testimony. In 2020 and early 2021, we   published statements on our public policy blog covering  a range of issues important to our business and industry,  including US federal investment in the domestic semicon- ductor manufacturing industry  regulation that enables the  effective adoption and deployment of AI, 5G, and other  emerging technologies such as autonomous vehicles   diversity and inclusion  climate change  data privacy   tax policy  and healthcare. In 2020, we also launched a  TechEquity Intel portal, a public policy platform that  examines social issues and shares information on   Intel s positions and actions across digital, economic,   educational, health, civic, and environmental equity, as  well as equitable justice.  
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Digital Climate Alliance 
In 2020, together with other technology companies, we created the Digital Climate Alliance to advance discussions   with policymakers on the value and opportunity of the information and communications technology (ICT)  handprint,    or the ways in which technology can be applied to help reduce climate impact. The coalition has been meeting with US  Capitol Hill staff on an ongoing basis to advocate for a variety of policies in US climate legislation and regulation, including   advancing universal 5G, greater availability of grid emissions data to inform consumers in their efforts to go fossil-free,  and advancing the role of ICT in decarbonizing the grid.  
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
We engage with trade associations to help us work collab- oratively with other companies and groups to address key  public policy issues on a range of corporate responsibility  and sustainability issues. Recent examples include:  
  Social equity: Working as a member of the Business  
  Climate change: Collaborating with the Center   
  Responsible Minerals: Partnering with the Responsible  
  Sustainable Corporate Governance: Working with the  
For more information, see  Climate and Energy,     Social Equity,  and  Responsible Minerals.    
Roundtable to advance action on racial and social  justice issues in the US. 
for Climate and Energy Solutions to encourage  climate action.  
Business Alliance (RBA) and other stakeholders to   educate policymakers on the benefits of collective  action on responsible minerals sourcing. Watch the video. 
RBA, Digital Europe, and other stakeholders to improve  the knowledge and understanding of policymakers on  the benefits of common approaches to responsible  business conduct and to align future due diligence  requirements with existing international frameworks. 
Recently, our advocacy and public support of legislation   in line with our commitment to social equity in the US has  included The Justice in Policing Act, US Equality Act, US Hate  Crimes Act, Providing Resources and Organization to Maximize  Opportunities for Training and Education in STEM (PROMOTES)  Act, and the  StopAsianHate campaign. In support of civic   equity, we joined the Civic Alliance and the Business for Voting  Rights campaign.  
To advance our social equity goals and increase inclusion in   the legal and policy fields, we also announced a  5 million  donation over the next five years to North Carolina Central   University (NCCU), a historically Black college or university  (HBCU), to create a new tech law and policy center. According   to the American Bar Association, about 5% of lawyers in the   US are Black as of 2020. Additionally, 80% of Black judges   and 50% of Black lawyers come from HBCUs,1 making these  schools critical to diversifying legal and policy professions   
and ensuring greater opportunity to underrepresented demo- graphics. Intel will provide legal and strategic expertise, faculty  training, summer internships, and Intel mentors to both NCCU  students and faculty members. 
Global Social Equity Policy Principles 
In 2020, we created the Intel Global Social Equity Policy   Principles to guide our work with governments and organiza- tions to build a more equitable world and advance legislation  to combat systemic inequities impacting employees and   communities globally. Included are regulation and policies   in the areas of economic, education, digital, health, justice,   environmental, and civic equity. We also advocate for initiatives  that expand access to technology, including broadband. 
24 intel.com responsibility 
The Intel Political Accountability Guidelines outline our  approach to making political contributions, including   senior management and Board-level review processes  and our commitment to transparency. Decisions on   political contributions, whether from the Intel Political   Action Committee (IPAC) or corporate funds, consider  Intel s business objectives, corporate policies, and the  public policy priorities outlined on our Public Policy   and Corporate Responsibility websites. 
We publish reports on our corporate contributions, IPAC  contributions, and trade association membership dues   on our Report Builder website. 
Direct Corporate Contributions. Intel makes relatively  few direct political contributions using corporate funds,  and has a policy of not making independent political  expenditures or funding electioneering communications. 
Intel Political Action Committee. No corporate funds   are contributed to IPAC other than for administrative   purposes, and all employee participation in IPAC is   voluntary. IPAC s approach targets balanced support   of Democratic and Republican candidates each cycle.  
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Policy on Anti-Corruption 
Intel is committed to conducting business with   integrity and adhering to applicable anti-corruption  laws, including the US Foreign Corrupt Practices   Act, the UK Bribery Act, and local anti-corruption  laws in the locations where we do business. Our  long-standing global anti-corruption program has   robust governance mechanisms to ensure that our   Policy on Anti-Corruption is followed by our employees   and business partners, and that concerns are easily  reported and quickly addressed. The anti-corruption  program also adopted and deploys AI technology in  our monitoring of high-risk activities. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Industry and Trade Associations. We disclose trade  association membership dues and payments to   other tax-exempt organizations such as 501(c)(4)   and 501(c)(6) organizations annually, including the   reported portion of dues used for political purposes   for annual dues over  50,000. 
Lobbying Expenses. Intel files quarterly reports with   the Secretary of the US Senate and the Clerk of the   US House of Representatives that detail our lobbying  activities. These reports can be found in the Senate s  Lobbying Disclosure Act Database. In 2020, our reported  lobbying expenditures totaled  3.6 million, compared to   5.1 million in 2019. 
We regularly evaluate our political spending for   effectiveness and alignment as part of our contributions  process. We recognize that it is impractical and unrealistic  to expect that our company, stockholders, and stakehold- ers will agree with every issue that a politician or trade  association may support, particularly given our strategy   of bipartisan giving.   
We assess recipients  overall voting records related to   our key policy issues and make funding decisions that   we believe in aggregate will have the greatest benefit   for our stockholders and key stakeholders. Decisions   are also made based on states and districts with a  significant Intel presence and leadership on committees  of jurisdiction on important Intel priorities. In response   
2020 Contributions 
Contribution Type Amount 
Corporate contributions, including state  and local candidates, campaigns, and  ballot propositions 
Intel Political Action Committee  contributions  591,000 
to stakeholder feedback, we have further enhanced   our review process by adding reviews of public   statements to our existing reviews of voting records   to better assess alignment with our values. When we  identify some degree of misalignment, we communicate  directly with contribution recipients. In cases of signifi- cant misalignment across our multiple key public   policy issues, we take action to realign future funding  decisions. For example, following the events at the   US Capitol on January 6, 2021, we decided to cease  contributions to members of Congress who voted  against certification of the 2020 presidential election. 
company in the 2020 CPA-Zicklin  
Key Public Policy Issues 
Automotive and   Transportation  
Customs and Trade   Facilitation 
Digital Health 
Diversity and Inclusion 
Environment   and Energy  
More Information:  Public Policy website and our public policy blog. 
Intel was named a "Trendsetter"   
Disclosure and Accountability.  
Index of Corporate Political  
Global Trade  
Immigration  
Intellectual Property  
Security and Trust 
25 intel.com responsibility 
Stakeholder Engagement 
We are committed to operating with transparency and,  through open and direct communication, we work to   develop trusted relationships with all stakeholders,  including employees, customers, suppliers, governments,  and communities. We maintain formal management   systems including neighbor relations managers for   our major manufacturing sites to engage with, listen   to, and learn from our stakeholders and incorporate their  input into our thinking and planning. 
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
1. Identify 
We use a range of methods and inputs to identify priority  topics and emerging issues from our stakeholders. 
  CSR and social media channels 
  ESG investor outreach meetings 
  Results of community advisory panels and surveys 
  Customer data requests and survey data 
  Employee open forums and surveys   Meetings with governments   Human rights impact assessment and ethics  and compliance processes   Research on external standards, trends, and frameworks 
Stakeholder Review: 
Every two years, we we engage a third party to update  our materiality assessment. Our most recent update was  completed in early 2021, building on the previous assess- ment that was used to inform the development of our 2030  strategy and goals. The latest assessment included review  of industry best practices and reports, external reporting  standards (including the Global Reporting Initiative, the  Sustainability Accounting Standards Board, and the  International Integrated Reporting Committee), analysis  of issues identified through stakeholder dialogue during  the year, and completion of interviews with internal and  external stakeholders.  We use this information to inform changes to our strategies, goals, and ongoing engagement and disclosure practices. 3. Take Action 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
IMPACT ON STAKEHOLDER DECISIONS 
In addition to face-to-face meetings, a number of online  channels provide us with valuable, ongoing input on our  performance and strategy. Our corporate responsibility  e-mail account enables stakeholders to share their issues,  concerns, and comments directly with members of our  corporate responsibility team, who respond to hundreds  of messages each year on a wide variety of topics. We  also receive and respond to feedback through our   CSR Intel blog, Exploreintel.com website, Facebook  page, and  WeAreIntel Twitter account.  
We review issues and consider both the potential impact on stakeholder decisions and the impact on Intel s business and  external systems. The issues listed in the matrix below were prioritized from more than 50 issues identified and reviewed  during the process. 
2. Prioritize 
Migrant Worker  Rights Product Quality   Safety 
Climate Migration   Justice 
Anti-Competitive  Behavior 
IMPACT ON INTEL S BUSINESS AND EXTERNAL SYSTEMS (Internal stakeholders) 
Remote Working 
Corporate Responsibility Materiality Matrix 
Product Energy Efficiency Environmental Compliance 
Supply Chain Distruption 
Responsible Product Use 
Human Rights 
Data Privacy   Security 
New Global Legislation 
Ethical AI 
1   Materiality  refers to materiality within the context of our corporate  
Our corporate responsibility materiality1 matrix below  illustrates how we identify, prioritize, and take action   surrounding the topics we believe are of greatest inter- est to our stakeholders regarding Intel s environmental,  social, and economic performance. Additional details   on our stakeholder engagement practices and issues  raised through the year are available on our Report   Builder website. 
responsibility program and priorities and does not refer to concepts of  materiality used in securities or other applicable law.  
Diversity, Inclusion,    Accessibility 
Supply Chain Responsibility 
Climate   Energy 
Global Health Pandemics 
Environmental Social Economic Governance 
Business Ethics 
Employee Retention    Talent Development 
Chemical   Hazardous  Waste Management 
Health   Safety 
Water Stewardship 
Financial    Economic Growth 
26 intel.com responsibility 
Respecting Human Rights 
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Human rights are the fundamental rights, freedoms, and  standards of treatment to which all people are entitled.  Intel s Global Human Rights Principles, adopted in 2009,  formalize our commitment to respecting human rights   embody common principles laid out in multiple frame- works, including the UN Guiding Principles on Business  and Human Rights  and apply to all employees and   contingent workers, including those in our subsidiaries. 
We are committed to maintaining and improving systems  and processes to avoid human rights violations related to  our own operations, supply chain, and products. We also  look for opportunities to apply our technology to support  the advancement of human rights.  
Intel has established an integrated approach to managing  human rights across our business, including board-level  oversight and the involvement of senior-level Manage- ment Review Committees. For example, our annual   Statement on Combating Modern Slavery is discussed  with our Board and signed by one of our directors. Our  Corporate Responsibility Office manages our human  rights program, and responsibility is also embedded  across the company through a cross-Intel Human Rights  Steering Committee and close partnerships with global  teams that develop and implement policies and actions  related to our human rights risks.  
We also meet throughout the year with external stake- holders and experts on human rights to continue   to inform and evolve our human rights policies and  oversight processes. In 2020, we discussed human rights  issues with our investors and met with local community  stakeholders through our Community Advisory Panels   at our manufacturing sites. We also are a signatory to   the UN Global Compact, a member of the Global Business  Initiative on Human Rights, and a participant in the Centre  for Sport and Human Rights and the Partnership on AI.  
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
In 2020, we continued to participate in the assessment  of the ICT manufacturing sector by the Corporate Human  Rights Benchmark, again scoring in the top 10 of ICT  companies assessed. In February 2020, Intel announced   a collaboration with the Council of Europe aimed at   promoting respect for human rights in the field of digital  technologies, including policy discussions and work  streams with the private sector in 2020 and beyond.  
Our Approach to Managing Human Rights 
Our Operations  
Our goal is to cultivate a safe, diverse, and respectful  work environment where employees can thrive and   innovate. See  Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness    in the Responsible section and  Inclusive Workforce   in the Inclusive section of this report for more detail.  In 2020, we also began development of a new, holistic  human rights training course for employees to help raise  their awareness about Intel s initiatives and ways they can   take action in their roles to advance our human rights  strategy. It will be deployed in 2021 and supplemented  with additional resources to provide real-time updates   on important topics.  
The Intel Environmental, Health, and Safety Policy   guides us to  provide a safe and injury-free workplace   through our core safety programs and injury-reduction  initiatives not only for our employees, but also for  contractors working at our sites. In addition, our recently  updated Global Water Policy reinforces our respect for the  human right to water by helping us responsibly meet our  operational needs as well as those of our communities. 
Our Supply Chain  
As a founding member of the Responsible Business  Alliance (RBA), we hold our suppliers accountable to the  same expectations we have for ourselves. We apply the  same high expectations and human rights standards for  all our employees and contingent workers, regardless  of where they work. We have invested significant time  and resources in collaborating with others to influence  system-level, industry-wide improvements to protect and  empower workers in the global electronics supply chain  and to reduce community impacts. We are also working  to combat forced and bonded labor in our supply chain,  including prohibiting holding worker passports and  charging worker fees to obtain employment. Since 2014,  we have facilitated the return of over  23 million in fees  to suppliers' workers. 
For more information, see  Supply Chain Responsibility    later in this section. 
27 intel.com responsibility 
Our Products  
We have long been committed to respecting privacy   and security related to the development and use of   our products. We practice privacy and security by   design and our Security Development Lifecycle (SDL)  processes define actions, deliverables, and checkpoints  aimed at integrating security and privacy protections   into our products and services. Intel does not participate  in any efforts to decrease security in technology and  does not design back doors for access into our products.  The Intel Privacy Notice outlines our general approach  to managing personal data. In addition, we advocate for  global policies and standards to protect data privacy   and security. 
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
The matrix is a high-level mapping of salient human rights risks within our value chain due to external environmental factors. See Intel s Code of Conduct, Global Human Rights Principles, 2030 Corporate Responsibility Strategy  and Goals, and other Corporate Responsibility policies for more information on Intel s approach on various human rights and sustainability issues. For more detail, see our Salient Human Rights Risk mapping on the Report  Builder website.  
Salient Risks 
Salient Human  Rights Risks 
Right to Humanitarian and  Treatment in Armed Conflict 
Right to Life and   Security of Person 
Right to Peaceful Assembly   and Association  
Right to Privacy 
Freedom from Slavery   and of Movement 
Freedom of Expression 
Right to Decent Work,   Rest, and Leisure 
Non-discrimination 
Right to a Clean, Healthy, and  Sustainable Environment 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Intel s own global workforce,  particularly those undertaking  
manufacturing activities  
Intel Employees 
As the range of products and services we offer broadens  and changes, we evaluate potential concerns about how  technology products may be used to infringe on human  rights. The challenges range from product misuse and  limits on freedom of expression, to health and safety  concerns that may arise from new technologies. In 2019,  we updated the Intel Global Human Rights Principles to  clarify language regarding our expectations on product  responsibility and human rights. Most Intel products are  general-purpose computing products that can be incor- porated into systems and applications and that are sold  to end users by distributors, system manufacturers, and  others, and not directly by Intel. While we do not always  know nor can we control what products our customers  create or the applications end users may develop, we do  not support or tolerate our products being used  
sourcing, manufacturing in high-risk  
Labor conditions in raw materials  
markets, and contract workers 
Supply Chain Workers 
Rights holders and relevant potential impacts 
Product design considerations and  unintended use misuse of Intel s  
End Users Data Subjects 
products and services 
to violate human rights. When we become aware of a  concern that Intel products are being used by a business  partner in connection with abuses of human rights, we  will restrict or cease business with that party until and  unless we have high confidence that Intel s products  are not being used to violate human rights. In 2020, our  teams developed new due diligence measures and review  processes to assess and track actions that enable us to  achieve high confidence with customers. We leveraged  existing procedures and methods used in our anti-  corruption and supply chain risk-based assessment,   mitigation, and remedy processes. As a result, in 2020,   we restricted certain sales based on the Intel Global  Human Rights Principles that would have otherwise   been considered lawful. 
sponsorship partners, and contribution  
Risks related to third parties,  
to broader societal changes 
Community Society 
28 intel.com responsibility 
Human Rights Impact Assessments   
In 2016, we engaged a third party to conduct  a human rights impact assessment (HRIA)   to review our processes and validate our  human rights risks. The HRIA confirmed   that we were addressing our most salient  human rights risks, and reaffirmed our need   to assess potential risks associated with  emerging technologies. In 2018, we built   on the results of that assessment and   conducted an additional internal Artificial   Intelligence and Autonomous Driving HRIA,  including assessment of potential risks   related to product misuse, algorithmic   bias, algorithmic transparency, privacy   infringement, limits on freedom of expres- sion, and health and safety. In 2019, an  internal multi-disciplinary team continued  development of new internal resources   and processes to advance responsible AI  practices and ensure that AI lives up to its  potential as a positive transformative force  for the global economy, health, public safety,  and industries such as transportation, agri- culture, and healthcare that touch billions   of people. In 2020 and early 2021, we   completed an updated third-party HRIA,  involving multiple internal teams and  
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
interviews with external stakeholders. The  new assessment resulted in the update of  our salient human rights risks, including the  addition of potential impacts in the areas of  product responsibility and responsible AI.  
2021 Human Rights Priorities 
  Continue to assess and strengthen the  
  Engage in additional stakeholder and  
  Significantly expand our impact in   
  Continue our work to combat forced and  
Intel Global Human Rights Principles,  policies, due diligence processes, product  responsibility governance, and employee  training to continuously improve and   leverage best practices.  
industry dialogues regarding potential  human rights issues related to emerging  technologies, including responsible AI. 
responsible minerals and accelerate   the creation of new sourcing standards.  For more details, see  Responsible   Minerals Sourcing  in the Responsible  section of this report.   
bonded labor in the first and second tiers  of our supply chain. 
Responsible AI 
At Intel we believe artificial intelligence (AI) has the power to reshape computing  and enrich the lives of people around the world. As leaders in the development of  AI technologies, we are confident in the positive economic and social benefits that  AI can create. However, we also know that AI can present new challenges, including  unintended use cases and ethical concerns related to ethics and human rights in its  development and deployment at scale.  
Intel is committed to helping AI live up to not only its commercial potential, but   also its promise as a positive and transformative force for the global economy,  health, public safety, individual and community livelihoods, and industries that  touch billions of people. We can also be a role model in our industry by ensuring  that our AI development work is consistent with the Intel Global Human Rights   Principles and that these principles guide our efforts to build a thriving AI business.  
We have put in place new governance policies and processes to guide Intel s AI  product development and business practices in the face of the ethical issues that  may arise with certain AI applications. This includes the establishment in 2020 of  Ethical Principles for AI Development, put into practice through an Ethical AI impact  assessment process comprised of resources, tools, and oversight to help project  teams engage in meaningful inquiry of risks and mitigation strategies throughout  the product lifecycle. We also set up a new cross-Intel Responsible AI Advisory  Council to continue to guide and iterate on this process and provide oversight. This  multi-pillar framework helps address potential issues such as maintaining integrity  and protecting privacy while collecting and using data to train AI systems, reducing  the risk of harmful bias in AI systems, and building trust in machine learning appli- cations by helping people who interact with these technologies better understand  them. Intel has identified and integrated six areas of ethical inquiry into our product  development and project approval processes related to the design and development  of AI capabilities: human rights, human oversight, explainable use of AI, security,  safety and reliability, personal privacy, and equity and inclusion.  
We also integrated ethical AI considerations and best practices into our AI for   Youth program and we discuss the emerging role of AI in society in our   Intel on AI podcast series. 
29 intel.com responsibility 
1   Tier 1 suppliers are companies from which Intel makes direct purchases.  
Supply Chain Responsibility 
Our global supply chain strategy is to drive a resilient,  diverse, and responsible supply chain that enables the  products our customers need to create technology   solutions that unleash the potential of data. Ensuring   the highest standards of safety, quality, technology,   availability, and sustainability is integral to the success   of that strategy. Through leadership and collaboration  with our suppliers, stakeholders, consortia, and fellow  travelers, we are accelerating responsible standards   and accountability across industries. 
More than 9,000 tier 11 suppliers in 89 countries provide  direct materials for our production processes, intellectual  property, tools and machines for our factories, logistics  and packaging services, software, office materials, and  travel services for Intel. We also rely on others to manu- facture, assemble, and test some of our components and  products. A list of our Top 100 Production and Service    Suppliers by Spends is included in the Appendix.  
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Among Intel s over 9,000 tier 1 suppliers, we identify approximately 400   critical  suppliers that we directly engage through our capability-building  programs. These suppliers represent more than 78% of our spends.  Beyond this, we engage with critical tier 2 suppliers through our programs  on forced and bonded labor, responsible minerals, and supplier diversity.  Tier 2 suppliers are companies from which Intel s tier 1 suppliers make  direct purchases.  
2020 Suppliers by region 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Europe, Middle East, Africa 
Asia Pacific 
We continue to collaborate extensively with supply  chain-related organizations including the Responsible  Business Alliance (RBA) and its Mineral and Labor   Initiatives, the Semiconductor Industry Association,   and SEMI to help set electronics industry-wide   standards, develop audit processes, conduct training,   address third-party anti-corruption issues, and more.  These engagements are an important part of the   foundation of many of our programs. 
We expect our suppliers and their suppliers to comply  with the Intel Code of Conduct and the RBA Code of  Conduct (RBA Code). The RBA Code describes industry  environmental, social, and ethical standards, and is   consistent with the Intel Global Human Rights Principles,  the Intel Statement on Combating Modern Slavery, and  the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.  Through our leadership role in the RBA, we drove multiple  recommendations to strengthen and clarify the RBA Code  of Conduct 7.0 for the triennial update that was released in  January 2021. For more, read our RBA Commitment Letter.  
We also expect and enable our suppliers to develop their  own corporate responsibility strategies, policies, and  processes  set goals and report on their performance   engage with and audit their own suppliers  and develop,  manage, and regularly test their business continuity plans  (BCPs). In January 2020, we activated our supplier BCP  in response to COVID-19, which included mobilizing our  Supply Chain Command Center and up-to-twice-daily  meetings of Intel leadership to review emerging issues  and plan updates. Read more about our supply chain  assurance strategy. 
Our supplier development, monitoring, and enforcement  efforts are integrated across our commodity teams. This  integration allows us to scale our coverage, support  supplier progress, and influence suppliers that may be  
reluctant to meet our requirements. We communicate  our expectations in our supplier contracts and request-  for-proposal documents, on our supplier website, at  meetings and training events, and in annual letters  to suppliers.  
We hold ourselves accountable to meet or exceed the  same standards that we set for our suppliers, and audit  ourselves to the same protocols. Every year we complete  the RBA Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) and pub- lish the results on our corporate website. We follow the  RBA Validated Assessment Program to conduct audits  of our finished goods factories. In 2020, we conducted  an RBA Validated Assessment Process (VAP) audit of our  facilities in Chengdu, China. The auditors did not identify  any findings. In 2021, we plan to have an RBA audit of  our facility in Kulim, Malaysia.  
Strengthening Supplier Capabilities  
We continue to work with suppliers to strengthen their  capabilities as our ecosystem evolves and sustainability  challenges grow. For nearly a decade, we have worked   to help less mature and evolving suppliers build criti- cal sustainability and corporate responsibility acumen,  including a focus on compliance with the RBA and our  Code of Conduct expectations and requirements.  
We have delivered a broad range of no-cost support   options for suppliers, including online resources,   interactive training sessions, and connection to   external resources such as the RBA and other NGO   training and conferences.  
Safety Programs. We set high safety training and perfor- mance expectations during our contracting process and  orientation for new suppliers. To strengthen the safety  performance of all suppliers, we validate that suppliers  have robust safety management systems and employee  safety training programs in place and evaluate supplier  
30 intel.com responsibility 
2  We recognize diverse suppliers as businesses that are 51% owned and operated by at least one of the following: women  minorities as defined by the country where the business was established  veterans service-disabled  
veterans  persons who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender  or persons who are disabled. While Intel recognizes these categories, they may vary by country in accordance with local law.  
safety performance for compliance with the American  National Standards Institute (ANSI) standards, OSHA   regulations, and Intel s minimum safety requirements.   In 2020, we continued to develop these programs by   educating and enabling our suppliers to enhance their  safety management systems and training programs. In  addition, Intel worked with 46 suppliers to close 159   occupational health and safety audit findings and   improve worker conditions in their factories. 
Beyond our core capability-building offerings, we have  long engaged with supply chain sustainability consultants  to offer suppliers training and programs focused on   topics like work-hours management, occupational health  and safety, environmental issues, and prevention of  forced and bonded labor.   
Supplier Diversity and Inclusion 
Accelerating our commitment to a diverse and inclusive  supply chain, we have set a new goal for 2030 within   our RISE framework to double annual spending with  diverse suppliers2 to  2 billion. For more details, see   Supplier Diversity and Inclusion  in the Inclusive   section of this report. 
Advancing Supplier Leadership   and Accountability 
We have established several programs to advance   our supplier leadership and accountability, as well   as ensure the latest information is made available  through education and collaboration.  
Supplier Program to Accelerate Responsibility   and Commitment (SPARC). This collaborative and   proactive initiative is designed to help our tier 1 critical  suppliers build internal capacity around corporate   responsibility through rigorous annual commitments   to compliance, transparency, and capability-building.  
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Total Audits Conducted 
Applying our risk-based approach, we continue to use the RBA process as the industry standard for our validated audits for manufacturing suppliers.  In addition, we apply the risk-based criteria to complete targeted assessments of our non-manufacturing suppliers. Our sustainability criteria have  also been embedded into our supplier quality assessment process to further extend our reach into the supply chain. For priority and major findings  by category and sub-category, visit the Report Builder. In certain circumstances, the same facility may be audited multiple times in a calendar year. We  treat each individual audit of a single facility as a unique audit in the above table. Despite challenges due to COVID-19, in 2020, over 126 audits were  conducted across 70 suppliers, although we removed sustainability elements within the Intel Quality Audits in 2020. Audits that were planned in 2020  but not executed due to COVID-19 restrictions and still deemed necessary are included in our 2021 plan. Cumulatively, 596 supplier sites had received  audits by the end of 2020. 
3 Previous years  figures are updated to reflect the most current information as new audit data becomes available. 
The number of suppliers required to participate in   SPARC has increased over the past seven years as we  have broadened our scope to include additional com- modities and requirements. This increase represents  suppliers selected using our risk-based approach and  those providing critical materials and services to Intel.  Participating suppliers represented over 78% of Intel s  managed supply chain cash payments in 2020. We con- tinue to raise expectations for our suppliers and expand  requirements to encompass a broader set of focus areas.  SPARC performance is integrated into our quality audit  and Supplier Continuous Quality Improvement (SCQI)  award programs. In 2020, we rolled out an additional   expectation for SCQI award program suppliers: They  must work on a project that either helps Intel work   toward its own RISE environmental program objectives   or furthers their own corporate responsibility efforts.  
Supplier Report Card (SRC). We have a regular review  and scoring process for our SRC to grade suppliers  for product availability, cost, quality, sustainability  (ethics, financial sustainability, supplier diversity,  
Type of Audit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
RBA VAP Audits 62 66 108 112 88 
Intel RBA-Based Target Audits 61 52 54 42 38 
Intel Quality Audits with Sustainability Element 34 52 59 53   
Total Audits Conducted3 157 170 221 207 126 
and environmental and human rights performance),  technology, and customer satisfaction. These processes  allow for executive-level dialogue on past and future  performance, and remind suppliers of our expectations. 
Assessments and Audits. Supplier assessments and  audits cover more than 300 environmental, safety, and  human rights factors, and help us determine a suppli- er s risk profile. The audits, conducted by a mix of third  parties and Intel personnel, follow the RBA VAP and help  us identify where immediate action is needed and where  longer term, corrective  targeted action plans  should be  put in place. In 2020, 53% of the combined RBA audits  were follow-up or closure audits to verify whether the  findings from a previous audit had been addressed. Cor- porate social responsibility criteria are also incorporated  into Intel Quality Assessment audits to achieve broader  reach. We strive to audit 100% of high-risk supplier sites  within a two-year cycle. We have instituted a process of  unannounced audits to follow up on credible reports of  non-compliance, but we did not have a need to conduct  any such audits in 2020. 
31 intel.com responsibility 
A Risk-Based Approach   to Supplier Assessments 
New Supplier Assessment: A short survey is sent to new  suppliers to determine whether a facility is of potential   high risk. We work with suppliers during the on-boarding  process to remedy any issues identified.  
Self-Assessment: Critical and high-risk suppliers4 complete  a questionnaire to determine a facility s potential gaps to  the RBA Code. In 2020, we assessed 195 supplier facilities  based on this risk assessment and past performance, a 7%  decrease from 2019. We have reduced how often we assess  established lower risk suppliers and commodities, and also  launched a program to enable our more mature suppliers   to begin to self-manage their programs and report to us.   As part of our work toward our 2030 goals, in 2020, we   piloted a new human rights self-assessment with 46   suppliers that we have either never or not recently assessed.  The suppliers involved in the new self-assessment were  required to provide evidence, which we reviewed to gain a  more accurate assessment of risk and enable us to assign  improvement deliverables as needed.   
Audit: Higher risk suppliers must undergo either an on-site  audit by qualified third-party auditors who use the RBA VAP,  or a qualified Intel auditor. The latter audits are specialized  according to risk and compliance concerns for a particular  supplier or facility. Lower risk suppliers,5 as determined   by the self-assessment, may also be audited at our   determination. What we learn from audits helps inform   our supplier engagement and capability-building programs. 
4   Critical suppliers  represent a subset of all tier 1 suppliers with  
5   Lower risk suppliers  refers to suppliers deemed below   
Our Business  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
which we have significant business relationships and spends.    High er risk suppliers  refers to suppliers deemed above   average risk, based on data and supplier performance. 
average risk, based on data and supplier performance.   
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Targeted Action Plans. When a supplier does not make  sufficient progress in addressing audit findings or has  particularly egregious issues, we work with them to   quickly develop and implement a strong corrective  action plan to address the issues and concerns. Supplier  progress is reviewed quarterly until we have verified that  all key issues have been closed, and that processes have  been put in place to prevent recurrence. If satisfactory  progress is not made, we may take additional action, such  as not awarding new business ( conditional use  status)  until issues are resolved or when necessary ending  the supplier relationship. While complete closure of  certain issues can take several years, we work to close  egregious issues within 30 days.  
We help suppliers with targeted action plans make   progress in multiple ways. Our actions may include   conducting additional reviews, such as unannounced   audits, and increasing the frequency of contact between  Intel executives and supplier senior management.   
Recognizing and Rewarding Performance 
We provide regular feedback to suppliers on their   overall progress and achievements, and integrate   corporate responsibility considerations into our Supplier  Continuous Quality Improvement (SCQI) Program. This  program grants SCQI, Preferred Quality Supplier (PQS),  and or Supplier Achievement awards to suppliers that  have demonstrated outstanding performance. In addi- tion, we recognize suppliers for distinction in supplier  diversity and manufacturing safety programs, including   a new distinction for response to COVID-19 in 2020.   For more information and a list of recently recognized  suppliers, visit our SCQI award page and  Top 100   Production and Service Suppliers by Spends  in the   Appendix of this report.  
Supplier Environmental Impact 
By partnering with our suppliers to decrease their waste  generated, water usage, and greenhouse gas emissions,  we reduce our own environmental impact, lower supply  
chain risk, and can decrease costs. We also partner with  our tier 1 chemical and gas suppliers on green chemistry  initiatives. Our procurement teams work with our logistics  and packaging suppliers to drive changes in the materials  we use to ship products.  
Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Water Use 
We decrease the greenhouse gas emissions related to our  transportation and logistics network by optimizing pack- aging to reduce the quantity and weight of shipments,  and by increasing local sourcing. Intel is at the forefront  of standardizing transportation CO2 reporting within the  industry through collaboration with organizations such   as the Global Logistics Emissions Council.  
In 2020, we asked approximately 110 tier 1 suppliers   that have higher environmental impacts to submit data  on their own carbon and or water footprints through   the Supply Chain Climate Change Questionnaire. Of   those suppliers, 98% submitted the questionnaire,   and 92% of them made their responses public, giving  both Intel and other stakeholders information about   the environmental performance of our supply chain.   Intel was the only CDP Supply Chain Program member  requesting the disclosure for 24% of these suppliers.  Using information provided in our suppliers  CDP   Climate Change Questionnaire helps us ensure that   we are focusing on the largest climate change impacts. 
In 2020, Intel also asked suppliers who had been   reporting for more than one year to set structured   climate targets, and 97% did so. We also sent the CDP  water questionnaire to 53 suppliers that are located in  water-stressed regions. We achieved a 100% response  rate, with 97% of the 53 suppliers publicly sharing their  responses. As a result of our efforts, we were ranked   in the top 7% of participating companies, attaining a  Leadership score in CDP s Supplier Engagement   Rating for the fourth consecutive year. 
For more information, see the Sustainable section   of this report. 
32 intel.com responsibility 
Responsible 
Responsible  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
We are building on our long history as a leader in corporate citizenship to further  
advance safety, wellness, and responsible business practices across our global  
manufacturing operations, our value chain, and beyond. This includes our strong  
focus on employee health, safety, and wellness and our work with our suppliers  
and other stakeholders to reduce risks of forced and bonded labor and to scale  
responsible minerals sourcing practices. We are also collaborating with others to  
revolutionize how technology can improve health and safety through strategic  
healthcare, manufacturing, and transportation technology initiatives. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
10 employees recognized for  safety achievements 
In 2020, 10 employees were celebrated through the   Intel Safety Always-Safety Star Program for their work   to advance safety culture at Intel from implementing   safety-related artificial intelligence (AI) and sensing   technology to deploying new contractor safety programs.   
 23M in fees remediated  
To prevent forced and bonded labor, we set expectations with  our suppliers that workers should not have to pay for their  employment. As a result, we have facilitated the return of  over  23 million in fees to suppliers  workers since 2014. 
70M safer vehicles   
Mobileye technology and our Responsibility-Sensitive   Safety (RSS) model help keep more than 70 million   vehicles and their drivers and passengers safer   on the road through technology. 
33 intel.com responsibility 
Responsible: Our Approach 
Responsible  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
1  Conflict minerals, as defined by the US Securities and Exchange  
Commission (SEC), is a broad term that means tin, tantalum, tungsten,  and gold (3TG), regardless of whether these minerals finance conflict in  the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries. 
Integrating and advancing responsible business practices   in our global operations and supply chain help us to  reduce risks and advance respect for human rights. We  have long been known for our strong safety culture,  particularly in our manufacturing operations. Through our  2030 goals, we are taking actions to maintain and deepen  our focus on maintaining and building a robust safety cul- ture as our business continues to change and grow, and  to expand the global impact of our wellness programs. 
Over the past decade, we have directly engaged with  our suppliers to ensure compliance with our corporate  responsibility expectations and build capacity to address  risks of forced and bonded labor and other human rights  issues. Our 2030 goals significantly expand the number   of suppliers covered by our engagement activities to  deepen accountability for human rights throughout our  global supply chain. We are also leading technology   industry initiatives to further advance responsible   practices in minerals sourcing and responsible mobility.  
In addition, we are applying our expertise, resources,  and technology to further enable others to harness  the power of technology to improve health, safety, and  well-being. This includes working with the healthcare  industry to accelerate cures for diseases and improve  healthcare access and affordability, applying technology  to build smart and safer workplaces and factories and  reduce injuries, and expanding the use of technology in  transportation to advance safety and transform personal  mobility and access. 
2030 RISE:  Responsible Goals,  Initiatives, and Global Challenges 
GLOBAL CHALLENGE:  Revolutionize health and safety through technology. 
TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY INITIATIVES: 
Responsible Minerals. Expand our efforts beyond conflict  minerals1 to cover all minerals used in semiconductor  manufacturing and apply the learnings to lead our industry  in creating new sourcing standards. 
Responsible Mobility. Collaborate with our industry   and ecosystem partners to advance the adoption of   technology neutral safety standards to reduce traffic   accidents globally. 
OPERATIONAL AND SUPPLY CHAIN GOALS: 
Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness. Ensure that more  than 90% of our employees believe that Intel has a strong  safety culture, and 50% participate in our global corporate  wellness program. 
Supply Chain Human Rights. Scale our supplier   responsibility programs to ensure respect for human   rights across 100% of our tier 1 contracted suppliers   and higher risk tier 2 suppliers. 
34 intel.com responsibility 
Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness 
We continue to invest in health, safety, and wellness   programs to help employees enjoy a better quality of   life and contribute to Intel s success. Throughout our   response to COVID-19, our priority has been to protect  our essential workers who have worked on site since   the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as our   employees working from home.  
Our commitment in the Intel Environmental, Health,  and Safety Policy is to provide a safe and injury-free  workplace not only for our employees, but also for  contractors working at our sites. Since 2001, we have  maintained a company-wide certification to the interna- tionally recognized ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 standards  to ensure that our manufacturing sites maintain a com- prehensive, fully integrated environmental, health, and  safety (EHS) management system. In 2020, independent  third-party virtual audits were conducted to maintain   this certification. For information on our EHS assurance  program, see  Environmental Management  in the   Sustainable section of this report. 
As Intel continues to expand manufacturing operations,  we are committed to our  copy exactly  philosophy   for implementing world-class EHS programs. We set   high safety training and performance expectations   with our suppliers during our contracting process,   including contractor orientation for new suppliers. For  more information, see  Supply Chain Responsibility    in the Our Business section of this report. 
Health and safety training creates awareness and enables  our employees to better understand their safety respon- sibilities. Our training system covers information needed  for specific jobs (such as electrical safety, ergonomics,  control of hazardous materials, and chemical safety), and  
Responsible  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
incorporates innovative learning methodologies. During  COVID-19, we enabled access to all EHS courses via   mobile phones so that employees could complete   training with greater flexibility. Globally, 33,200   individuals completed one or more EHS courses,   for a total of 250,000 EHS training hours delivered   in 2020.  
EHS training is available in different languages and   takes the form of web-based courses, instructor-led  courses, or on-the-job training. In 2020, we deployed   a PC game designed to increase ergonomics awareness  for employees working from home, as well as a VR version  of our newly revised Office Ergonomics Course. We also  updated our office ergonomics software, which aims   to reduce ergonomic-related injuries by encouraging  employees to take micro-breaks, complete posture   and workstation assessments, perform desk exercises,  and more.  
As we adapted to new working environments during   the COVID-19 pandemic we also modified how we   ensure the safety of our employees. We provided a reim- bursement program to enable employees working from  home to improve their workspaces and add ergonomic  equipment. We also created virtual access to ergonomic   assessments and to our occupational health resources.  Early reporting is critical for ergonomic injuries and   applies to both home and office environments, as it  increases the chance of employees getting better more  quickly and requiring less medical care over time. We   supported raising employee awareness on reporting,  ergonomics, and situational safety using multi-media   approaches and manager guidance. As a result, report- ing of injuries primarily cumulative trauma disorders  (CTDs) increased 10% across Intel from 2019 to 2020. 
1  Source Bureau of Labor Statistics. 2019 indicators are available at  https:  www.bls.gov web osh summ1 00.htm. Note that the rates for  2019 are exactly the same as reported for 2018. 
2 Days away begins the day after the accident. 
RATE PER 100 EMPLOYEES 
Recordable and Days Away Injury Rates 
Rate based on 100 employees working full time for one year. Data as of  March 2021. Certain historical figures have been updated based on new  reported cases received. 
Intel ended 2020 with an Occupational Safety and   Health Administration (OSHA) recordable rate of   0.75, compared to the most recently published US   semiconductor industry average recordable rate of   0.9.1 Our days away case rate2 was 0.16, compared to   the semiconductor industry average of 0.4.1 Ergonomic-  related or CTDs remained the most prevalent type of   injury experienced at Intel in 2020, followed by strains  sprains. We had zero fatalities for employees or   contract workers working on site in 2020. There were   24 high-consequence injuries during 2020 with 50%   CTD injuries and 25% strain sprain injuries. Learnings  have been integrated into our 2021 ergonomics   program plans with a focus on early intervention. 
2016 2018 2019 2017 
Days Away Rate Recordable Rate 
0.07 0.12 0.14 0.16 0.14 
0.68 0.69 0.75 0.72 
intel.com responsibility 
The Intel  Vitality program offered in previous years to  our employees in the US, United Kingdom, and Vietnam  focuses on four pillars of wellness: mindset, nutrition,  movement, and recovery. In 2020, the wellness program  offerings transitioned to 100% virtual, enabling us to  extend the program to all of our employees, including  those working from home during the pandemic. In 2020,  47,482 employees participated in the virtual wellness  services, with a 96.8% satisfaction rate. We also extended  employee access to Headspace, a mindfulness application.  In 2020, 13,000 employees used Headspace an average  of 3.6 sessions per week, meditating a total of 3.6 million  minutes. In early 2021, we also added 12 more wellness  paid time-off hours for employees in each half of the year. 
Intel s mental wellness strategy is designed to raise  awareness of mental or behavioral health, cultivate   an accepting culture so employees feel safe, and remove  barriers to make it easier for our employees and their  family members to seek care. In response to the pandemic  and other events in 2020, we encouraged utilization of  existing mental health resources, including the Intel   Employee Assistance Program, which provides confidential  counseling and work-life services to employees and their  immediate family members. In connection with World  Mental Health Day in October 2020, we launched a global  
Responsible  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Recognizing Safety Achievement 
The Intel Safety Always-Safety Star Program recognized  10 individuals for outstanding safety accomplishments  in 2020. The winners were chosen from 250 nominations  globally. Winning accomplishments in 2020 included  using AI and sensing technology to promote the   use of handrails, developing custom tools and   
equipment to reduce ergonomic risk during equipment  maintenance, and deploying new programs to ensure   the safety of contractors.  
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
mental wellness initiative featuring a new employee web- site, nine global webinars, manager videos, a sleep app,  and an employee feedback survey. Additional mental  wellness events and benefits are planned for 2021. 
Globally, we have 37 on-site health clinics to attend   to work-related employee health and safety needs. In   addition, we have five Health for Life Centers at our sites  in Arizona, New Mexico, and Oregon to provide employees  and their eligible dependents with primary care and spe- cialty services (including acupuncture, chiropractic, and  behavioral health services, physical therapy, and special  programs such as outreach to American veterans at Intel).  The Health for Life Centers are integrated with our other  on-site health and wellness program offerings to provide   a seamless and comprehensive health and wellness   experience. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the  Health for Life Centers fast-tracked implementation of  a virtual visit strategy, delivering approximately 10,000  virtual visits in 2020 (25% of total visits).    
In 2021, in support of our 2030 safety culture and well- ness goals, we continue to expand virtual engagement  by hosting external speakers on educational safety and  well-being topics and offering additional interactive   learning games. We will adopt leading indicators to   assess progress, drive for earlier reporting of ergonomic  injuries at the first sign of fatigue discomfort, promote  easier access to services, and increase the percentage of  employees who have the opportunity to engage in our  employee safety culture surveys. We will also continue  to adapt our EHS services to support our future working  models in which we anticipate more employees will work  a hybrid schedule with some days on site and some days  working from home.   
2030 Goal: Employee Safety  and Wellness  
Description. Ensure that more than 90% of our   employees believe that Intel has a strong safety   culture, and achieve 50% participation in our global   corporate wellness program. 
Baseline. At the start of 2020: (1) 37% of Intel   employees (primarily in our manufacturing operations)  had the opportunity to provide feedback in our EHS  Safety Culture Survey, reporting a baseline average of  79% on  safety is a value  metrics  and (2) 22% of Intel  employees participated in Intel wellness programs  (inclusive of employees who reside in countries with   no formal program offerings). 
Progress in 2020. During 2020, our health, safety, and  wellness teams took steps to expand the number of  employees participating in the safety culture survey  and increase employee awareness and engagement  in our programs, with a focus on prevention and early  intervention programs (e.g., ergonomic programs)  and participation in the Intel Vitality Program s newly  expanded virtual offerings. 
Looking Ahead. For our safety culture goal, we will  work toward company-wide participation in our safety  culture survey (with target to expand survey to 50%  of employees by end of 2021) and increase employee  and management engagement in our safety programs.  For our wellness goal, we will first expand our wellness  programs access to all employees globally over the next  5 years and then aim to increase the participation rate  for all employees to 50%.  
36 intel.com responsibility 
Combating Forced and Bonded Labor 
We have worked to build a strong system to detect   and address risks of forced and bonded labor among  our suppliers and their recruiting and labor agents,  including reaching over 135 suppliers at the tier 2 level.  Our Statement on Combating Modern Slavery details the  expectations we have for ourselves and our suppliers,  including prohibitions against holding worker passports  and charging workers fees to obtain or keep employment.  Since 2014, our ongoing assessments and efforts to reach  deeper into the supply chain have positively impacted  more than 45,500 workers in our extended supply chain.  Positive impacts have included the return of over  23  million in fees to 20,000 workers by our suppliers since  2014. The fees returned could equate to approximately  three to five months of base pay, depending on location  and situation. In some instances, we have faced chal- lenges in gaining cooperation from suppliers in repaying  workers quickly, and we work closely with suppliers to  determine acceptable remedies and put systems in   place to prevent future occurrences. 
Many challenges exist combating issues related to   forced and bonded labor, including lack of full visibility  into our multi-tier supply chain. To increase our reach  and positive impact, since 2018 we have required that  approximately 50 of our suppliers work with at least  three of their own major suppliers to assess and address  their risks of forced and bonded labor. Thirty-two of   our suppliers have completed all deliverables and  demonstrated changes to tier 2 supplier policies and  procedures, stronger engagements with recruiting and  labor agents, and the return of fees of over  800,000 to  their foreign workers. COVID-19 restrictions slowed our  work in this area, and we now expect completion of this  project by the end of 2021. Over the past year, multiple  governments have imposed restrictions on products  sourced from the Xinjiang region of China. Our investors  and customers have inquired whether Intel purchases  goods or services from the region and, after conducting  
Responsible  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
due diligence, we have confirmed that Intel does   not use any labor or source goods or services from   the Xinjiang region. 
Effective January 1, 2021, we have also prohibited   the use of all forms of prison labor in our supply chain.  Previously, our policy had allowed for limited use in cases  where it was voluntary and not exploitative. We believe  our updated requirements strengthen our commitment   to human rights, social equity, and justice. 
In 2020 we continued our focus on programs where   foreign interns pay fees in their home countries to   secure roles in Japan and Korea, attend training, and   then travel to facilities. We also took action in the con- struction industry, which has been identified as one   of the highest sectors at risk for forced labor.1 We have  achieved fee repayments in Japan, and due diligence  tools we developed were integrated into the processes  of several general contractors engaged in construction  projects in Asia and the Middle East. The general con- tractors are also required to cascade our expectations   to subcontractors who are our tier 2 and tier 3 suppliers. 
Our suppliers report to us that they continue to realize  benefits as a result of their improved practices, such   as reduced business risks, better and larger pools of   candidates, a more satisfied workforce, and higher   worker retention all of which can lead to improved   productivity and product quality, as well as positive   social impacts.  
Findings that May Trigger Forced and Bonded Labor Risks 
We proactively work to identify and help suppliers close findings that we believe may be trigger factors for forced and bonded labor. Some historic  numbers have been restated due to the timing of reporting.  
Findings 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
Closed 126 49 44 36 10 
In Process   2 4 2 20 
Total 126 51 48 38 30 
1 Source: KnowTheChain: Forced Labor in the Construction Sector. 
37 intel.com responsibility 
Industry Collaboration through Training 
Collaboration is key to addressing broad, long-standing  issues. Intel co-founded and serves on the working group  of the multi-industry, multi-stakeholder Responsible  Labor Initiative (RLI), which aims to protect and promote  the rights of vulnerable workers. The RLI has established  the Responsible Recruiting Program, a recruiting agent  maturity model. In 2020, Intel also co-sponsored virtual  training sessions, Mitigating Risks of Forced Labor and  Impacts of COVID-19 on Migrant Workers in the Supply  Chain, for more than 370 supplier participants. We also  co-sponsored a multi-day comprehensive virtual training  on requirements related to combating forced labor, and  distributed a number of tools to suppliers who attended. 
In partnership with RLI and its members, Intel helped  create the Practical Guide to Due Diligence on   Recruitment Fees in International Supply Chains,   which provides guidelines and examples of best   practices to achieve fee repayment.  
For more information on our work in this area, see    Supply Chain Responsibility  and  Respecting Human  Rights  in the Our Business section of this report.  
Responsible  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Our work to combat forced and bonded labor earned  Intel the number four position on KnowTheChain s   2020 ICT benchmark list of 49 public information   and communications technology firms.  
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
2030 Goal: Supply Chain Human Rights  
Description. Scale our supplier responsibility programs to ensure respect for human rights across 100% of our tier 1  contracted suppliers and higher risk tier 2 suppliers.2  
Baseline. At the beginning of 2020, 18% of our tier 1 contracted suppliers had been assessed and engaged in our  supplier responsibility programs. Those assessed represented approximately 69% of our 2020 spends. The primary  driver of risk assessment is forced, bonded, or child labor and other human rights issues. Identified risks will be mitigated  remedied through our accountability processes.  
Progress in 2020. During 2020, our supply chain responsibility team completed initial risk profiling of 100% of our tier 1  contracted suppliers and developed an enhanced process and roadmap for completing more in-depth risk assessments.  The team also completed 50 assessments in 2020. Of those, 80% were determined to be low or medium risk. Higher risk  suppliers are targeted for follow-up actions in 2021.  
Looking Ahead. To achieve our 2030 goal, our target is to assess and validate the risk level of an additional 6-8%   suppliers per year, with all high-risk situations remediated within one year. In 2021, we will also complete additional  analysis and planning related to our risk assessment process. 
2  Tier 1 suppliers are companies from which Intel makes direct purchases (approximately 9,000 suppliers in 2020). Tier 1 contracted  
suppliers are subject to formal agreements with Intel based on the products and services provided and spends (approximately   1,500 at the beginning of 2020). Tier 2 suppliers are companies from which Intel s tier 1 suppliers make direct purchases. 
38 intel.com responsibility 
1  Conflict minerals, as defined by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), is a broad term that means tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold (3TG),  
2  CAHRAs, as defined by OECD, are identified by the presence of armed conflict, widespread violence, or other risks of harm to people. Armed conflict  may take a variety of forms, such as a conflict of international or non-international character, which may involve two or more states, or may consist  of wars of liberation, or insurgencies, civil wars, etc. High-risk areas may include areas of political instability or repression, institutional weakness,  insecurity, collapse of civil infrastructure, and widespread violence. Such areas are often characterized by widespread human rights abuses and  violations of national or international law. 
Responsible Minerals Sourcing 
Like many companies in the electronics industry, Intel and  our suppliers use minerals in manufacturing. Over a dozen  years ago, Intel began work to responsibly source conflict  minerals1 and in 2017 we expanded our efforts to also  address cobalt in our supply chain. We are proud of the  significant progress we have made as a company and as an  industry, but we know that there is more work to be done.  A key technology initiative in our 2030 RISE strategy is to  significantly expand our impact in responsible minerals  and accelerate the creation of new sourcing standards.  
Intel s mission is to maintain the positive progress we ve  made to date on 3TG (tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold)  and cobalt, and to proactively address emerging risks  from the expanding scope of materials and geographies.  Our ambition is to apply our learnings from the past   decade and work with our industry to broaden and   accelerate the creation of sourcing standards for a much  wider set of minerals across additional conflict-affected  and high-risk areas (CAHRAs2).   
More information is available on our Responsible  Minerals website. Our Responsible Minerals program,  Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy, and due diligence  practices address minerals originating in CAHRAs, and   are aligned to the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for  Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-  Affected and High-Risk Areas (OECD Guidance).  
Responsible  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
regardless of whether these minerals finance conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries.   
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Beyond Conflict Minerals: Driving a Responsibly  Sourced Mineral Supply Chain 
The first step in our efforts to encompass all minerals  used in semiconductor manufacturing was to prioritize  the next phase of minerals toward which Intel would  direct responsible sourcing efforts. We accomplished  this by compiling Intel usage data and known mineral  risks, as well as prevalence of sourcing from CAHRAs. We  compared our work with analyses and initiatives being  undertaken by stakeholders and the industry, leading  Intel to select aluminum, copper, nickel, and silver as the  next set of minerals to target. To contribute to standards  and help define and engage in due diligence within the  copper supply chain, Intel became a partner member of  The Copper Mark. Our next steps will be to work with  our suppliers to map our supply chain for the targeted  minerals and to ensure standards are in place to enable  us to pursue our ultimate goal of responsible sourcing  for all the minerals in our supply chain. We will contin- ue to identify the highest priority minerals to work on in  pursuit of our 2030 RISE Goals. 
Connecting with Mining Communities 
In late 2019, Intel was part of a delegation of non-  governmental organizations, US government   representatives, and other technology companies  that visited the Democratic Republic of the Congo and  neighboring Rwanda to observe and discuss challenges  facing the mining industry. The delegation was organized  by the Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals  Trade (PPA), where Intel holds a leadership position.  A key takeaway from this experience was the need for  corporations to increase upstream program support to  
ensure sustainability and improve the livelihoods of the  most vulnerable communities tied to our supply chain.  In response, Intel has developed a more comprehensive  program to partner with our peers and vetted NGOs to  increase mining community support as a complement   to our due-diligence program. A few examples of   projects supported by Intel in 2020 are: City of Joy (via  the PPA), a group providing health care, education, and  holistic rehabilitation to survivors of gender violence   in Congolese mining communities  Congo Power, an   alliance providing mining areas with clean power  and   the PACT-RMI Youth Vocational Training Program, aimed  at providing mining alternatives to Congolese youths.  
Intel also recognizes the local socio-economic importance  of the artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) sector in  CAHRAs and seeks to assist ASM sites in meeting down- stream compliance requirements through the Better  Mining ASM Mine Monitoring Program in partnership  with Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) and RCS Global.  We believe that maintaining a connection and providing  support to the communities that we depend on in our  vast global supply chain is a crucial component to our  responsible minerals program. 
39 intel.com responsibility 
3   Responsibly sourced  refers to products from suppliers, supply chains, smelters, and refiners that, based on our due diligence, are in line with current  
global standards and respect human rights in every aspect of their practice.  
Our Due Diligence Continues: 3TG and Cobalt 
Intel s responsible 3TG and cobalt program, aligned with  the OECD Guidance, focuses on three primary areas: 
Risk Identification. Each year we conduct a supply chain  survey to identify the smelters and refiners that process  the 3TG and cobalt contained in the products supplied  to Intel, and the country of origin of minerals used. We  then compare those smelters and refiners to the list of  facilities that conform to a responsible minerals sourcing  validation program such as RMI s Responsible Minerals  Assurance Process (RMAP). We use the information to  identify potential mineral supply chain risks.  
Risk Mitigation. When we identify potential risks, we  conduct further due diligence, which may include on-  site smelter or refinery visits or virtual outreach. Such  visits or virtual outreach help identify risks, encourage  smelters and refiners to participate in an audit program to  validate their sourcing practices, and drive risk mitigation  for human rights impacts. When necessary, we will disen- gage from mineral supply chains that cannot uphold our  responsible minerals sourcing standards. Additionally,   Intel increased virtual outreach activities to smelters   and refiners already participating in a third-party audit  program to ensure participation continuity, minimize   disruption and provide additional support throughout   the pandemic.   
Supporting In-Region Sourcing. We believe that the  creation and support of responsibly sourced3 minerals  from CAHRAs improve the lives of the people in the  regions. Our membership in and support of the PPA and  European Partnership for Responsible Minerals (EPRM)  directly support regional projects that enable responsibly  sourced minerals from CAHRAs by helping to implement  programs that are consistent with the OECD Guidance  and supported RMI programs. Intel also answered the call  to provide COVID-19 related emergency funding to the  International Tin Association s International Tin Supply  
Responsible  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Chain Initiative (iTSCi), a traceability scheme of which Intel  is a member, to help ensure that responsible in-region  sourcing and assurance continued without interruption.  
3TG. Through our annual supply chain survey process,  all of the relevant suppliers and refiners reported in our  supply chain are deemed responsibly sourced through  their conformance to and or participation in a responsible  minerals sourcing program.  
Cobalt. For the second year, Intel used the RMI Cobalt   Response Template (CRT) to survey all suppliers   contributing cobalt to our products. We received a CRT   from 89% of suppliers surveyed. We are continuing   communication and outreach to our suppliers to further  improve this response rate. Intel conducted risk mitiga- tion in our supply chain, including smelter outreach and  country of origin assessments, as well as working with  direct suppliers to facilitate alternative sourcing where  appropriate. See a complete list of cobalt facilities that  may have processed cobalt in Intel s supply chain based  on supplier responses to our 2020 survey.   
Intel s long-term leadership in initiatives such as the RMI  and PPA allow us to regularly collaborate on the issue  of responsible minerals sourcing with other companies,  industries, governments, and civil society. Such collabo- ration is crucial to identify and address risks associated  with mineral extraction and trade in complex mineral  supply chains. All participants, from the mines through  device manufacturers, have a responsibility to ensure  that they do not contribute to human rights abuses. Intel  continues to advance responsible sourcing across our  product lines, materials, and industry as our business   and the world landscape continues to evolve.   
Our annual conflict minerals disclosure filed with the   US Securities and Exchange Commission contains   additional information about our 3TG and cobalt due  diligence practices.  
40 intel.com responsibility 
1 Source: World Health Organization, Road Traffic Injuries.   
Responsible Mobility 
According to the World Health Organization, 1.35 million  people die each year as a result of road traffic crashes.  More than half of all road traffic deaths are among vulner- able road users pedestrians, cyclists, and motorcyclists  and 93% occur in low- and middle-income countries.1  Autonomous vehicle (AV) technology has the potential to  improve road safety, save lives, and transform personal  mobility, including bringing broader mobility to the elderly  and those with disabilities. It can also reduce traffic con- gestion and thereby provide environmental benefits   such as reduced emissions. 
Intel s Mobileye business is a global leader in driving  assistance and self-driving solutions. The company s  product portfolio employs a broad set of technologies  covering computer vision and machine learning-based  sensing, data analysis, localization, mapping, and driving  policy technology for advanced driver-assistance systems  (ADAS) and AVs. Mobileye technology helps keep the  drivers and passengers of more than 70 million vehicles  safer today. 
One of Intel s 2030 RISE technology industry initiatives   is to collaborate with industry, ecosystem partners, and  governments to advance the adoption of technology-  neutral safety standards to advance the AV industry   in pursuit of reduced traffic accidents globally. We   will achieve this through the standardization of Intel s   Responsibility-Sensitive Safety (RSS) safety model to  enable safe, commercial deployment of AVs at scale,   anywhere in the world, via self-driving Mobility-as-a-  Service (MaaS). Mobileye will also include RSS in more  advanced ADAS vehicles coming to market in 2021   as well as AVs destined for consumer use that are  expected to arrive in the second half of the decade. 
Responsible  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Introduced in 2017, RSS is a formal model for safety  based on human concepts of what it means to drive   safely. RSS enables efficient validation of the safety of   an AV providing strong assurances to the public of the  safety of AVs. RSS formalizes human decision making for  safe driving and is based on the need to balance safety with  useful driving by making reasonable worst-case assump- tions about other road users. RSS is a technology-neutral  approach to AV safety and provides regulators around the  world a transparent way to evaluate the performance of  driverless vehicles.  
RSS has become a leading model for global AV safety  frameworks. Numerous standards bodies are beginning  to include RSS in their standards development activities.  Regulators and policymakers are looking at RSS as a tool  for defining what it means for an AV to drive  safely.    Researchers are digging into the application of RSS   and pushing the boundaries of its efficacy. Standards  progress has been especially robust, as RSS has been  contributed to both IEEE and International Organization  for Standardization (ISO) standards efforts. In late 2019,  Intel was named to lead an IEEE working group to develop  an open, transparent, and technology-neutral formal   model for safety. The first project from this working  group, known as IEEE P2846: Assumptions for Models  in Safety-Related Automated Vehicle Behavior, will   define reasonably foreseeable assumptions that an AV  safety model shall consider about other road users when  operating in the real world. The working group includes  other industry representatives from Waymo, Aurora, FCA,  Ford, Motional, Nvidia and more. The group is working  toward publication in 2021. 
Additionally, ISO has adopted the Safety First for  Automated Driving (SaFAD) paper as a technical report,  and it is now being improved to a Technical Standard. This  paper was published by Intel and 10 other automotive   industry representatives (BMW, Daimler, VW, and more),  and includes RSS in the Drive Planning Element that  supports a capability to create a  collision-free and lawful  driving plan.  China ITS, the standards body for the  world s largest passenger vehicle market, has released  an AV standard based on RSS. Intel has also presented  and contributed RSS to regulatory standards efforts at  the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. 
Other standards organizations, businesses, and think  tanks are evaluating and or using RSS, including SAE- ITC s Automated Vehicle Safety Consortium, Baidu,   Valeo, the RAND Corporation, and Arizona s Institute   of Automated Mobility (IAM). Intel is also working to   educate policymakers on the critical importance of   policy actions and regulation to advance the adoption  of transparent and open AV safety standards in efforts  like NHTSA s Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking,  Framework for Automated Driving System Safety. 
41 intel.com responsibility 
Revolutionizing Health and Safety Through Technology 
We will apply our expertise, resources, and technology  to enable others to harness the power of technology  to improve health, safety, and wellness in the areas of  healthcare and life sciences, manufacturing, and trans- portation. To learn more about our work to expand the  use of technology in transportation to reduce accidents  and traffic fatalities, see  Responsible Mobility  earlier in  this section.  
Healthcare and Life Sciences 
As global health and safety challenges continue to   evolve and grow in complexity, technology will play   a key role in making healthcare and life sciences more  connected, personalized, and intelligent. This will enable  improved patient experiences, enhanced population  health, reduced costs, and streamlined workloads   for providers and researchers. With the use of our   technology for AI in medical imaging, for example,   Intel has enabled providers to identify anomalies   more quickly and accurately, which can lead to faster  diagnoses. Combined with Internet of Things healthcare  technologies, AI has transformed telemedicine, patient  monitoring, and electronic health record keeping. In lab  and research environments, our technology innovations  give researchers powerful tools to make breakthrough  discoveries and solve some of the world s most complex  healthcare and life science challenges. Learn more.  
During 2020, we collaborated with many customers   on health-related technology solutions through our   Pandemic Response Technology Initiative (PRTI). In   2021, we expanded the PRTI and renamed it the   Intel RISE Technology Initiative to further accelerate   and fund collaborative projects with Intel customers. 
Responsible  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
COVID-19 Testing. In the early days of the pandemic,  hospitals were overwhelmed just diagnosing COVID-19  due to a shortage of tests. Intel partners stepped up to use  medical imaging equipment, like CT machines and X-ray  machines, to fill the gap for diagnosis using AI. These  smart machines can analyze patient films and determine  the presence and severity of COVID-19. The solution  helped pave the way for organizations to create diverse  datasets for more accurate diagnoses. UC San Francisco  is leveraging Intel  Software Guard Extensions to deploy  a confidential computing platform that will help protect  both the algorithms and privacy of healthcare data when  building AI models. Intel also worked with India s Council  of Scientific and Industrial Research and International   Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad, to   deploy Intel client and server solutions to enable faster  and less expensive COVID-19 testing and coronavirus  genome sequencing.  
Telehealth and Remote Care Solutions. With Medtronic,  Intel  NUC Mini PCs were used to build remote ventilators  so doctors could monitor multiple ventilated patients at  a time without risking exposure. Banner Health, VeeMed,  and Intel worked together to augment existing in-room  displays with an Intel NUC Mini PC running telehealth  software. Providers and specialists were able to offer   critical consultative support for COVID-19 patients,  remotely speak to patients, check data from in-room  monitors, and even Zoom in for visual exams. 
Safer Workplaces and Manufacturing  
Industrial enabled AI Ready PCs can optimize the   performance of the smart factory by monitoring   anything from potential safety hazards to operational  efficiency improvements. From offshore drilling rigs   
to fulfillment warehouses, Internet of Things solutions  from Intel deliver information to connected workers   and systems that increases safety and productivity. 
To protect patrons and essential workers and make it   safer for businesses to reopen, the PRTI invested in  several projects, including an AI-enabled occupancy and  social distancing controls project with Johnson Controls.  The solution replaces human observation monitoring of  social distancing with environmental data and sensors to  optimize air quality and physical distancing analysis. 
Protecting Personal Safety and  Tackling Human Trafficking 
In early 2021, Intel joined the WePROTECT Global  Alliance, a multi-stakeholder public-private partnership  that aims to end child sexual exploitation and abuse   online by bringing members together to work on the   global response. Partnering with other alliance members,  Intel donated hardware and engineering talent to develop  the IT infrastructure at the National Center for Missing  and Exploited Children (NCMEC). This builds upon our  work with organizations like Thorn, to develop technology  that defends children from sexual abuse, including software  that is used to help law enforcement find sexually exploited  children more quickly. Intel also has worked with NCMEC to  improve storage and routing of its CyberTips report, a report  generated when a tech company detects evidence of child  sexual abuse. During the global pandemic, NCMEC saw  a huge spike in CyberTips, with the number rising 318%  between April 2019 and April 2020. Learn more.  
42 intel.com responsibility 
Inclusive  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Diversity, equity, and inclusion are core to Intel s values and instrumental in   
driving innovation and delivering strong business growth. We take action to   
advance a culture of inclusion and accountability by integrating measures   
across our performance management systems, compensation programs,   
and hiring processes. We are committed to transparently reporting our   
representation and pay equity data to hold ourselves accountable and   
encourage action by others. Through our 2030 goals, we continue to raise   
the bar for ourselves and our supply chain, and aspire to achieve wider   
impact by leading industry collaborations to advance inclusion and social   
equity and make technology fully inclusive and accessible for millions of   
people around the world. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
4 industry-wide inclusion actions 
We launched the Alliance for Global Inclusion to drive   collective impact in four key areas: leadership representa- tion, inclusive language, inclusive product development,   and STEM readiness in underserved communities. 
 1.2B annual spending with   diverse-owned businesses   
We spent  1.2 billion with diverse-owned suppliers in   2020, making progress toward our 2030 goal to reach    2 billion annually.   
1M Girls Moonshot  
The Intel Foundation has joined forces with the STEM   Next Opportunity Fund, the Gordon and Betty Moore   Foundation, and the Charles Stewart Mott Foundation   to launch the Million Girls Moonshot, aimed at equipping   1 million more girls from under-resourced communities  with an engineering mindset.    
43 intel.com responsibility 
Inclusive: Our Approach 
Over the past decade, we have taken actions to deeply  integrate diversity and inclusion expectations into our  culture, performance management systems, leadership  expectations, and annual bonus metrics, and to trans- parently report on our progress and data. Through an  integrated strategy focused on hiring, retention, and  progression, we met our 2020 goal to achieve full   representation1 of underrepresented minorities and  women in our US workforce two years ahead of schedule.  We also achieved gender pay equity globally and race  ethnicity pay equity in the US, and reached our 2020 goal  of  1 billion in annual spending with diverse suppliers. We  are proud of what we have accomplished to date, but we  recognize we still have work to do, including beyond the  walls of Intel.  
Our commitment to fostering a diverse, equitable, and  inclusive culture is a business imperative and key to our  long-term success. We also know that what happens  outside of Intel is felt inside Intel. In response to acts of  
Inclusive  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
1  Full representation means that Intel s workforce now reflects the  
percentage of women and underrepresented minorities available   in the US skilled labor market.  
racism and violence in 2020, Intel s senior management  and our Board publicly affirmed that inaction is not an  option for Intel, and Intel and the Intel Foundation have  taken several actions to advance social equity and   catalyze change through strategic collaborations.  
Our RISE strategy and 2030 goals set our global   ambitions for the next decade. We will continue to   advance inclusion in our workforce using a holistic   approach toward representation, pay equity, and   creating an inclusive and accessible culture that enables  employees to develop and progress in their careers   at all levels. In 2021, we will also continue to link a   portion of our executive and employee compensation   to diversity and inclusion metrics to drive accountability  and progress.  
We know that today s greatest challenges require a  shared commitment to a plan and meaningful action to  advance inclusion and social equity. That is why we have  committed our scale, expertise, and reach to launch the  Alliance for Global Inclusion to create and implement an  Inclusion Index with unified goals and metrics. We will  also work with a broad range of stakeholders on initia- tives that expand the diverse pipeline of talent for our  industry. We aspire to make technology fully inclusive  and expand technology access and digital readiness for  millions of people around the world who currently do   not have the technology skills or access needed to   participate and thrive in our digital economy. 
2030 RISE:  Inclusive Goals,   Initiatives, and Global Challenges 
GLOBAL CHALLENGE:  Make technology fully inclusive and expand digital readiness. 
TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY INITIATIVES: 
Inclusion Index. Drive full inclusion and accessibility across   the technology industry by creating and implementing a Global  Inclusion Index with common metrics to advance progress. 
Inclusive Pipeline. Expand the inclusive pipeline of talent for  our industry through innovative global education initiatives  and STEM programs for girls and underrepresented groups. 
OPERATIONAL AND SUPPLY CHAIN GOALS: 
Senior Leadership. Double the number of women and   underrepresented minorities in senior leadership roles. 
Technical Roles. Exceed 40% representation of women in  technical positions. 
Inclusive Leadership. Ensure that inclusive leadership practices  and accountability are embedded in our culture globally by  creating and adopting an inclusive leader certification program. 
Accessibility and Disability Inclusion. Advance accessibility  and increase the percentage of employees who self-identify  as having a disability to 10% of our workforce.  
Supplier Diversity. Increase global annual spending with  diverse suppliers by 100% (to  2 billion). 
44 intel.com responsibility 
Inclusive Workforce 
We believe that when every employee has a voice and a  sense of belonging, Intel can be more innovative, agile,  and competitive. An inclusive culture that welcomes  all perspectives is critical for attracting, retaining, and  progressing top talent. Intel is committed to providing a  work environment where employees from all backgrounds  are valued, respected, challenged, acknowledged, and  rewarded so they can achieve their full potential.  
Transparency and open sharing of our data enables   us to both celebrate progress and identify key areas   for action and improvement. This year we progressed  globally in our advancement of women in experienced  and senior positions and saw significant growth among  our Hispanic Latinx and veteran populations in the   US. Women comprised about 27% of promotions   to vice president, showing an increased attention   to progression. However, our African American   representation was roughly flat from 2019 to 2020.  
Through our 2030 goals, we are committed to   advancing the representation of women and   underrepresented minorities in leadership and   technical positions at Intel, advancing accessibility,   and embedding inclusive leadership practices in   our culture and across our business.  
Additional detail is available on our Diversity and  Inclusion website and the We Are Intel blog series. 
Inclusive  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
 In 2020, Intel funded a research study looking at how   diversity and inclusion factors impact the career decisions  for Gen Z (those born between 1997 and 2012). Over half  (56%) said they would be hesitant to accept a job from   an organization that does not have any underrepresented  minorities in senior leadership roles, and a majority said   that a company s stance on diversity and inclusion is   almost as important as the pay offered.  
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
1  2020 representation data as of Dec. 26, 2020. 2019 data as of Dec. 28, 2019.  Executives  refers to salary grades 12  and equivalent grades.  Senior  
2  We selected the April 30 baseline to align with the completion of our annual performance review process and promotion cycle.  
Women at Intel   Global Data1 
Leadership  refers to salary grades 10  and equivalent grades.  Senior  refers to salary grades 8-9 and equivalent grades.  Experienced  includes  salary grades 6 to 7 and equivalent grades.  Entry Level  refers to salary grades 2 to 5 and equivalent grades. The definition of  Technical  is based  on Intel s internal job codes and reflects technical job requirements. While we present male and female in this table, we acknowledge this is not fully  encompassing of all gender identities. See information about our self-identify initiatives related to our LGBT  employees later in this section. We  define URM to include our Hispanic, African American, and Native American employees in the US.  
Board of Directors 20.0% 30.0% 
Executives 20.1% 20.7% 
Senior   Leadership 18.6% 18.8% 
Senior 20.3% 21.3% 
Experienced 29.4% 30.4% 
Entry-Level 37.8% 37.9% 
All Global   Employees 27.5% 27.8% 
Technical 24.8% 25.2% 
Non-Technical 58.3% 57.7% 
2030 Goal: Representation in Senior Leadership  
Description. Double the number of women and underrepresented minorities (URMs) in senior leadership roles.  
Baseline. 1,250 women and 380 URMs in senior leadership roles as of April 30, 2020.2 Target for 2030 is to reach 2,500  women and 760 URMs in senior leadership. 
Progress in 2020. During 2020, our teams developed a comprehensive implementation plan, with key actions focused on  hiring, retention, progression, engaging key human resources teams and business unit leaders, and developing new pro- grams. We also built customized data scorecards to enable business groups to effectively analyze and track their progress  toward the corporate goals. At the end of 2020, Intel had 1,268 women and 384 URMs in senior leadership.  
Looking Ahead. We have set milestones of: (1) reaching 1,375 women in senior leadership roles by the end of 2021  and  (2) increasing representation by 10% of Black African American employees in senior, director, and executive roles in our  US population by the end of 2021. By the end of 2023, we aim to increase representation of US Black African American  employees in senior, director, and executive roles by 30%.   
US Workforce Representation Data1 
Women 26.4% 26.3% 
URMs 15.8% 16.3% 
URMs in Senior  Leadership  7.3% 7.6% 
URM Women 3.8% 3.8% 
White 45.9 % 45.8 % 
Asian 37.9 % 37.6 % 
Hispanic Latinx 10.1% 10.5% 
African American 4.9% 5.0% 
Native American 0.8% 0.8% 
Pacific Islander 0.3% 0.4% 
Veterans 7.0% 7.3% 
intel.com responsibility 
Inclusive  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
2030 Goal: Women in   Technical Positions 
Description. Exceed 40% representation of women   in technical positions.  
Baseline. 24.9% of technical roles held by women   globally as of April 30, 2020.3  
Progress in 2020. During 2020, our teams continued to  engage our female technical talent through our Women  at Intel Network programs  supported attendance of  Intel employees at industry forums such as the Society  for Women Engineers, Professional BusinessWomen of  California, Working Mother Media, and AnitaB.org  and  worked with Intel business units to assess key gaps and  opportunities to advance progress. At the end of 2020,  25.2% of technical roles were held by women.  
Looking Ahead. We set a target to reach 26% of   technical roles held by women by the end of 2021   and will continue to assess and monitor promotion  
parity for key technical grade levels. We will also pilot  a new sponsor-protege program for our senior female  technical talent, with plans for scaled enterprise-wide  roll-out in 2022. 
3  We selected the April 30 baseline to align with the   
completion of our annual performance review process   and promotion cycle.  
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Pay Equity 
Since 2019, we have achieved gender pay equity globally  and we continue to maintain race ethnicity pay equity in  the US. We achieve pay equity by closing the gap in aver- age pay between employees of different genders or race  ethnicity in the same or similar roles after accounting for  legitimate business factors that can explain differences,  such as location, time at grade level, and tenure.  
Intel s legal and human resources teams work with  third-party experts using proven statistical modeling  techniques to monitor and advance global pay equity.  We have continued to evolve our methodology over time,  and our calculations now include stock grants in addition  to base pay and bonuses. Individual employees who are  identified as having a gap through this analysis receive  appropriate adjustments. Based on our 2020 assessment,  on average, women globally made  1 for every  1 men  made and on average, URM employees in the US made   1 for every  1 non-URM employees made. 
A key component of our pay equity strategy is our   commitment to transparency, which helps us to hold   ourselves accountable and encourage action by others.   In support of this goal, we first publicly released our  EEO-1 survey pay data in 2019. Although the US Equal  Employment Opportunity Commission subsequently  decided it would not continue to require the reporting  of pay information, we felt it was important to continue  collecting the data and to disclose it publicly in 2020.   According to a recent analysis by Just Capital, we have  been one of the few US companies to publish the   EEO-1 survey pay data. 
Inclusive Culture  
Inclusion is one of Intel s core values and it is at the heart  of our culture. We have taken actions to integrate our  inclusion expectations into our policies, performance  management systems, leadership expectations, annual  bonus metrics, and employee surveys.  
The Intel Code of Conduct and Intel Global Human Rights  Principles set out our commitment to nondiscrimination  and to provide a workplace free of harassment. We have  redesigned our employee performance management   system and leadership promotions process to focus  on results delivered, as well as how those results are  achieved through alignment with Intel s values and   commitment to inclusion.  
Inclusion Intel. The global Inclusion Intel portal   provides a community for employees and empowers  them to build tangible and actionable inclusive practices  into their everyday work environment. This unique   platform provides highlights on inclusive leaders,   inclusion training, sharing of best practices, videos,   podcasts, and scenario cards that can be used to   encourage critical conversations. Our Inclusive   Leaders program is designed to equip managers to   play leadership roles in growing Intel s inclusive culture  and fostering leadership skills needed to build diverse  and inclusive, high-performing teams. Since 2017,   this program has reached 2,500 mid-senior grade   employees, with 93% of participants stating it enabled  them to improve their inclusive leadership skills and   have a positive impact on their teams. To scale further  impact, we are integrating program content into a new  enterprise  Manager Academy  to be rolled out to our  managers worldwide beginning in 2021.  
Inclusive Hiring Practices. We have developed a set   of best practices and training to mitigate the influence   of unconscious bias in the hiring process. These   practices include posting of formal requisitions for  internal positions, using impartial descriptions of  qualifications for all open jobs, and having diverse slates   of candidates and diverse hiring panels. In 2020, we  linked a portion of our Annual Performance Bonus to  metrics aimed at accelerating global inclusive hiring  behaviors in support of our 2030 workforce inclusion  goals. We met these goals, providing inclusivity training  to 99% of hiring managers globally, and completing  84% of internal hiring through posted requisitions. 
46 intel.com responsibility 
Employee Resource Groups and Leadership Councils.  We offer more than 35 Employee Resource Groups   (ERGs) and seven Leadership Councils that connected  over 25,000 employees in 2020, with 22% of employees  now members of an ERG. We encourage employees to   participate in resource groups beyond their personal  affinities to build relationships with a wider community  and exchange learnings. Connecting employees through  forums, groups, training, events, and mentoring programs  has also been a long-standing hallmark of Intel s culture.  Retention rates increase when people feel included in  deep and wide-ranging networks.  
Our Leadership Councils, composed of over 370 Intel  leaders, help guide and mentor members of the ERGs,  and also lead efforts in retention, recruiting, and pro- fessional development. The Intel Disability Leadership  Council, Veteran Leadership Council, Black Leadership  Council, Latinx Leadership Council, Native American   and Pacific Islander Leadership Council, Network of   Executive Women, and Out and Ally Leadership   Council host sponsorship programs to help advance  leaders within their respective communities. Council  members include the senior-most employees and allies  to support each other and their communities, and drive  better business results. Their overall mission is to pro- mote the progression and growth of diverse employees  and foster an inclusive culture where all employees   can thrive professionally. 
Employee Surveys. Through our regular Employee   Experience Surveys, employees can voice their   perceptions of the company and their work experience,   including their views on our diversity and inclusion  performance and culture. In 2020, 88% of employees  reported,  I am treated with dignity and respect at   work  and 87% reported,  Intel makes it easy for people  from diverse backgrounds to fit in and be accepted.    In 2021, we are integrating additional diversity and   inclusion questions into our survey to drive greater   insights into employee sentiment and opportunities   for improvements. 
Inclusive  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Employee Resource Groups 
These groups can serve as powerful networks, offering opportunities for personal and professional development, access   to mentors, and volunteer activities that facilitate teamwork and build camaraderie.  
Agnostics, Atheists, and Allies at Intel 
American Veterans at Intel 
Arab Intel Community 
Asian Cultural Integration 
Baha'i Intel Network 
EXTEND Community 
Intel Armenian Society 
Intel Bangladesh Association 
Intel Bible-Based Christian Network 
Intel Chinese Employee Network 
Intel Disability and Accessibility Network 
Intel Doctorates Leadership Forum 
Intel Eastern European     Balkanika Group 
Inclusive Language Guide 
In 2020, a cross-Intel team of technologists developed an  Inclusive language in engineering guide,  the result of a project  initiated in 2019 to remove potentially offensive terminology from coding language at Intel and to influence change across  the broader technology industry. Words with deep personal and historical context as they relate to slavery, racism, equity,  and oppression continue to be used across the technology industry specifically the terms  master slave  in programming  protocols and  blacklist whitelist,  referring to good and bad commands. This work gained significant momentum following  the death of George Floyd, as people searched for ways to address issues related to racism and to drive more inclusion.   The result has been extensive dialogue and commitment to change across Intel as people recognize that the use of this   type of vocabulary runs counter to Intel s inclusion values and goals. Senior business unit inclusive language allies were   designated to facilitate discussions and adoption, and members of the Intel Standards and Open Source workgroup   have been engaging with others working to drive change on a larger scale across the industry, the education system,   and around the globe. Intel also hosted a discussion within 3GPP, a global Standards Development Organization for   telecommunications, to develop more inclusive and neutral language in all 3GPP specifications. 
Intel Filipino Employee Network 
Intel French Speakers Network 
Intel Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual,   or Transgender Employees 
Intel Hindu Network 
Intel Iranian Employee Group 
Intel India Employee Group 
Intel Jewish Community 
Intel Korean Community 
Intel Latinx Network 
Intel Muslim Employee Group 
Intel Native American Network 
Intel Nepalese Group 
Intel Pakistani Employee Group 
Intel Parents Network 
Intel Russian-Speaking   Employee Group 
Intel Sikh Employee Group 
Intel Taiwan Network 
Intel Vietnamese Group 
Network of Intel African Ancestry 
Next(gen) Professionals Network 
Pacific Islanders of Intel 
Partners for Inclusion and Equity 
Turkish Employee Network at Intel 
Women at Intel Network 
47 intel.com responsibility 
Focus on LGBT  Inclusion 
In 2020, we continued our focus on cultivating an inclusive work environment that recog- nizes LGBT  employee value, provides competitive benefits, fosters a sense of belonging,  and promotes growth and opportunities globally. IGLOBE, our LGBT  employee resource  group, celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2020. IGLOBE now has 13 chapters globally and  is supported by the Out and Ally Leadership Council. Each year, we also celebrate inclusion  through events such as Pride month and Transgender Day of Visibility. Read the blog. 
Since 2002, the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) has listed Intel on its Corporate Equality  Index (CEI), and has given the company the top CEI score of 100 in 16 of those years.   The CEI recognizes employers that take concrete steps to ensure greater equality for  LGBT  workers and their families in the form of comprehensive policies, benefits, and   practices. Our scores demonstrate our commitment to fostering an inclusive environment  and supporting LGBT  employees throughout their experience at Intel. In 2020, Intel   Guadalajara also earned 100 points and received HRC Equidad MX Certification, awarded   to companies in Mexico committed to providing LGBT  inclusion in the workplace. 
In 2017, we launched our first LGBT  self-identify (ID) survey for our US employees and  expanded this work globally in 2018 by embedding categories for sexual orientation  and gender identity into our human resources systems. In 2020 we repeated our LGBT   
Hiring, Retention, and Progression 
In support of our 2030 goals and to continue our goal   to be a workplace of choice for top talent, we have   developed a set of programs and initiatives to support  inclusive hiring, retention, and progression practices. 
Through the Intel Scholars Program, we award scholar- ships to technical women and URM students pursuing  undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM fields, with  the goal of increasing the diverse talent pipeline aligned  with Intel s overall hiring needs. The program engages  internal business units and Intel leaders, as well as 15  external partners, to provide support to diverse talent,  including financial scholarships, internships, exposure  to Intel job opportunities, mentors, networking, research  insights, and training opportunities.  
Inclusive  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Since its launch in 2016, Intel s confidential employee  service, the Warmline, has provided employees with  support to work through personal and professional  roadblocks and explore different options before they  consider leaving the company. Employees reach out to  the Warmline to discuss a variety of concerns, from rela- tionship problems with their manager to feeling stuck in  their current position. Warmline advisors listen, provide  resources such as communication strategies, and assist  employees on their path to desired opportunities within  the company. The Warmline provides a robust data set  to help us identify patterns, locate problem areas, and  address issues proactively and systemically. In 2019, we  expanded the Warmline service from the US to Costa  Rica, Mexico, and Israel, and in 2020 extended real-time  Warmline support and guidance at scale for our global  
inclusion survey globally and found that 10% of  respondents identified as being LGBT  and that  92% of LGBT  employees who responded said  they felt fully included at Intel. However, only  56% of respondents reported being open about  their sexual orientation or gender identity at work,  which indicates we have more work to do in   building psychological safety in the workplace.  
In 2021 our focus will be on tackling these gaps  and expanding our self-ID capability globally to  countries where it is legal and safe to do so and   to drive education programs for managers and  employees on the value of self-ID to enable a  strong data-driven approach to making progress   in this area.  
workforce. 87% of employees who used the service in  2020 have stayed at Intel and 91% would recommend   it to others.  
In 2021, we will build on these learnings to pilot an   Executive Warmline and related transition support for   our senior leaders to advance our 2030 representation  goal. We will also pilot two additional programs:   a sponsor-protege program for women and URM leaders  (targeting  grades 8-11) aimed at increasing promotion  and development opportunities and improving job   satisfaction and retention rates  and a  Talent Keepers   program aimed at more directly engaging managers of  Black and African American employees in the US and   Costa Rica (targeting grades 3-9) in career development  and progression discussions and initiatives. 
48 intel.com responsibility 
Undesired Turnover 
These figures include all regular Intel employees who voluntarily left  Intel in 2020, but do not include Intel contract employees, interns, or  employees who separated from Intel due to divestiture, retirement,  voluntary separation packages, death, job elimination, or redeployment.   In 2020, our overall undesired global turnover rate was 4.0%. 
Inclusive  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
United States 
Hispanic 2.5% 
African American 4.7% 
Native American 2.4% 
Linking Compensation to Diversity  and Inclusion Goals 
Since 2008, we have linked a portion of our executive   and employee compensation to corporate responsibility  metrics, including diversity and inclusion metrics. In 2020,  we met these metrics, which focused on inclusive hiring  practices in support of our 2030 workforce inclusion  goals. In 2021, metrics will support of our 2030 goal  to double the number of women and URMs in senior  leadership by achieving a milestone of 1,375 women in  senior leadership roles globally and increasing by 10%  the representation of Black African American employees  in senior, director, and executive level roles in our US  workforce. For more information, see our 2021 Proxy  Statement and the Sustainable section of this report. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Accessibility and Disability Inclusion 
We strive to become a global employer of choice for   people with disabilities and those caring for family   members with disabilities by providing a best-in-class  workplace for advancing accessibility and disability   inclusion. According to the World Health Organization,  15% of the world s population (over 1 billion people)  have some form of disability and it is estimated that   70% of disabilities are invisible.5  
The Intel Corporate Accessibility Policy outlines our   commitment to a culture of accessibility and broader  impact through our technology. Through our five-pillar  strategy, we focus on advancing accessible design and  innovative technology solutions, physical and digital  accessibility in the workplace, integration of accessibility  best practices in our culture, use of accessible hiring   and employee practices, and external engagement  and collaboration. The Intel Disability and Accessibility  Network has a presence at 11 of our sites worldwide and  is supported by the Intel Disability Leadership Council.  These groups advocate for and work to advance and   retain our disability community, while amplifying   awareness both internally and externally. 
In 2020, Intel was recognized by DisabilityIN for the  fourth consecutive year, earned the maximum score   of 100 in the Disability Equality Index (DEI), and was  named one of the Best Places to Work for People with  Disabilities. The DEI, a joint initiative with the American  Association of People with Disabilities, is a comprehen- sive benchmarking tool that provides an objective score  and roadmap on disability inclusion policies and practices.  In early 2021, Intel joined The Valuable 500, a global CEO  community focused on advancing disability inclusion  through business leadership. 
For the fourth consecutive year, we  earned the maximum score of 100 in  the Disability Equality Index (DEI). 
  Recognized by DisabilityIN 
4  We define URM to include our Hispanic, African American, and Native  
5 World Health Organization and Invisible Disabilities Association. 
In 2020, we developed and launched additional   employee training on how to create accessible   communications materials, meetings, and events. We  added captioning to Intel Executive Leadership events  and product launches and also created an Assistive  Technology Toolkit for employees. In addition, Intel  technology teams have been developing accessibility  solutions and accessible product design processes.   For more information, see  Making Technology Fully  Inclusive  later in this section. 
American employees. 
2030 Goal: Accessibility  and Disability Inclusion 
Description. Advance accessibility and increase the  percentage of employees who self-ID as having a  disability to 10% of our workforce by 2030. 
Baseline. 1.4% of Intel s US workforce self-IDed as  having a disability as of December 2020. 
Progress in 2020. Prior to setting our 2030 goal,   our efforts to invite employees with disabilities to   voluntarily self-ID were limited to the US. During  2020, we began preparing for the global expansion   of our self-ID process, and also developed our  maturity model and scaling roadmap to fully embed  accessibility into our culture and processes globally.   
Looking Ahead. In 2021, we will educate leaders,  managers, and employees on the value of self-ID and  will build capability to measure self-ID globally for  more than 90% of employees in 2022. We will also  complete our gap analysis and accessibility training  roadmap, update the Intel Accessibility Policy, and  take critical steps to further integrate disability   inclusion into our employee systems and processes.  
49 intel.com responsibility 
For Intel, social equity means creating a world in which   all people, regardless of their identity or background,  have an equal voice, representation, and access to   opportunities. Our social equity strategy is grounded in  the Intel Global Human Rights Principles and includes  programs, strategies, investments, and policy advocacy  to remove systemic barriers to a fully inclusive workplace  and society. In 2020, we worked with teams across the  company to advance and align our social equity work  across four key areas: people, philanthropy, products,   and policy.   
People: Driving Equity at Intel 
Our social equity strategy begins with leveraging the full  capabilities across Intel to drive equitable change from  the inside out. We are taking actions to make progress  against our 2030 RISE inclusive goals, including adding  new milestone targets in 2020 to increase US represen- tation of African American employees at mid, senior, and  director levels by 30% by the end of 2023.  
We also provide opportunities for our employees to   learn about and take action on social equity issues. A   new Social Equity Speaker Series provides employees  with a safe and supportive platform for sharing,   discussing, and learning about social equity   challenges and opportunities.  
Philanthropy: Catalyzing Change  
Intel and the Intel Foundation are catalyzing change  through strategic, community partnerships and engaging  our employees through skills-based volunteering.   Intel donated  2.2 million in new grants to nonprofit   organizations that are advancing social justice and  anti-racism causes around the world to help address  systemic and root causes of disparities for marginalized  
Social Equity 
Inclusive  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
groups. The organizations were selected based on input  from our Network of Intel African Ancestry and the Intel  Black Leadership Council. In 2020, the Intel Foundation  also initiated a special  500,000 employee donation  match campaign entitled  Standing on the Sidelines Is   Not an Option,  supporting the National Urban League,  the Center for Policing Equity, the NAACP Legal Defense  Fund, and Amnesty International.  
Products: Advancing Equity   Through Technology Solutions 
We re leveraging Intel s technology expertise and part- nerships to unleash the power of data and technology  solutions to advance social equity. Our technologists,  data scientists, and engineers are conducting research  for more inclusive, accessible designs for future prod- ucts. Through the Intel RISE Technology Initiative (IRTI),  beginning in 2021, Intel employees can submit their  ideas for technology projects in collaboration with Intel  customers to positively impact social equity and human  rights. Our teams are also working to prevent algorithmic  bias as part of our focus on Responsible AI practices and  development of inclusive coding language. 
Policy: Taking a Stand for Racial Justice 
Achieving social equity demands a robust public   policy framework. Our Intel Global Social Equity  Policy Principles guide our work with governments  and organizations to build a more equitable world   and advance legislation to combat systemic inequities  impacting employees and communities globally. In early  2021, we pledged  5 million to develop a technology law  and policy center at North Carolina Central University,   a historically Black college or university (HBCU). See   Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy  in this report  to learn more. 
Social Equity and Racial   Justice Collaborations 
Intel has provided both financial and in-kind support  to organizations working to advance social justice and  anti-racism innovations. 
Vera Institute of Justice. Intel and Vera are working  on programs to improve equitable outcomes for all   in the criminal justice system. 
Living Cities. Living Cities and Intel are equipping US  city leaders in the Closing the Gap Network with racial  equity tools and competencies to advance equity across  government policies and functions. 
PolicyLink. Intel and PolicyLink are using data-driven  strategies and policies to drive economic equity in   US cities. Additionally, they are developing corporate  racial equity standards to advance equity as a   business challenge. 
UNESCO. Intel and UNESCO are delivering gender-  transformative digital skills education and developing  inclusive anti-racism educational resources for   
educators around the world. 
Obama Foundation. Through the Obama Leaders  program, Intel is equipping changemakers in Africa,  Asia-Pacific, and Europe with the leadership skills   and resources they need to drive equity innovation   in their communities.   
Greater Houston Community Foundation. Intel is   collaborating with the City of Houston s Complete  Communities Initiative to ensure all Houstonians have  access to quality services, amenities, and opportunities  for economic mobility. 
X-Prize Foundation. Intel and the X-Prize Foundation  
co-developed an X-Prize Racial Equity Alliance to bring  together leaders, experts, and Intel employees to tackle  social and racial equity challenges.  
50 intel.com responsibility 
1 Source:  Rebooting Representation.   
Building a Diverse Technology Industry  
We are committed to supporting the development of a  more diverse technology industry through investments,  collaborative initiatives, and research projects. We are  also focused on inspiring more girls and women and   underrepresented minorities to pursue and succeed   in technology careers through education initiatives,   financial assistance, and internship opportunities. 
Alliance for Global Inclusion and Inclusion Index 
As part of our 2030 RISE commitments, we committed  to drive full inclusion and accessibility across the tech- nology industry by partnering with others to create an  inclusion index with common metrics and collaborative  actions to advance progress. Within the technology   sector, an average of only 11% of senior leadership roles  are held by women, and women of color only make up  4% of the computing workforce.1 One key gap identified  is the lack of consistent and comparable definitions and  data regarding inclusion at the industry level.  
In 2020, we hosted a series of conversations with  individuals representing 19 chief diversity and inclusion  officer (CDIO) teams from across the technology and  adjacent industries to engage in visioning and planning   for DEI activities. The result was the launch in 2021 of   the Alliance for Global Inclusion, a coalition focused on  creating a shared set of diversity and inclusion metrics.  These metrics are based on a global survey launched   by Intel in 2020 to determine the status of diversity   and inclusion progress at 13 major companies. The  survey data forms the coalition s Inclusion Index, which  serves as a benchmark for companies to track diversity  and inclusion improvements, provide information on  current best practices, and highlight opportunities to  improve outcomes across industries. The coalition,  initially comprised of Intel, Dell, Snap Inc., NTT DATA,   and Nasdaq, will work to collectively advance progress   
Inclusive  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
in four critical areas: leadership representation, inclusive  language, inclusive product development, and STEM  readiness in underserved communities. The coalition s  goals include using the index to align on a consistent  systemof measurement to better track progress and  identify areas of improvement. 
Investing in Diverse-Owned Technology Start-Ups  
In June 2015, Intel Capital announced the venture  industry s largest-ever commitment to invest in tech- nology companies led by women and underrepresented  minorities. Initially envisioned as a five-year,  125 million  fund, the Intel Capital Diversity Initiative was expanded in  October 2016 to also invest in start-ups led by entrepre- neurs living with disabilities, US-based entrepreneurs from  the LGBT  community, and US military veterans. In 2020,  approximately 25% of Intel Capital s new venture stage  deals and more than 30% of its new venture stage dollars  committed were in start-ups led by diverse leaders.  
In August 2020, Intel Capital announced a commitment  to double its investments in Black founders over the next  five years, with 15% of our total new deals led by Black  founders. At the end of 2020, 9% of our new venture  deals and 15% of our venture dollars committed were   in companies led by Black founders. Learn more. 
Investing in Pathways to the Technology Industry 
In 2017, we launched a  4.5 million program with HBCUs  aimed at increasing the number of Black and African  American students who pursue electrical engineering,  computer engineering, and computer science fields. Our   partnerships with six HBCUs Howard University, Florida  A M, Tuskegee, Morgan State, North Carolina A T, and  Prairie View A M are yielding results. For example,  Howard University has seen an increase in enrollment in  computer science of 55% and in computer engineering of  47%, and Prairie View has added courses in embedded  systems, cybersecurity, and AI.  
Intel has partnered with the American Indian Science   and Engineering Society (AISES) to expand computer   science education and career readiness in schools in   Arizona, California, and Oregon that serve Native   American students. The Intel Next Generation of   Native American Coders project features a two-  semester course with culturally contextualized lessons,  hands-on independent projects, mentorship, teacher  training, equipment and supplies, and more. The aim   of the initiative is to increase the number of Native   American students in technology and engineering   fields in academia and professionally. Intel committed   1.32 million to the AISES  Growing the Legacy    scholarship program for the 2017-2021 school years   to provide financial support for 40 Native American   university students. 
Intel is a founding member of the Reboot Representation  Tech Coalition, formed and spearheaded by Melinda Gates   incubation company, Pivotal Ventures. The initiative aims  to align existing philanthropic donations and increase  funding to double the number of women of color graduat- ing with computing degrees by 2025. Coalition members  have pledged more than  12 million to reach this goal.  
51 intel.com responsibility 
Intel Chief Supply Chain Officer 1  We recognize certified diverse suppliers as businesses that are at least 51% owned, operated, and controlled by any of the following categories:  
2   Tier 1 suppliers  are companies from which Intel makes direct purchases.  Tier 2 suppliers  are companies from which Intel s tier 1 suppliers make  
women  minorities as recognized by the country where the business was established  veterans military service-disabled veterans  persons who are  lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender  or persons with disabilities.  
direct purchases. 
Supplier Diversity and Inclusion 
Just as we value diversity and inclusion to foster   innovation within Intel, we know that diverse suppliers1  provide new perspectives and solutions to improve the  ways in which Intel operates. Our vision to grow a diverse  and inclusive global supply chain includes increasing our  annual spending with diverse-owned suppliers, as well  as working with others to expand and enable inclusive  sourcing practices across the industry.  
We achieved our 2020 goal of spending  1 billion   annually with diverse suppliers and reached  279   million spending with women-owned businesses globally.  As part of our 2030 RISE goals, we are building on this  foundation to double our annual spending with diverse  suppliers and expand our inclusive sourcing programs  and partnerships to more countries.  
Inclusion of diverse-owned suppliers is built into our   operations and outlined in our Supplier Diversity Policy.  We have integrated requirements for including diverse  suppliers into our supplier bidding, selection, and man- agement processes, and in our Supplier Continuous   Quality Improvement (SCQI) award. We apply these   expectations and requirements to tier 12 suppliers,   and we also expect our non-diverse suppliers to report  their own spending with diverse-owned suppliers and  subcontractors. In 2020, 74 of our top non-diverse   suppliers reported their tier 22 diverse spending, a   15% increase from 2019. We also created a Quick  Start Guide for other companies describing how to   create a supplier diversity program.  
Inclusive  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
2030 Goal: Supplier Diversity  and Inclusion   
Description. Increase global annual spending with  diverse suppliers by 100% to  2 billion.   
Baseline.  1 billion in annual spending with diverse  suppliers as of January 1, 2020. 
Progress in 2020. At the end of 2020, we had   increased our annual spending to  1.2 billion,   advancing us on our path to achieve our 2030 goal.  
Looking Ahead. To help us reach our 2030 goal, we  have set important additional milestones: to spend   500 million annually with women-owned suppliers  outside the US by the end of 2025 and  800 million  annually with minority-owned suppliers globally by  end of 2023, including  250 million with US Black- owned suppliers.  
We put these milestones in place to advance racial  and gender economic equity in light of the issues  highlighted over the past year. We are expanding   opportunities for diverse-owned companies to   compete for new business and increase their   positive impact in their communities. 
  As we continue to increase our   collaborations with suppliers   who are women, minority, LGBT ,  people with disabilities, and   veteran-owned business, we   will be able to harness our   combined intellects to advance  Moore s Law and create   leadership products.   
52 intel.com responsibility 
  Dr. Randhir Thakur,  
Inclusive  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Supplier Feature: Jordan IP Law, LLC 
In 2004, Intel joined more than 100 other corporations to call for  concrete action to promote diversity in the legal profession, in   support of our belief that our interests are best served by legal   representation that reflects the diversity of our employees,   customers, and the communities where we do business. Many   corporations and law firms have made progress since then, and   we believe that Intel s outside counsel roster is among the most  diverse in the US. However, progress has been slow for the legal  profession overall. In an effort to accelerate progress, we adopted   in 2019 what we call the Intel Rule: As of January 1, 2021, Intel will  not retain or use outside law firms in the US that are average or  below average on diversity. Firms will be eligible to do legal work   for Intel only if at least 21% of the firm s US equity partners are  women and at least 10% of the firm s US equity partners are   underrepresented minorities.3  
Based in Washington, DC, Jordan IP Law, LLC (JIPL) is the largest  Black-owned patent law firm in the US. The firm is a certified   Minority Business Enterprise (MBE) and an active member of the  National Association of Minority   Women Owned Law Firms   (NAMWOLF). JIPL is focused exclusively on providing strategic   guidance, counseling, and portfolio management in areas relating   to patent and trademark law. JIPL has provided patent legal services  to Intel since the firm s founding in 2009. Intel has reinforced the  growth of JIPL by providing valuable insight on best practices in  portfolio management and assigning high-priority matters to the  firm. Intel also served as a client reference for JIPL s designation   as a Top 100 MBE by the Capital Region Minority Supplier   Development Council in 2018. 
According to the firm s founder, Del Jordan, operating as a Black- owned law firm has been daunting at times. The challenges have  included overcoming negative stereotypes in a technically complex  field, but the firm continues to push through obstacles. JIPL has  provided critical support to Intel s in-house counsel, innovators, and  business professionals, and JIPL s multicultural workforce makes  the firm a crucial partner in Intel s commitment to diversity. 
3  For this purpose, we define equity partners to include those whose race is  
other than full white Caucasian, and partners who have identified as LGBT ,  disabled, or veterans.  
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Collaborating to Drive Change Globally  
Over the past decade, we have partnered with other companies, NGOs, and governments to create   opportunities for diverse suppliers, including hosting supplier workshops and collaborating on country-  level certification standards. This work has included our partnership with NGOs and certifying bodies,  such as WeConnect International, a global network that connects women-owned businesses to qualified  buyers around the world. In 2019, Intel drove the new Women Business Enterprise Certification in Japan   in partnership with WEConnect International, Accenture, and Johnson   Johnson. During 2020, we   engaged with a number of governments and industry groups to help drive integration of supplier   diversity into public procurement processes, including the UK. We also partnered with organizations   like WeConnect International to deliver virtual workshops to diverse-owned suppliers globally to build  capabilities and increase access to procurement opportunities. In addition, we shared with companies  across other industry sectors our best practices on how to set up or expand supplier diversity programs  and processes globally. 
Learn more about Intel s efforts to create opportunities for diverse-owned businesses around the world  to thrive.  
Intel s Supplier Diversity and Inclusion program grew to 26 countries, and we continue our work with NGOs to identify and certify  potential suppliers.  
United States 
Costa Rica 
Invest in Supplier Diversity 
Brazil South Africa Australia 
Netherlands Ireland 
Around the World 
United Kingdom 
Spain France 
Switzerland 
Malaysia Singapore 
Hong Kong Taiwan 
South Korea China 
53 intel.com responsibility 
Making Technology Fully Inclusive  and Expanding Digital Readiness 
We are committed to our 2030 global challenge to  advance inclusion and accessibility for millions of people  who currently do not have the technology skills or  resources needed to access educational, economic, and  community resources in our increasingly digital economy.  During 2020, we began work to build and scale a number  of programs and collaborations with our customers,  governments, and other stakeholders in the areas of  technology access and online learning, digital skills and  readiness, accessible product design, and technology  applications to advance social equity and human rights.  In 2021, our expanded Intel RISE Technology Initiative  will help accelerate and fund collaborative projects with  Intel customers and other partners in these areas. 
Students at Chandler-Gilbert Community College, part of the Maricopa  Community College District. 
Inclusive  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Expanding Technology Access 
We partnered with schools, ecosystem partners,   local governments, teachers, and device manufacturers   to distribute laptops and bolster connectivity in   communities, providing a solutions-based online   learning approach to a million students globally. In the   US, we provided a remote learning solution to students   in over 15,000 families representing 45 school districts  that serve Title 1 students. Working with First Book,   CDW, and other partners, we launched the Creating  Learning Connections Initiative, providing students and  educators access to critical tools and resources, including  Internet connectivity, technology devices, and hands-on  STEAM learning solutions. For example, the Casa Blanca  Community School on the Gila River Indian Reservation   in Arizona was able to transform learning for its students  during the pandemic with the support of this program.  Learn more.  
Digital Readiness Partnership Programs 
Intel  AI For Youth. Intel launched a comprehensive   artificial intelligence (AI) readiness program, Intel  AI   For Youth, in 2019. Driven in partnership with govern- ments and academic partners worldwide, the program  empowers youth to create their own social impact   projects by enabling them to acquire technical skills   in data science, computer vision, and natural language  processing, as well as social skills focused on AI ethics  and biases, and AI solutions-building. 
As part of our 2030 goals, we are committed to scale the  program in partnership with 30 governments and 30,000  institutions worldwide to empower more than 30 million  people with AI skills training for current and future jobs. 
In 2020, through strong partnerships, we expanded the  Intel AI for Youth program reaching more than 100,000  youths from more than 5,000 institutions in the US,  China, India, Indonesia, South Korea, Singapore, Russia,  the UK, Poland, Germany, and Israel. Participating youths  learned how to create social impact projects solving   various problems on AI. Examples of projects included   Online Class AI Helper,  an AI program that uses a webcam  to monitor students  behavior in remote learning classes   the  Mask Unadopted Protection  project, which sends   reminders to phones of people not wearing COVID-19  masks  and  AI Sign Language Translator,  which helps  people with hearing disabilities by recognizing Polish  sign language (called PJM alphabet letters) in real time  using computer vision technologies. 
Together with partners in government, business,   and academia we set a Guinness World Record for   most users to take an online AI lesson in 24 hours,   as part of the AI for Youth Virtual Symposium. We   also began expansion of the program to address work- force readiness skills. Intel and the Maricopa County  Community College District (MCCCD) launched the first  Intel-designed AI associate degree program. This was   a timely effort, as recent studies show the demand for   AI skills is expected to grow exponentially  a 2020   LinkedIn report noted that AI skills are one of the top   five most in-demand hard skills, and research by the  MCCCD Workforce and Economic Development Office  estimated an increase of 22.4% for these roles by 2029.  In addition, we launched the Intel  Digital Readiness   for Leaders program for government leaders in India,   Poland, and Costa Rica. The program enabled govern- ment leaders and policy makers to learn about a range   of emerging technologies such as AI and the Internet   of Things for good governance and impact.  
54 intel.com responsibility 
During 2021, we are building additional partnerships with  governments and academia worldwide to expand a full  digital readiness portfolio, covering citizens as well as   the current and future workforce for a broader range   of emerging technologies.  
Intel  Future Skills. Using a design-thinking methodology  and hands-on learning approach, the Intel  Future Skills  program gives students the framework needed for a   lifetime of problem solving and discovery through   Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Math (STEAM)  learning. Through the program s learning platform, made  up of over 25 projects with 40 hours of content, students  are challenged with hands-on, real-world innovation   projects that encourage them to think differently, fail   fast, and develop a growth mindset. Our unique model,  
Million Girls Moonshot  
While many efforts have aimed to close gender and racial gaps in  STEM, persistent inequities remain. Substantial progress requires  transformational initiatives, such as the Million Girls Moonshot  (MGM). Through MGM, the Intel Foundation is partnering with   the STEM Next Opportunity Fund (legacy organization of the  Robert N. Noyce Foundation), the Gordon and Betty Moore  Foundation, and the Charles Stewart Mott Foundation to trans- form the trajectory of women and girls in STEM. The movement  primarily focuses on gender, but also seeks to create STEM   gains among diverse racial, ethnic, and socioeconomically   underserved groups. 
The MGM movement builds on the success of the Intel She Will  Connect initiative, which has focused on interventions in middle  school, when girls often decide whether to pursue coursework  essential to technology careers. Since 2017, the Intel Foundation  has invested  3.25 million in grants, with proven results through  positive, hands-on STEM experiences for middle school girls  and their families. Over the next five years, the MGM movement  will expand to reach and collectively engage 1 million more girls  through innovative, high-quality STEM capacity in all 50 US  states. MGM is a first-of-its-kind movement on a national scale. 
Inclusive  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
which combines technical and social emotional learning,  enables students to recognize and understand the people  they are creating for by building essential empathy and  communication skills. In 2020, Intel volunteers delivered  hundreds of Intel Future Skills project kits to Oregon  schools, where youth picked them up to keep their cre- ativity going during the pandemic.  
Accessible Product Design  
Technology is an increasingly critical part of everyone s  lives, and accessible technology allows people to acquire  education, have a career, use government services, make  purchases, pursue hobbies, and so much more. Access to  information and communications technologies is defined  as a basic human right in the United Nations Conventions  On The Rights Of Persons With Disabilities.  
Our goal is that every client computing platform we  produce expands accessibility for more people than the  platform before, with experiences designed in collabo- ration with people with disabilities. By 2030, all Intel user  experience teams will have adopted inclusive design and  research processes with relevant operational research  support. In 2020, our teams began projects exploring  accessible computing usages such as assistive touch   to speech (providing spatial awareness for blind or   visually impaired computer users) and indoor way-  finding (providing navigation assistance for blind or   visually impaired people in public spaces).  
An artificial intelligence (AI) researcher and his team  designed an Intel-powered, voice-activated backpack  that can help people with visual impairments navigate  and perceive the world around them. The backpack helps  detect common challenges such as traffic signs, hanging  obstacles, crosswalks, moving objects and changing   elevations. Learn more. 
Technology to Advance Social Equity 
Intel joined a coalition aimed at advancing the One  Million Connected Devices Now movement and pro- viding  25 million to address the digital divide and  COVID-19-related challenges to ensure students can   continue to learn virtually. The coalition is led by Procter  and Gamble and also includes Dell, Microsoft, Fidelity,  Dow Jones, PNC Bank, PolicyLink, Walmart, and Comcast. 
To also help address remote learning challenges during  the pandemic, the city of Houston worked closely with  Intel, Microsoft, and T-Mobile to bridge the gap between  students and their education. Some 25% of students in  Texas don t have access to technology and 20% of   Houston students live below the poverty line. The  support provided by Intel helped the city understand  educational and community needs to bring digital skills  and training to students and communities. Working with  Intel s strategic partners, students and their families who  qualified received T-Mobile Internet connectivity to the  greater community and resources.  
55 intel.com responsibility 
Sustainable 
Sustainable  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
We aspire to be a global leader in sustainability and enable our customers  
and others to reduce their environmental impact through our actions and  
technology. Our long-standing commitment to environmental leadership  
helps us achieve efficiency, reduce costs, and respond to the needs of   
our customers and community stakeholders. We invest in environmental   
projects and set company-wide environmental targets, seeking to drive   
reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, energy use, water use, and   
waste generation. We also work with others to expand the technology   
 handprint  to accelerate the application of technology to reduce   
climate impact across the global economy. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
1  Based on average US household energy usage figures published by the   
US Energy Information Administration. 
7.1B gallons of water saved 
We conserved 7.1 billion gallons of water internally and  invested in water restoration projects that restored more  than 1.3 billion gallons during 2020. These both advanced  us toward our goal of net positive water use, resulting in  90% of fresh water usage returned or restored in 2020. 
82% green power globally  
In 2020, we significantly increased our renewable energy  supply and purchases, from 71% to 82% globally, including  100% in the US, Europe, Israel, and Malaysia. Over the last  five years, we ve purchased more than 26 billion kWh of  green power, enough to power more than 2.4 million   US households for one  year.1 
5% total waste to landfill   
During 2020, we sent approximately 5% of our total waste  to landfill and continue to work toward our goal of zero  total waste to landfill by 2030. At the end of 2020, circular  economy practices were applied to 63% of our manufacturing  waste streams via reuse, recovery, or recycling. 
56 intel.com responsibility 
Through conservation, strong collaboration, and   application of technology, we have long worked to   reduce the environmental impact of our operations.   We have also partnered with governments, other compa- nies, our suppliers, and nonprofits to help others reduce  their own environmental impacts. Our 2030 RISE goals  help answer the call for even more urgent action by  expanding our efforts to achieve carbon neutral  computing to further address climate change on a  global scale.  
Sustainable  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Sustainable: Our Approach 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Our new goals include achieving net   positive water use, 100% renewable power,  zero total waste to landfill, and additional  absolute carbon emissions reductions, even   as we continue to expand our manufacturing  capacity. They also include creating a collec- tive approach to reduce emissions across   the semiconductor industry, increasing the  use of technology to reduce climate impact.  
We recognize that solving the world s   environmental challenges requires broad,  collective action action that starts with  individuals. For that reason, we have long  encouraged our employees  passion for   the environment by supporting sustainability  projects within the company and our local  communities. Since 2008, we have also  linked executive and employee compen- sation to corporate responsibility factors,  including environmental metrics related   to energy and water conservation, waste   reduction, and completion of water resto- ration projects.  
We believe that Intel s position in the   technology ecosystem, our wide range   of technology, and the passion of our   employees will enable us to form critical   partnerships, develop new approaches,   and make significant progress over the   next decade and beyond.  
Zero Total Waste to Landfill. Achieve zero total waste to landfill and  implement circular economy strategies for 60% of our manufacturing  waste streams in partnership with our suppliers. 
2030 RISE:  Sustainable Goals,   Initiatives, and Global Challenges 
GLOBAL CHALLENGE:  Achieve carbon neutral computing to address climate change. 
TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY INITIATIVES: 
Sustainable Manufacturing. Create a collective approach to reducing  emissions for the semiconductor manufacturing industry and increase  the use of technology to reduce climate impact in global manufacturing.   
Sustainable Chemistry. Enable greener and circular chemistry strategies  across the technology industry value chain by transforming chemical  footprint methodology.  
OPERATIONAL AND SUPPLY CHAIN GOALS: 
100% Green Power. Achieve 100% renewable energy use across our  global manufacturing operations.   
Energy Conservation. Conserve 4 billion kWh of energy. 
Emissions Reductions. Drive a 10% reduction in our absolute Scope 1  and 2 carbon emissions as we grow, informed by climate science. 
Product Energy Efficiency. Increase product energy efficiency 10x for  Intel client and server microprocessors to reduce our Scope 3 emissions. 
Net Positive Water. Achieve net positive water use by conserving 60  billion gallons of water and funding external water restoration projects. 
57 intel.com responsibility 
Environmental Management 
Unlike many companies in the electronics industry that  outsource their production, we manufacture the majority  of our products in our own wafer fabrication facilities.   As a result, Intel s direct environmental footprint is more  significant than those of our  fab-less  competitors,  whose manufacturing footprints sit in their supply chains.  This business model also gives us a unique advantage  when it comes to integrating sustainable practices,   as we have direct control over manufacturing processes. 
Governance and Management  
The Intel Code of Conduct, Climate Change Policy,   Global Water Policy, and Environmental, Health, and  Safety Policy guide our sustainability strategy and help   us set goals. We consider environmental impact when   we select sites, design buildings, set performance   levels for manufacturing tools, and establish goals   for production processes.  
For over a decade, Intel has maintained multi-site, third-  party-verified ISO 14001 registration to evaluate the  effectiveness of our environmental management system.  Our Corporate Energy management system follows the  ISO 50001 Energy Management standard  to date, we  have received third-party ISO 50001 accreditation for   five of our 12 manufacturing sites. To minimize our   emissions of particulate matter (PM) including particulate  matter less than 2.5 microns (PM2.5), volatile organic  compounds (VOCs), hazardous air pollutants (HAPs),  nitrogen oxides (NOx), and carbon monoxide (CO), we   use emissions reduction strategies, including abatement  equipment such as thermal oxidizers, wet electrostatic  precipitators (WESPs), wet scrubbers, and ultra-low   NOx burners. 
Sustainable  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
We also regularly complete environmental, health,   and safety (EHS) program self-assessments to validate  site-level EHS compliance. In addition, our senior   corporate EHS professionals partner with legal counsel   to complete internal audits related to compliance, man- agement systems, and business risk at various Intel sites.  The audits include in-depth documentation and records  reviews, interviews with site leadership, and physical  inspections related to EHS compliance. 
Key to our chemical management strategy is a   comprehensive review of materials, which starts with a  regulatory search of all applicable chemical regulations  and use restrictions. The search includes Intel-specific  restrictions (which often go beyond regulatory require- ments), and local and global regulations. We then identify  the environmental and safety controls needed to protect  personnel and the environment during a chemical s   intended use. In addition, in January 2021 we launched  new chemical management software systems to improve  employee access to hazard information and increase  the efficiency and quality of EHS review of new chemical  introductions. 
On an annual basis, we report Intel s emissions, waste  transfers off-site, and treatment of reportable chemicals  in the US in accordance with state and US Environmental  Protection Agency (EPA) regulations. 
To better understand how Intel compares to others in  our industry, we regularly benchmark our environmental  performance with semiconductor and other large compa- nies. To build a supportive policy environment for private  sector leadership on climate change, Intel participates   in organizations such as the Center for Climate and   Energy Solutions (C2ES), the American Council for   an Energy-Efficient Economy (ACEEE), and the   
Intel s Ocotillo manufacturing campus in Chandler, Arizona.  
EHS Compliance Reporting Data 
Alliance to Save Energy (ASE). We also engage with   our suppliers on sustainability issues to help them   reduce their climate and water impacts, reduce waste   and identify circular solutions, advance green  chemistry and footprinting practices, and identify   collaboration opportunities.  
To learn more, see  Public Policy and Political   Accountability  and   Supply Chain Responsibility    in the Our Business section of this report. 
Year Number of NOVs Fines or Fees 
2017 11  8,075 
2018 8  1,600 
2020 9  7,086 
In 2020, officials made 130 visits (including audits and inspections)  to Intel sites across the globe, including 46 health and safety agency  inspections, 30 fire protection agency inspections, and 54 environmental  agency inspections. Intel received five environmental Notices of Violation  (NOVs) and four fire protection-related NOVs in 2020. Details on NOVs  are provided in the Appendix of this report, and previous NOV data can  be accessed on our Report Builder website. Senior management reviews  all NOVs to ensure that root cause corrective actions for all identified  concerns are put in place and tracked to completion. 
58 intel.com responsibility 
Sustainable  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Linking Compensation and  Financing to Environmental  Performance 
Our employees play key roles in enabling Intel  to achieve our 2030 sustainability goals. Since  2008, we have linked a portion of executive   and employee compensation to corporate  responsibility factors. Our 2020 bonus included  environmental-related metrics aligned to our  2030 goals focused on climate and water,  including: conserving more than 5 billion   gallons of water in our operations, restoring  more than 1 billion gallons of water to our  local watersheds, and increasing use of   renewable energy to 75% globally. We   exceeded each of the targets, conserving   7.1 billion gallons and restoring 1.3 billion  gallons of water, and reaching 82% renewable  energy use globally. In 2021, environmental  metrics include conserving 125 million kWh  of energy and 7.5 billion gallons of water  in our operations, and restoring 1.5 billion   gallons of water to local watersheds. For  more information, see our 2021 Proxy  Statement and the Our Business and   Inclusive sections of this report. 
In early 2021, we also integrated sustainability  metrics into our financing activities for the first  time. We entered into a  5 billion, five-year  variable-rate revolving credit facility which,   if drawn, is expected to be used for general  corporate purposes. The interest rate is subject  to adjustment if we achieve, or fail to achieve,  certain annual energy and water conservation  targets established to maintain our progress  toward our 2030 corporate responsibility   goals on energy and water. We believe that   at the time of closure, it was the largest   sustainability-linked credit facility executed  to date by a technology company. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Smart and Green Building Practices  
Our engineers have long incorporated green design into the new  construction and renovation of our facilities, which helps us achieve  efficiencies in energy consumption, water use, and recycling. We  also partner with companies and nonprofits to expand the number  of manufacturers implementing green building practices. We have  achieved LEED certification for more than 17.9 million square feet  of space in 50 buildings. Since 2015, we have achieved LEED Silver  certification on one building, LEED Gold on six, and LEED Platinum  on three buildings. We have incorporated many innovative energy  conservation and heat recovery technologies into our new buildings,  along with water conservation and recovery technologies for our   new fabs and offices.  
We continue to install smart lighting systems in our buildings.   At our warehouse in Malaysia, our smart lighting system upgrade   resulted in 111% brighter floor space and 62% lower energy bills.   The custom-designed Internet of Things lighting solution, which  includes 400 dimmable lights, is powered by Intel Atom  processors  and Intel  Quark  microcontrollers, which feed data into an energy  management unit. Calf-level motion sensors at the entrance and   exit of each warehouse aisle trigger overhead parabolic lights.   When warehouse employees walk or drive by in carts to collect   items from storage bins, the lights turn on. The lighting solution  is now commercialized and available to customers worldwide. 
Intel also partners with a robust ecosystem of equipment manufac- turers and systems integrators to deliver a new generation of smart  building solutions built on interoperable, secure, and scalable Internet  of Things technologies and advanced data analytics at the network  edge. Read more about smart buildings with Intel  Internet of   Things technologies. 
Product Ecology 
Intel s vision is to avoid the use of substances in our products that  could harm the environment or human health, and to ensure that  we act responsibly and with caution. Intel material restrictions are  based on consideration for legal requirements, international treaties  and conventions, and specific market requirements. 
For more than a decade, we have collaborated with   suppliers and customers to work toward eliminating  lead and halogenated flame retardants from our prod- ucts. While legislation does not require the elimination  of halogenated flame retardants, Intel has played a role  in facilitating industry consensus around low-halogen  practices. We engage with industry committees on the  development of materials declaration, test methods,   and eco-design standards. Intel leads several global  environmental regulation influencing and harmonization  efforts within multiple industry trade associations.   We also meet the requirements of the European   Union s Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and   Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) regulation and comply  with applicable product ecology regulations. When   we must use hazardous materials, we take steps to   ensure that they are handled safely from the time they  enter our operations until they are properly disposed   of or recycled. 
Managing electronic waste (e-waste) such as computers,  monitors, and phones is a global concern. Most of our  products including motherboards, microprocessors,   and other components fall within the scope of e-waste  laws when they are incorporated into a final product,   generally by an original equipment manufacturer (OEM).  As such, we work with OEMs, retailers, customers, and  others to identify shared solutions for used electronics.  We also take steps to integrate environmental consid- erations into the design of our products to minimize  environmental impacts of electronics at their end of life. 
The Electronic Product Environmental Assessment  Tool (EPEAT) rating system is designed to help purchasers  in the public and private sectors evaluate, compare, and  select electronic products based on environmental   leadership and corporate social responsibility attributes.   We support the development and use of EPEAT by par- ticipating in EPEAT standards development committees  and providing information about EPEAT conformance to  channel partners and customers. 
59 intel.com responsibility 
Climate and Energy 
Climate change is a serious environmental, economic,  and social challenge. We focus on reducing climate risks  related to our direct climate  footprint  the emissions  resulting from our own operations, our supply chain,   and the marketing and use of our products. We also   focus on increasing our  handprint  identifying ways  that Intel technologies can help others reduce their   footprints, including Internet of Things solutions that  enable intelligence in machines, buildings, supply chains,  and factories, and make electrical grids smarter, safer,   and more efficient. Our Climate Change Policy outlines  our formal position on climate change and our policy  advocacy principles. 
Reducing Our Operational Carbon Footprint 
For over two decades, Intel has set aggressive green- house gas (GHG) reduction goals to conserve energy and  minimize air emissions. Since 2000, our Scope 1 and 2  emissions have decreased by about 28% on an absolute  basis, even as we expanded our manufacturing capacity  significantly. We collaborate with others in the semicon- ductor and other manufacturing industries to identify  new and innovative approaches to reduce emissions. For  more information, see  Sustainable Manufacturing and  Chemistry Initiatives  later in this section. 
Energy Conservation 
Reducing operational energy use is core to Intel s overall  climate strategy and our 2030 goals. We conserved more  than 4.5 billion kWh of energy between 2012 through the  end of 2019, also resulting in cumulative savings of more  than  500 million.  
Our energy management systems follow the international  ISO 50001:2018 Energy Management System standard.  Although energy conservation opportunities are present  
1  For detail on our Normalized Production Index, see  About this Report    
Sustainable  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
in the Appendix. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Billion Kilowatt Hours 
across the spectrum of Intel s manufacturing operations,  we have identified strategic investment areas in efficient  lighting, chilled water cooling, compressed air, and heat  recovery and electrification. Read the blog.  
Energy Use 
Our 2020 absolute energy use increased 11% compared to 2019 due  to our manufacturing growth around the world. In 2020, approximately  83% of our global energy use was grid energy (electricity). 
2030 Goal: Energy Conservation 
Description. Achieve cumulative energy savings   of 4 billion kWh from 2020 to 2030. 
Baseline. Progress measured from baseline of   Jan. 1, 2020. 
Progress in 2020. In 2020, we invested in projects   that enabled us to conserve approximately   161 million kWh of energy. 
Looking Ahead. In 2021 we plan to invest in new   projects that will conserve an additional 125 million  kWh of energy.  
2020 2016 2018 2019 2017 
Electricity Diesel Fuel 
Natural Gas Liquefied Petroleum Gas 
Energy Use   Normalized 
Normalized Production Index  
(Year 2015   100)1 
Alignment with TCFD 
We have leveraged the framework developed by the Task  Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)   to communicate our approach to climate governance,  strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets.   In terms of governance and strategy, we follow an   integrated approach to addressing climate change,   with multiple teams responsible for managing climate-  related activities, initiatives, and policies, including   manufacturing and operations, government and public  affairs, supply chain, and product teams. Senior executives  and the Board s Corporate Governance and Nominating  Committee review strategies and progress toward goals.   
We describe our overall risk management processes in   our 2021 Proxy Statement, and we describe our climate-  related risks and opportunities within this report  in our  Climate Change Policy  in the  Risk Factors  section of   our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K  and in our most   recent CDP Climate Change survey, which is available   on our Report Builder website. Regarding metrics and  goals, for two decades we have set aggressive GHG   reduction goals, and we continue to build on this through  our new 2030 climate goals. We employ a variety of   climate-related assessments and scenarios across   multiple aspects of our business  however, we have not   yet completed a formal climate-related scenario analysis   in line with TCFD guidelines. In 2020, we continued to  assess approaches for incorporating climate scenario  analysis into our existing risk and opportunity assessment  processes and plan to conduct a formal scenario analysis   in 2021. 
A more detailed mapping of our climate disclosures  aligned with the TCFD and Sustainability Accounting   Standards Board (SASB) framework is included in   the Appendix. 
60 intel.com responsibility 
Million Metric Tonnes CO2e 
Scope 1   2 GHG Emissions 
Our combined Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) GHG emissions  remained roughly flat on an absolute basis in 2020 to the 2019 baseline,  even with manufacturing growth. With the kick-off of our 2030 goal, we  refined our GHG inventory in 2019 and 2020, including adding sources  that were previously considered insignificant and changes to global  warming potentials. 2019 figures have been updated to reflect this. 
Our emissions calculations are based on Global Reporting Initiative  Standards, the World Resources Institute World Business Council for  Sustainable Development s The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate  Accounting and Reporting Standard, and internal criteria defined by Intel  management. Additional GHG emissions reporting is publicly available in  our CDP questionnaire response on our Report Builder website. 
Sustainable  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
2030 Goal: Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 
Description. Drive a 10% reduction in our absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from 2020 to 2030.  
Baseline. The percent reduction will be measured from our 2019 full-year emissions. Our combined Scope 1 and Scope 2  GHG emissions in 2019 were 2.88 million metric tonnes of CO2e.  
Progress in 2020. Through the end of 2020, we maintained Scope 1 and 2 emissions roughly flat to the 2019 baseline,  even with significant manufacturing growth.  
Looking Ahead. In 2021, we will continue to take action on emissions reduction strategies focused on emissions abate- ment, continued investments in renewable electricity, process and equipment optimization, and energy conservation. 
2020 2016 2018 2019 2017 
Scope 1: Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) Scope 2 (Electricity   Market-Based) 
Scope 1: Combustion 
Scope 1: Other 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Scope 1 2 Emissions    Normalized 
Normalized Production Index  
(Year 2015   100) 
Intel GHG Emissions   Where Are We Headed?    Scope 1   2 GHG Emissions 
We have tracked our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions over the past  two decades against a science-based reduction target of 80% from  2000 levels by 2050. In recent years, our absolute GHG emissions have  increased due to significant growth. Since 2000, our Scope 1 and 2  emissions have decreased by about 28% on an absolute basis, even as  we expanded our manufacturing capacity significantly. We are committed  to driving reductions through our 2030 RISE goals, as well as through  collaboration with others in the semiconductor and other manufacturing  industries. For more information, see  Sustainable Manufacturing and  Chemistry Initiatives  later in this section.  
Scope 1 2 GHG Emissions 
Million Metric Tonnes CO2e 
2030 2010 2020 2000 
Scope 1  2 GHG (Market-Based) Emissions 
IPCC Reduction Target (80% from 2020) 
2020 GHG Emissions Reported by Category   (metric tonnes of CO2e) 
Scope Emissions Notes 
Scope 1 (Direct)  Emissions 1,973,000 
Scope 2 (Indirect,  Electricity)  909,000 
Scope 1 and 2 Total 2,882,000 
Scope 3 Total 29,866,000 Indirect value chain. 
1  Location-based method Scope 2 emissions (does not account for any  renewable energy purchases)   3,700,000 metric tonnes CO2e year.  
2  Market-based method includes renewable purchases. Location- 
based method emissions (does not account for any renewable energy  purchases)   253,000 metric tonnes of CO2e year.  
Leased Vehicles  and Commuting 296,000 Employee leased vehicles   and commuting. 
Logistics and  Distribution 189,000 Upstream and downstream  transport and distribution. 
Employee Business  Travel 24,000 Air travel, car rentals,   and hotel stays. 
Supply Chain 4,484,000 
Capital Goods 93,000 
Fuel and Energy  Related Activities 95,000 
Waste Generated  in Operations 7,000 
Product Energy  Usage 24,407,000 
Processing of  Sold Products 271,000 
Manufacturing process,  onsite fuel combustion,  refrigerants, onsite fleet  air travel 
Market-based method 1   includes renewable energy  purchases. 
Represents the 2020  estimate based on key  suppliers  2020 CDP Climate  Change Questionnaire  information. 
Extraction, production, and  transport of capital goods  purchased. 
Impacts related to  extraction, production,  and transportation of fuels  and energy purchased, not  already included in Scope 1  or 2. Market-based method.2 
Disposal and treatment  of waste generated in our  operations. 
Represents the GHG  emissions of the product  lifetime (5,596,000 metric  tonnes of CO2e annualized). 
Processing of intermediate  products sold to down- stream manufacturers. 
61 intel.com responsibility 
2  Based on average US household energy usage figures published by the  
Renewable and Alternative Energy 
In addition to conserving energy, we invest in purchasing  green power and on-site alternative energy projects that  provide power directly to Intel buildings. Over the last  five years, Intel s renewable energy supply and renew- able energy attribute purchases have totaled more than  26 billion kWh of green power, enough to power more  than 2.4 million US households for one year,2 including  7.2 billion kWh purchased in 2020.  
Over the last decade, Intel s alternative energy installations  and our installed capacity have grown exponentially. We  now have more than 100 alternative energy installations  generating over 50,000 kW of green power across 23  Intel campuses, with an additional 15 installations under  construction. The installations use 22 different technology  applications, such as solar hot and cooling water systems,  solar electric photovoltaic-covered parking lots, and mini  bio-energy, geothermal energy, and micro wind turbine  array systems.  
These on-site projects, which include pilots of innovative  technology applications, help us displace grid-supplied,  carbon-intensive energy sources and identify future   installation and technology opportunities for both   Intel and the broader alternative energy market. When  installed, our projects are often the largest corporate   on-site projects of their type in a country or region.  
Sustainable  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
US Energy Information Administration. 
In September 2020, we also   became a member of RE100,   a global coalition of businesses   committed to 100% renewable   
electricity use. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Recent Green Power Projects 
In 2020, we implemented several renewable and   alternative energy projects as part of our commitment   to achieve 100% renewable energy across our global  operations. For example, our Ocotillo campus began   receiving power from East Line Solar, a 100-megawatt  solar facility in Coolidge, Arizona, and we enabled our  utility provider to enter into an agreement to develop  a new 138-megawatt solar facility in Wasco County,  Oregon. In addition, we installed Intel s largest solar farm  outside the US, an 8,877-panel array that blankets the  car park and building roofs at Intel s campus in Kulim,  Malaysia. The project will add about 2.9 megawatts of  solar energy to the site s existing 0.9 MW capacity.  
2030 Goal: Renewable Energy 
Description. Achieve 100% renewable energy across   our global operations, including manufacturing.  
Baseline. As of January 1, 2020, we had reached 100%  renewable energy use for our US and European opera- tions, 50% for our Israel operations, and 71% globally. 
Progress in 2020.We continued our 100% green   power purchase commitment for our US and European  operations, reached 100% renewable energy in Israel  and Malaysia, and 82% globally by the end of 2020.  In September 2020, we also became a member of  RE100, a global coalition of businesses committed  to 100% renewable electricity use. 
Looking Ahead. We will continue to explore additional  locations to increase electric power purchase from   renewable sources. 
The solar installation at the Intel chip and assembly test manufacturing  facility at Kulim Hi Tech Park in Malaysia. 
Green Power Purchasing 
For more than a decade, Intel has been one of the top  voluntary corporate purchasers of green power in the  US EPA s Green Power Partnership (GPP) program. In  addition to generating on-site and off-site green power  and purchasing green power from our utility suppliers,  we purchase green attributes from multiple sources of  generation. These include wind, solar, low-impact hydro- electric, and geothermal, which are certified and verified  by nonprofit validation accreditors such as the Center  for Resource Solutions  Green-e program to meet GPP  program requirements.  
Our approach to green power and alternative energy  investments has been to reduce our own carbon   footprint while encouraging others to take similar   actions. We are encouraged by actions we have seen   over the past decade by companies, investors,   utilities, and governments to increase commitments   and investments in renewable energy supplies and   apply new technologies. 
62 intel.com responsibility 
Each new generation of products offer higher performance  and improved energy efficiency compared to previous  generations. Building energy efficiency into our products  not only reduces our scope 3 GHG emissions, but also  presents an opportunity to create value for our customers  by helping them lower their scope 2 GHG emissions,   energy use, and overall environmental impact. 
Over the course of 2020, Intel worked on energy-efficiency  initiatives and has made substantial progress with   Modern Standby to replace traditional system sleep   and idle states. Intel achieved 100% adoption of Modern  Standby on notebook PC designs using 11th Generation  Intel  Core  (TGL-U) processors. The transition of desktop  PCs to Modern Standby has also begun and will continue  to ramp up in 2021. 
Intel announced the Intel  Evo  Platform (aka Project  Athena), a multi-year innovation program to help the PC  ecosystem create advanced laptops that meet ambitious  key experience indicators, including those related to  battery life. To be verified through the program, devices  must be co-engineered, tuned, and tested with Intel   to show they have met or exceeded among other   requirements certain power efficiency and fast-charging  capabilities. Intel announced the first wave of Intel  Evo   
Sustainable  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Product Energy Efficiency 
We have estimated the GHG emissions due to energy consumption by Intel  processors sold in 2020. The annual and lifetime  emissions of Intel processors when used in customers  compute applications (i.e., server, desktop, notebook and workstation)  equate to approximately 5,596,000 and 24,407,000 metric tonnes of CO2e, respectively.  
The increase in annual and lifetime emissions compared with 2019 is driven primarily by continuous improvements in our  calculation methodology for product energy usage. Refinements for 2020 included client mode weightings based on ENERGY  STAR updates, a longer server processor lifetime based on published data, expansion of new device categories to include select  workstation processors, and updating server processor annualized energy consumption calculations to better reflect real world  server utilization in data centers. 
See Achieving Carbon Neutral Computing later in this section for more information on Intel s collaborations with our   customers and other stakeholders on reducing climate and energy impacts through technology.  
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
verified designs with more than 20 laptop designs from  our partners.  
Intel collaborated with the technology industry and the  California Energy Commission to successfully influence  adoption of new technologies in the computers and   computer monitors standard that were not available   at the time of the previously completed standard.   Working with the European Commission and other   stakeholders on EU Lot 3 Computers regulation revision,  Intel is collaborating with DIGITALEUROPE to characterize  a new software tool for PC active mode energy efficiency  labeling recommendations. In China and South Korea,   Intel is working with government policymakers to influ- ence the direction of the computers standards currently  under development.  
For server energy efficiency, Intel collaborated with   technology industry consortia and European Standard- ization Organizations to support development of new  harmonized standards in support of EU Lot 9 server  regulation already in effect. In China, as part of industry  consortia we are working with China National Institute of  Standardization (CNIS) to agree on a workable solution  for a China server energy efficiency standard, in line   with international best practices.  
2030 Goal: Product Energy   Efficiency 
Description. Increase product energy efficiency 10X   for Intel client and server microprocessors to reduce   our Scope 3 emissions. 
Baseline. Progress on the client component of our  product energy efficiency goal is measured using   SPEC CPU2017 Integer Rate benchmark and Display   On Idle Power using an end of 2019 baseline. Desktop  and notebook product efficiencies will be reported   together as a single number through a weighted   average of desktop and notebook processor sales   volumes. Progress on the data center component of   our product energy efficiency goal is measured using  Server Efficiency Rating Tool (SERT) of Intel and   or OEM commercial systems, using an end of   2019 baseline. 
Progress in 2020. Client   On Track. In 2020, 11th   Generation Intel  Core  processors achieved 1.5X   over our 2019 baseline exceeding our internal goal   of 1.2X. Servers   Based on Intel s product reporting  criteria for 2030 energy efficiency goals, there was   no significant high-volume server platform launched   in 2020.  
Looking Ahead. For 2021, we plan to report on   server progress toward the 2030 goals based   on newly launched 3rd Generation Intel  Xeon    Scalable processors (code-named  Ice Lake )   and client progress based on our next-generation  processor code-named  Alder Lake.  
63 intel.com responsibility 
1  Based on average US household water usage figures published by the  
US Environmental Protection Agency. 
Water Stewardship 
Semiconductor fabrication requires significant water use.  By responsibly managing our water use, guided by our  Global Water Policy, we can meet our business needs as  well as those of our communities. In 2020, we returned  and restored approximately 90% of our water withdrawals  to our communities through municipal water treatment  operations and restoration in local watersheds enabled  by project funding.   
Our water strategy has three main objectives: conserve  water used in our operations, collaborate on water   initiatives with local communities, and create technology  solutions to help others reinvent how they use and   conserve water. As a part of our 2030 RISE goals, we   aim to achieve net positive water use by conserving   60 billion gallons of water (cumulative from 2020) and  funding external water projects that will restore more  fresh water than we consume to our local watersheds.  
We estimate that our water conservation efforts saved  approximately 7.1 billion gallons of water in 2020. We  also completed new projects in 2020 that we estimate  will save more than 700 million gallons annually, once  operational. Over the last 10 years, our water conserva- tion efforts have saved approximately 37 billion gallons  of water, enough to sustain over 337,000 US homes for  one year.1 
Sustainable  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
We will achieve our  goal of net positive  water use when: 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
communities or environment 
Water from operations   treated and returned to   
During 2020, we continued to fund water restoration  projects benefiting the watersheds that we impact   and the communities where we operate, including   new projects that support water resources of Arizona,  Oregon, New Mexico, Texas, India, and Costa Rica.   
See details about our water footprint by location and  water risk assessment in the Appendix. Additional infor- mation is also available in our most recent CDP Water  Security report posted on our Report Builder website. 
2030 Goal: Net Positive   Water Use 
Description. Achieve net positive water use by   conserving 60 billion gallons of water and funding   water projects that restore more fresh water than we  consume to our local watersheds. 
Baseline. Progress measured from baseline of   Jan. 1, 2020. 
Progress in 2020. We conserved 7.1 billion gallons of  water internally and invested in water restoration proj- ects that restored more than 1.3 billion gallons during  2020. These both advanced us toward our 2030 goal  of net positive water, resulting in 90% of fresh water  usage that was returned and restored. 
Looking Ahead. In 2021 we expect to conserve an   additional 7.5 billion gallons of water in our operations,  and enable restoration of 1.5 billion gallons of water to  local watersheds. 
through watershed  
Water restored  
Water coming in  from fresh water  
Billions of Gallons 
Water Usage and Conservation 
Our 2020 absolute water use increased 10% as we continued to grow  and expand manufacturing output. We increased our water conservation  from 2019 to 2020 by more than 61%, due to significant investments  in water conservation projects. We define water withdrawals, or water  usage, as total gallons of incoming fresh water (i.e., potable water) used.   Operations  includes all manufacturing and non-manufacturing sites   with 2,000 or more employees where Intel has operational control.  
Net Positive Water 
Billions of Gallons of Fresh Water 
2020 2016 2018 2019 2017 
Water Restored (Watershed Projects) 
Water Returned (Wastewater Discharge) 
Water Withdrawals (Usage) 
Water Conserved 
2020 2016 2018 2019 2017 
77% 86% 90% 90% 
9.3 10.1 11.1 
Remaining Gap (Water Consumption) 
% Progress Toward Net Positive  Water Goal (Returned   Restored) 
Water Withdrawals   Normalized  
64 intel.com responsibility 
Normalized Production Index  
(Year 2015   100) 
Water Conservation and Restoration 
Below are examples of water conservation and restoration  projects Intel recently implemented or funded as part of  our commitment to achieve net positive water use: 
Our Ronler Acres facility implemented ultra-pure water  efficiency projects in our factories by optimizing or elim- inating bypass flows. We are now implementing similar  projects at our other factory sites. We estimate that we  will achieve total savings of 375 million gallons during  2021, increasing to 625 million gallons per year by 2025. 
During 2020, we made significant progress in construction  and operation of our on-site water reclaim facilities. These  innovative water treatment plants allow Intel to treat  and reuse water within our operations in systems   such as cooling towers and scrubbers, resulting in a  substantial increase in water conservation. Our Oregon  water recycling facility, for example, treated and reused  approximately 2.4 billion gallons of water during 2020.  
   Ronler Acres reclaim project, located in Hillsboro, Oregon. 
Sustainable  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Travis County, Texas riparian forest planting project. 
Dyavasandra Lake Restoration   CLEAN, International.  India, the second most populous country in the world,  is facing water scarcity. Many of Bangalore s lakes have  vanished and groundwater levels have dropped signifi- cantly. CLEAN International and local partner SayTrees  are implementing a lake restoration project to address  water scarcity at Lake Dyavasandra. The project includes  increasing the capacity of the degraded lake to promote  groundwater recharge and rejuvenate the lake, which  will provide habitat benefits and improved water quality  through natural wetland filtration. The project also   includes planting 1,500 trees and creating an outdoor  space for local community members.  
Deer Creek Floodplain Enhancement Project     McKenzie Watershed Alliance. Deer Creek, a tributary of  the McKenzie River within the Willamette River Basin in  Oregon, delivers drinking water to the area and provides  important habitat for numerous fish species. This project  reconnected and restored natural flow to the entire valley  to re-establish physical, chemical, and biological processes  that support a healthy and resilient ecosystem.  
Colorado River Indian Tribes Drought Contingency project in Arizona.  
Travis County Floodplain Reforestation Project     TreeFolks. Healthy riparian forested areas provide   natural water quality improvements by filtering   pollutants, shading streams, and stabilizing stream   banks, as well as wildlife habitat and carbon sequestration.  Many historically forested areas in Travis County, Texas  have been degraded by grazing and become barren or  overgrown with invasive species. This project supports  the planting and maintenance of healthy trees on approx- imately four acres, in collaboration with landowners and  the City of Austin.  
Colorado River Indian Tribes Drought Contingency   Project   Audubon Arizona and National Audubon   Society. The Colorado River Indian Tribes (CRIT) have  lands that stretch 56 miles of the length the Colorado  River, and hold 720,000 acre-feet of water rights for use   on their reservation. As part of the Arizona Drought   Contingency Plan (DCP), the CRIT is leasing water   typically used for farm irrigation and leaving it in the   river to support Lake Mead water levels. The project will  reduce the likelihood of water shortage declarations and  play a key role in helping Arizona comply with its DCP  system conservation commitments. 
For more information on these and other projects, visit  our Water Restoration website. 
65 intel.com responsibility 
1 Intel defines zero waste to landfill as less than 1%. 
Waste and Circular Economy Solutions 
Much of the waste we generate is tied to the construction  of our facilities and our manufacturing activities. Since  the mid-1990s, we have increased our global recycling  rate of non-hazardous waste from 25% to 94%, and we  achieved zero hazardous waste to landfill by 2020,1 all  while Intel s business and production continued to grow.  
As part of our 2030 goals, we are expanding our   commitment to achieve zero total waste to landfill,   and also increasing our focus on implementing circular  economy strategies for our manufacturing waste streams. 
Circular Solutions for Manufacturing Waste  
Major semiconductor manufacturing-related waste  streams include lithography-related solvents, metal   plating waste, specialty base cleaners, spent sulfuric   acid, ammonium sulfate, and calcium fluoride. Our   operations also generate plastic, metal, kitchen, and  general office waste. 
We have focused on finding ways to recover materials  and regenerate resources to create circular economy  solutions that reduce costs and environmental impact. In  2020, we directly reused, recovered, or recycled 63% of  our manufacturing waste, or approximately 179,000 tons.  
We recover and sell copper and other metals that   previously were part of our plating process waste  streams. Capturing the wastes from the manufacturing   of chips enables creation of a circular economy: the  excess of metals used to create transistors including  semi-precious and responsibly sourced metals is   reclaimed for the secondary market.  
Sustainable  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Looking Ahead. In 2021, we plan to continue to focus  on opportunities to upcycle waste by working further  on waste segregation practices and collaborating   with our suppliers to evaluate new technology for  waste recovery.  In 2020, we recycled over   160,000 tons, or 97%, of our   
construction waste. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Our handling of sulfuric acid waste from our manufacturing  operations is another example of our recovery and reuse  strategy. In 2018, we began sending it to an off-site facility,  where it is processed to technical grade sulfuric acid and  directed back to our manufacturing operations, where   we use it in on-site wastewater treatment systems. By the  end of 2020, we were recovering and reusing all sulfuric  acid waste. 
2030 Goal: Zero Waste1   Circular Economy 
Description. Achieve zero total waste to landfill and  implement circular economy strategies for 60% of   our manufacturing waste streams in partnership   with our suppliers.   
Baseline. As of January 1, 2020,  1% of hazardous  waste went to landfill and we had implemented   circular economy strategies for 65% of   manufacturing waste.  
Progress in 2020. At the end of 2020, we achieved   5% total waste to landfill and implemented circular  strategies for 63% of manufacturing waste. Our   2030 goal of 60% will be challenging in future years  given our projected growth and new waste streams,  suppliers, and locations that will require new circular  economy strategies.  
Thousands of Tons 
Waste Generated and Landfilled 
We updated the definition of  total waste  in 2020 to align with our 2030  goals. Our new 2030 total waste definition includes hazardous waste  and non-hazardous solid waste, as well as additional non-hazardous  liquid waste and chemical debris. However, in line with common waste  reporting practices, we do not include salts and biosolids from our on- site water reclamation systems in Israel, Oregon, and Arizona. 2019 and  prior years followed the definition from our 2020 goals, which included  hazardous waste and non-hazardous solid waste. 
Circular Solutions for Manufacturing Waste Streams 
In 2020, 82% of Intel s manufacturing waste was fuel blended, recycled,  recovered, or reused. Manufacturing waste represented 43% of our  total waste in 2020, and included hazardous and non-hazardous waste  associated with manufacturing processes at Intel s wafer fabrication  manufacturing sites. For our circular solutions strategy, Intel follows the  Ellen McArthur Foundation definition of circular economy and  upcycling   of waste. Upcycling is defined as keeping products and materials in use  via reuse, resale, repurposing, and recycling. It includes recovering and  restoring products, components, and materials through strategies like  reuse, repair, remanufacturing, use as a feedstock, and recycling. It does  not include fuel blending unless it is done after a recovery of a major  constituent of the waste stream.  
7% Treatment 
7% Incineration 3% Land ll 
20% Fuel Blended 
40% Recovered 2% Recycled 
2020 2016 2018 2019 2017 
Total Waste Generated   Normalized Total Waste Generated 
% Total Waste Sent to Landfill 
106 102 88 121 119 
7% 7% 3% 5% 9% 
66 intel.com responsibility 
20% Direct Re-use 
Normalized Production Index  
(Year 2015   100) 
Reverse Logistics and the Circular Economy 
Our supply chain organization works to reduce   the environmental impact associated with reverse   logistics operations that is, the return of products   and materials to Intel and our supply chain. We seek   opportunities to capture circular economy value on  returns, including restocking back to inventory, repair- ing, reuse as warranty spares, or extending product life  through resale in the secondary market. On average,   Intel reuses approximately 50% to 60% of returned  products. Electronic components that cannot be reused  or resold are routed through Intel s network of recycling  vendors, with over 99% of materials reclaimed for   precious metals or recycled.   
In 2020, we launched a multiyear program focused   on expanding circular economy strategies across Intel s  supply chain. Included were new asset recovery programs  that extended product life and increased the reuse of  returned solid-state drives, CPUs, and other products.  In addition to reducing environmental impact, the pro- gram resulted in  30 million in financial benefits. We will  continue our efforts to increase recycled material content  in all reverse logistics packaging and aim to achieve 70%  recovery and reuse rates on returned products by 2025.   
We envision a future where reverse logistics further   expand the environmental benefits of the circular   economy, enable new  reverse circular  sources of   supply, and help our customers and suppliers achieve  their circularity goals. Learn more. 
Sustainable  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
approximately 50% to 60%   
On average, Intel reuses  
of returned products. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Chart updated on June 18, 2021 to reflect the most current process. 
Intel Reverse Logistics Product Lifecycle 
By adopting circular economy strategies to maximize  recovery value and reduce environmental impact, Intel has  been able to reuse and refurbish more than half of all  products returned. 
Manufacturing 
Sustainable Packaging 
Intel has a history of practicing sustainable packaging methods to improve packaging designs and sustainable material  selection, focused on reducing unfavorable material, increasing material efficiency, designing for recovery and recycling,  prioritizing recycled content, and sourcing responsible materials.  
Working with suppliers we developed a reusable precision thermoform tray for incoming material and for finished goods  shipping to customers and eliminated piece part trays that were historically left for landfill. The thermoform tray is 50%   the plastic mass of an industry injection molded tray and made of a more recyclable material (PET). The closed pocket   eliminates non-recyclable covers that were previously used to prevent product contamination in typical industry trays. In  2020, Intel worked to include post-consumer recycled material in the thermoform trays so that nearly half of the tray is  non-virgin material. Since 2009, Intel conservatively estimates it has eliminated over 16,000 metric tons of plastic material  through these initiatives. To drive further progress, we set a target that by 2022 over 95% of the materials used in our new  product packaging designs, by weight, will be recyclable or reusable. Through the end of 2020, we are trending toward  exceeding this goal (96%). 
Secondary Market Other Industries 
As part of reverse logistics circular strategies, in 2020, we recovered 56%  of returned units for reuse or refurbishment. We also reclaimed precious  metal from units sent to scrap. 
54% of returns 
recovered for reuse or refurbish 
Realized  30M in additional value  in 2020 
24% Reuse   Finished goods inventory   Warranty exchange spares   Secondary market sales 
30% Refurbishment   Screen and upgrade for re-use   Repair for exchange spares   Component reclaim 
46% Reclaim   Precious metal reclaim   Materials recycle 
67 intel.com responsibility 
Sustainable Manufacturing and Chemistry Initiatives 
Two of our 2030 RISE technology industry initiatives   focus on collaborations within our ecosystem to   accelerate progress on reducing climate impact in semi- conductor manufacturing and advancing sustainable  chemistry use and footprinting.  
Sustainable Manufacturing 
Intel is committed to contributing to the global effort  toward science-based greenhouse emissions reductions  in line with efforts to limit global warming to 1.5 C.   However, we face challenges to gaining formal approval  for an emissions-reduction target under the existing   methodology of the Science-Based Targets Initiative   (SBTi) due to a number of factors:  
First, the absolute contraction approach for setting   science-based targets does not take into account early  action to reduce absolute emissions. The convergence  approach within SBTi's sectoral decarbonization   approach (SDA) does consider early action, but there   is currently no SDA for the semiconductor industry. 
Second, demand for semiconductors is increasing,   due in part to the role that technology plays in driving  climate solutions. Current frameworks do not include  consideration of the application of technology to   reduce climate impact in global manufacturing. 
In addition, emissions budgets and trajectories under   current SDA science-based target frameworks are   based primarily on CO2 emissions pathways. Emissions  pathways for non-CO2 gases differ from those for CO2   due to differences in factors such as mitigation and  abatement potential. Process emissions for the   semiconductor manufacturing industry include   non-CO2 gases such as perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and   nitrous oxide (N2O). Consideration of sector-specific   differences in emissions trajectories for CO2 and non-  
Sustainable  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
CO2 GHG emissions is a potential area of importance  for future research and for expanding opportunities   for sector-specific approaches to targets.  
In 2020, we began working with industry stakeholders   to assess the potential for the development of a sector-  specific approach to setting science-based GHG emissions  reduction targets for the semiconductor manufacturing  industry. The goal is to expand the number of companies  in our sector setting approved science-based targets. 
Sustainable Chemistry 
Sustainable chemistry involves designing chemical  products and processes in ways that minimize the use  and creation of hazardous materials. As part of Intel s  2020 goals, we established a process with our suppliers  to complete green chemistry screening and alternative  assessments on high-volume manufacturing chemicals  that met certain hazard criteria.   
We continue to provide webinars and sustainable   chemistry screening criteria for suppliers to advance   their progress in this area. In addition, we participate   in the RBA s Chemical Management Workgroup to   develop industry-wide chemical management initiatives  that can be propagated through the RBA membership and  supply chain. We also participate in a multi-stakeholder  group, the Clean Electronics Production Network (CEPN),  whose primary focus is to eliminate exposure to toxic  chemicals in the supply chain through use of safer   alternatives where feasible, and on developing tools   to understand and further control chemical risks.   
Our 2030 technology industry initiative around   sustainable chemistry aims to enable greener chemical  strategies across the life cycle of the technology value  chain by implementing an innovative chemical footprint  methodology. This effort is focused on an approach and  
metric that will encompass other impact factors, which  we believe will yield a more effective result overall.   These factors, or impact categories, include looking at   human health, environmental, climate change, regulatory,   and reputational risk. The intent is to use these impact  categories to further quantify our manufacturing chemi- cal footprint. In 2020, we engaged with several industry  groups and environmental experts to get input on our  methodology and identify future collaboration oppor- tunities. We envision this initiative will enable Intel, our  suppliers, customers, and others across our industry to  better assess the full lifecycle impact of each chemical,  including disposal, and enable industry-wide improve- ments by 2030. 
Chemical Footprint Methodology  
Mass of   Chemical Used Weighting Factors   x 
For each chemical used, we have assigned a weighting  factor from 1-4, with 4 representing the biggest impact.  The methodology will also take into consideration the  effectiveness of the control technology.  
Once we establish our baseline chemical footprint  based on 2020 data, we plan to strategically target  the chemicals of  highest impact  to identify and fund  projects that will result in a reduction or softening of  our overall chemical footprint. We are also looking  into how we can integrate other tiers in the chemical  lifecycle for example, our supply chain and its waste  streams into our overall goal.  
 (reputation impact x expectation of regulation x  human health factors x environmental impact x   
Manufacturing Chemical Footprint   
climate impact) 
68 intel.com responsibility 
Achieving Carbon Neutral Computing 
As we continue to take actions to reduce Intel s own   global manufacturing and supply chain climate footprint  and to advance product energy efficiency, we have   also taken on the global challenge to partner with the  technology industry and other stakeholders to achieve   carbon-neutral computing.  Conceptually, carbon-  neutral computing is achieved when the positive   benefits of the ICT sector  handprint  the ways in   which technology is applied to reduce climate impact  across the economy equals or exceeds the climate   and energy  footprint  of  product-related emissions   and carbon embedded in technology systems.   
To do our part, Intel s global challenge framework includes  partnering with others to accelerate the sustainability of  PCs across their lifecycles, improve the energy efficiency  of data centers, and accelerate handprint projects to  reduce emissions across high-impact industries such   as utilities, oil and gas, and manufacturing. 
Collaborating on Sustainable PC Design 
Partnering with PC manufacturers, we are assessing the  carbon footprint of the PC across its lifecycle to identify  carbon reduction opportunities. This includes addressing  embedded carbon in the printed wiring board and other  components of the PC system such as the display and  power supply system. By identifying carbon reduction  opportunities in the reference design, OEM implementa- tion, and PC system supply chain partners, we can enable  carbon reductions in Intel s scope 3 supply chain and  product-related emissions. We can also implement   circularity and sustainable design improvements to   help our customers reduce their overall carbon footprints   and achieve their sustainability goals. Over the past  year, we have worked closely with our OEM partners to  support their sustainable PC design initiatives, including  sustainable design, and solutions to promote a circular  supply chain and to maximize reuse and responsible  recycling for PCs at the end of life. 
Sustainable  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
When looking at the lifecycle analysis of a PC, the two  largest opportunities for carbon footprint reduction are in  the product use phase and in the manufacturing phase.  Intel works in partnership with OEM manufacturing  customers to maximize the efficiency of power supply  systems and use of low-power states when possible,  including contributing to EPEAT, ENERGY STAR,  and lifecycle assessment (LCA) frameworks. For more  information on these efforts, see  Product Energy  Efficiency  earlier in this section. To address system-  level manufacturing impacts, Intel actively works to  provide reference designs for the main system board   through focused engineering work. This has helped   drive reductions in board size, number of components,  and integration of ingredients such as Thunderbolt    Technology. In partnership across the industry we have  also advanced the use of low-temperature solder, which  saves energy in the manufacturing of the PC main board.  
Reducing the Carbon Impact of Data Centers  
In a data center, a large portion of the overall carbon  footprint is related to energy consumption, as well as the  cooling of the servers and systems in that data center.   As a result, Intel is working with utility system partners  to foster and simplify increased availability of renewable  energy for data centers. We are also collaborating with  our data center operator customers on projects that  accelerate data center energy efficiency and optimize  the use of renewable energy sources to power the cloud.  This includes projects to define measurement models to  differentiate energy use from renewable vs. fossil-based  sources that inform when and where workloads should  be run to minimize carbon impact, e.g., time-shifting  of workloads when feasible to when renewable energy  availability is highest generally during mid-day and  during the night. To further reduce compute carbon  
impact, we are working on engineering advanced   cooling solutions that optimize the reuse of compute  exhaust heat.   
To address embedded carbon, we are partnering with  our data center customers on projects that address the  data center equipment lifecycle. We are co-leading an  Open Compute Project (OCP) workstream project on  defining standards and practices on concepts of repair- ability, modularity, circular economy, biodegradability,  and ultimately a minimum level of incremental residual  e-waste (inspirationally, less than 10% of the original bill  of materials).  
69 intel.com responsibility 
Expanding the Technology  Handprint  
To build a supportive policy environment for private   sector leadership on climate change, we participate in   a range of organizations, policy forums, and coalitions.  We are working with other companies and policymakers  to enable technology-based solutions that provide greater  carbon benefit than the carbon embedded in those  solutions for example, a smart building system with  sensors and control software that allow a company to  save energy in heating and cooling. We aim to accelerate  the deployment of such projects within Intel s operations  and also in external projects in collaboration with our  customers. Read the blog. 
In addition, we are working with the Center for Climate  Change and Energy Solutions (C2ES) and Gridwise  Alliance, which advocate for innovation and investments  in climate solutions, including expanding ICT s role in  driving change and grid modernization appropriations as  part of future infrastructure investments. In 2020, we also  announced the creation of the Digital Climate Alliance,  aimed at advancing discussions with policymakers on  the value and opportunity of the ICT handprint. For more  detail, see  Governance, Ethics and Public Policy  in the  Our Business section of this report. 
Sustainable  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
and scalable industrial computers  
and software components are   
Intel s interoperable, secure,   
powering the advance of   
smart energy. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Building the Energy Grid of the Future 
Intel is helping build a new ecosystem for energy generation, distribution, and consumption one where centralized  carbon-based generation will be retired and replaced with decentralized, smart grids of cleaner renewable energy. With  embedded compute at the edge and across the grids, utility companies will be able to manage their assets more dynamically,  decrease maintenance and transmission costs, and improve worker safety. The objective is that consumers will have more  energy choices, and will be able to offer up their own demand and supplies from, for example, a rooftop solar system   to the marketplace. For an example of this transformation, read about Intel and Capgemini s Substation and Edge-of-the-  Grid Automation, a purpose-built solution to address the limitations of a one-way grid by helping utilities monitor and   manage load and flow across all assets, prioritize production and consumption of clean energy sources, simplify the   energy ecosystem, extend asset life duration, and reduce IT infrastructure footprint within the substation.   
In 2020, we also worked with Dell and other partners on a grid modernization solution focused on substation automation and  virtual protection relays that will enable electric utilities to integrate more sources of renewable energy into the grid, reducing  greenhouse gases. The solution consolidates workloads in primary distribution utility substations using edge servers.  
70 intel.com responsibility 
Enabling  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Acting alone, Intel cannot achieve the broad, societal impact we aspire to. We are  
committed to creating a better world through the power of our technology and   
the expertise and passion of our employees. We also believe that the health of   
our company and the communities where we operate depends on an increasingly  
inclusive community of innovators prepared for the jobs of the future. Intel and  
the Intel Foundation are collaborating with others to catalyze action on global  
social and environmental challenges, broaden access to opportunity and support  
community needs, and inspire the next generation of innovators. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
910,000 volunteer hours 
Over the past decade, Intel employees donated more than  10 million volunteer hours. Despite COVID-19-related   challenges, our employees and retirees found ways to   continue to support local communities including virtual   activities by volunteering 910,000 hours globally in 2020.  
230 technology solutions   for social impact   
Through the Intel Pandemic Response Technology Initiative  (PRTI), we committed  50 million to combat the effects   of COVID-19. We have partnered with more than 170   organizations on over 230 projects around the globe to  make an impact in healthcare and education, and aid in  economic recovery.  
 730 million in Intel Foundation  contributions since 1988  
Since its founding in 1988, the Intel Foundation has enabled  positive social impact for our local communities and for  underserved populations though more than  730 million   in funding of programs and STEM initiatives. 
71 intel.com responsibility 
Enabling: Our Approach  
Our employees are our greatest asset, and their   engineering expertise and passion for applying Intel   technology to help solve global challenges are critical to  the achievement of our 2030 RISE goals. We have long  cultivated a culture that strongly encourages employees  to get involved in their communities, with 10 million   volunteer hours contributed globally over the past   decade. With our new goals, we have committed to   donate another 10 million volunteer hours over the   next decade and to increase the impact of our skills- based volunteering.  
To catalyze action and amplify the impact of our   employees  service and generosity, Intel and the Intel  Foundation invest in matching programs and innovative  partnerships and collaborations. In turn, our investments  and support of local communities help us build trust with  external stakeholders and realize our corporate purpose   of enriching lives through technology.  
As an innovation leader, Intel is well-positioned to share  its technology expertise and solutions with communities,  customers, governments, non-governmental organiza- tions (NGOs), and educators to help them reach their   own goals and effect broader change. We aspire to drive  collective impact through our Intel RISE Technology  Initiative in partnership with our customers and other  stakeholders, and to explore innovative ways to apply  technology to solve global challenges from saving   coral reefs and monitoring polar ice and soil moisture,   to reducing diabetic vision loss and deploying  autonomous shuttle services.  
Enabling  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
collaboration. They roll up their sleeves  
approach. It s different with the Intel  Foundation. They understand that   collective action is the best way to   get results, and they do it in close   
 Many companies and corporate   foundations have a sponsorship   
and dig into the details with us.  
  STEM Next Opportunity Fund 
72 intel.com responsibility 
Employees Changing the World 
Our goal is to empower all of our employees to take  actions to advance Intel s RISE strategy and goals. Intel  and the Intel Foundation invest in programs that create  opportunities for employees around the world to learn  and connect with each other, to further integrate cor- porate responsibility and sustainability into their team s  work objectives, and to share their engineering and   other skills with our communities. 
Intel Involved and Skills-Based Volunteering 
In 2020, we celebrated the 25th anniversary of Intel  Involved, our global corporate employee volunteer pro- gram. Since the program s launch in 1995, our employees  have generously donated their skills, technology exper- tise, and more than 18 million hours of service to tackle  environmental challenges, improve education, and help  meet community needs around the world.  
In a year when COVID-19 restricted most activities, we  expanded virtual volunteer opportunities for Intel em- ployees to give their time and talent to those in need. We  were greatly inspired by the generosity and creativity of  our employees during this difficult time, as they reported  910,000 volunteer hours around the world.  
Through Intel Involved, we identify and organize service  projects for individuals and teams. The Intel Foundation  amplifies the impact of volunteerism by donating cash  to eligible nonprofits and schools where Intel employ- ees and US retirees donate at least 20 hours of service  in a year. In 2020, the Foundation provided  8.7 million  in volunteer matching grants, and since 1995, matching  
Enabling  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
 86 Million.  Total matching grants  
through the Intel Involved Program   
for employee volunteer service   
over the past decade.  
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
grants of more than  122 million have positively   impacted communities around the world. 
The Intel Employee Service Corps (IESC), Intel s flagship  skills-based volunteer program, harnesses the passion  and expertise of Intel employees to drive positive social  impact in communities around the world. IESC provides  employees with short-term immersive and collabora- tive experiences in partnership with governments and  non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to address local  and global challenges, including disaster relief. Although  volunteers could not be deployed physically in 2020,  IESC developed a proactive response to the COVID-19  pandemic and delivered critical technology solutions   in a virtual environment. For example, an IESC team that  has supported projects in Nepal for eight years worked  virtually to make recommendations on connectivity for  distance learning and on safety protocols to prepare for  when schools reopen.  
2030 Goal: Community Impact 
Description. Deliver 10 million volunteer hours to  improve our local communities, including an increase  in skills-based volunteerism. 
Baseline. Progress measured from baseline of   Jan. 1, 2020. 
Progress in 2020. During 2020, our employees  volunteered 910,000 hours in our local communities,  including many COVID-19 projects that leveraged  employees  technology skills and expertise.   
Looking Ahead. In 2021, our target is to reach   1 million volunteer hours, and to continue to   expand out skills-based volunteering activities.   
1  Based on the 2020 Value of Volunteer Time rate of  27.20 per hour  
2  Volunteer payments made in 2020 are for 2019 hours. Payments are  
2020 Volunteerism by the Numbers 
 8.7 Million Total dollars matched by   the Intel Foundation for   Intel Involved volunteer hours.2 
published by Independent Sector.  
processed once the year closes.  
20% Percentage of employees   who volunteered 
Volunteering During the Pandemic 
Our employees have found countless ways to make a  difference during the COVID-19 crisis. They made face  shields for hospital staffs, helped turn a closed-down   hotel into a COVID-19 shelter for homeless and at-risk  individuals, and wrote a children's book to help kids   struggling to navigate uncertainty caused by the virus.  Intel Israel volunteers worked to address the loneliness  caused by pandemic isolation by quickly developing a  product that enables non-tech-savvy older people to   connect to their families virtually with the simple push   of a button.  
Other employees found ways to safely continue long-term  volunteer projects amid the pandemic. Volunteers for the  Girls in STEM Day at Intel Arizona, for example, quickly  turned the annual event into a virtual experience in 2020  including  Zoom field trips  for 157 girls in grades 8-12.  Intel solutions engineer Esh  Pickett, founded the free  program 13 years ago to provide girls with the opportunity  
to experience different STEM career paths and learn about  ways that technology solves everyday problems in their  own communities.  
910,000 Number of hours 
 24.8 Million Estimated in-kind value   of volunteer hours.1 
73 intel.com responsibility 
Grants for Volunteer Projects 
The Intel Foundation awards Seed Grants of up to    10,000 to support employee-initiated community   service projects. Projects are selected based on their  originality, potential impact, and expected outcomes.  The following are examples of volunteer projects   selected to receive seed grants in 2020: 
Eco-Farming. Malaysia employees will establish a   sustainable zero-waste eco-cycle community farm   using compostable food waste and recycled rainwater.  This project will be part of the work activities at the   ACS Stepping Stone Centre for members with   intellectual disabilities. 
Supporting Kids With Disabilities. Sense International  India provides education and rehabilitation services to  children with multiple disabilities, including those who  have deaf-blindness, or little or no hearing or sight.  
Enabling  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Sharing Valuable Skills 
We believe that employees  donation of skills they have honed at Intel is particularly significant given the critical community  needs they fill and because schools and nonprofits would have to pay high rates for this type of assistance. For example, in  2020 our legal team donated over 1,500 hours, estimated to be valued at over  375,000.3 Below are a few other examples   of skills-based volunteerism: 
Intel systems engineer Jacob Krakauer donated his 3D printing skills to design and build prosthetic limbs and rehabilitation  devices for people with disabilities at a fraction of the cost of similar medical-grade devices. His efforts included a Spiderman-  inspired prosthetic arm for a 5-year-old who had been struggling to ride a bike. Similarly, Wayne Waterman, an Intel webcast  infrastructure architect, used 3D printing skills to make a prosthetic hand for 8-year-old Henry Hunker. Wayne had made his  young friend a hand six years earlier, but the two worked together to design and make a new hand resembling a dragon   to give Henry some  street cred  against bullies who sometimes teased him about his missing limb.  
Jolene Begay, an Intel engineering technician, combined her technical skills and passion for volunteering to develop an   outreach program to bring a focus on STEM learning to Native communities in her area. Raised on the Navajo Nation   reservation, Jolene has shared her own personal, educational, and professional journey while incorporating hands-on   robotic activities with more than 400 students as part of her Empower You program.  
3 Based on Taproot s Pro Bono executive legal valuation rate of  250 hr. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Employees in India will support digital training and  capacity building for Sense International India special  educators and parents of children with deaf-blindness   to ensure that parents can follow their children s   Individualized Education Plans from within   their homes.  
Connecting Youth With Resources. Oregon employees  will partner with Sewa International and HomePlate  Youth Services to create a website and mobile application  to enable youth experiencing homelessness or home  instability to access and understand available resources.  
Updating Facilities. Fundacion Emmanuel Guadalajara  A.C. provides homes, food, and love to almost 100   underserved children. Employees in Mexico will update  the foundation's dining facilities with fresh paint, new  tables, chairs, and appliances. 
Global Volunteerism, Local Impact 
Volunteer Heroes. Each year, the Global Intel Involved Hero  Awards program recognizes Intel super volunteers. Finalists  receive  2,500 grants from the Intel Foundation for the chari- table organization or school of their choice. The overall winner  receives an additional  7,500 grant for his or her designated  organization and is recognized at Intel s Legends and Luminaries  event celebrating the top employees  achievements each year.  
This year s Intel Involved Global Hero dedicated his time and  skill to co-Iead a team of employees in Costa Rica to donate  their data science expertise to help the government understand  how containment policies would affect virus reproduction rates  and potential hospital and ICU usage during the COVID-19   pandemic. Luis D. Rojas saw hospitals in Costa Rica could   struggle with the demand for patient beds, and knew Intel   employees could provide exactly what was needed data.   Along with a team of co-workers and in partnership with the  country s main public health agency, Caja Costarricense de  Seguro Social, Luis and the team he led created mathematical  models to project new cases and the anticipated need for ICU  capacity. The volunteers invested over 1,000 hours leveraging  their expertise in data science, statistical process control, and  machine learning system deployment. The data analysis was  presented to the president of Costa Rica, and became one of   the key tools the country used to create public health policy   and inform its pandemic response. Read more.  
Other finalists from Ireland, Israel, Malaysia, India, and the   US stepped up to support their communities through an   exceptionally difficult year. From vocational training for young  women in rural India to organizing the distribution of over  100,000 pounds of food, Intel volunteers made clear that   even perhaps, especially in a global crisis, they are   thinking of others and changing lives. 
74 intel.com responsibility 
Intel Foundation: Catalyzing Impact 
Today s world requires a new mindset and approach to  resolve persistent and emerging challenges facing people  and communities every day. For three decades, the Intel  Foundation has enabled positive social impact giving  more than  730 million since 1988 guided by the   passion of Intel s people and the company s commit- ment to equitable access to education and opportunity. 
The Intel Foundation is embarking on an exciting chapter  in its journey to deliver on a bold new vision: empowering  human potential and igniting positive change to drive an  even deeper impact in the future and advance gender  and racial equity and social justice globally. To achieve its  new vision, the Foundation has accelerated its mission   to empower youth and communities with the skills and  confidence to advance and excel by bringing people,  partnerships, and technology together. Watch video. 
Enabling  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Coming Together for Humanitarian  and Natural Disaster Relief 
In 2020, the Foundation supported a number of emer- gency response organizations, including the Red Cross   work to address the impact of wildfires and hurricanes,  as well as COVID-19. Intel s employees gave generously  to the Red Cross around the world in 2020, with nearly   570,000 in total donations when matched by the  Foundation. In March 2020, the Foundation announced a   4 million commitment to support COVID-19 relief and  match donations of Intel employees and US retires up  to an additional  2 million. The funds were distributed  to community foundations and organizations that are  focused on food security, shelter, medical equipment,  and small-business support in communities where Intel  has a significant presence. Learn more.  
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
The Foundation collaborates with nonprofit, public and  private organizations, and schools to create and deploy  global solutions by contributing thought leadership and  financial resources to innovative programs that support  underserved populations.  
The Foundation s priorities include: 
Promoting STEM education: Recognizing the life-  changing power of technology and learning, the   Foundation champions immersive STEM experiences   to help ensure that the next generation of innovators   is diverse and inclusive.  
Amplifying employees  time and generosity: The   Foundation connects employees  and US retirees   passions to philanthropy to take on global challenges  and meet community needs through matching funds to  schools and nonprofit organizations where our employees  and US retirees volunteer and make donations.  
Responding to humanitarian crises and natural   disasters: When humanitarian crises or natural disasters  strike, the Foundation matches employees  donations   to support communities and provides options for   employees to make their donations count where and  when they are needed most to achieve long-term impact.  
In 2020, to advance social justice and anti-racism, the  Foundation initiated a special  500,000 employee   donation match campaign in support of the National  Urban League and other organizations. For more, see   Social Equity  in the Inclusive section of this report.  
The Foundation is also working with the STEM Next   Opportunity Fund on the Million Girls Moonshot, to  engage more girls in STEM. To learn more, see  Building  a Diverse Technology Industry  in the Inclusive section   of this report.  
1  Includes organizations focused on addressing community needs,  
As part of our social impact strategy, Intel and the Intel Foundation  work with a broad range of nonprofit and education partners, including  providing grants and other in-kind support. For all of our contributions,  we maintain control and review processes to track contributions and  ensure alignment with Intel Values and impact. Recipients of grants  from Intel and the Intel Foundation are required to verify compliance  with Intel s non-discrimination policy. In 2020, some examples of funded  organizations receiving significant grants in each of our giving categories  included: Higher Ed (Scholarship America, University of California at  Berkeley, and University of Texas at Austin), K-12 Education (STEM Next  Opportunity Fund, Shashwat Foundation, and Oakland Public Education  Fund), and Community and Civic Organizations (American National Red  Cross, XPrize Foundation, and Arizona Community Foundation).  
disaster relief, diversity and inclusion, environmental impact, arts and  culture, and other civic-related activities.  
Foundation and Corporate Giving 
2020 Contributions (in millions)  
In 2020, charitable giving by Intel and the Intel Foundation totaled    80.4 million, compared with  75.1 million in 2019. 
Corporate Cash  28.1  13.9  42.0 
Foundation 
In-Kind Giving  1.8  1.0  2.8 
Total  56.4  24.0  80.4 
Foundation Grants  4.8  2.0  6.8 
Donation Matching  15.9  4.5  20.4 
Volunteer Matching  5.8  2.7  8.5 
Community Giving by Category 
US International Total 
75 intel.com responsibility 
Community and Civic  Organizations1 
K-12 Education 
Higher Education 
Collaborating for Technology Impact 
Given the increasing urgency, complexity, and intercon- nectedness of issues facing society, we are working to  form new partnerships and collaborative models to   accelerate progress, as highlighted throughout this  report. Below are examples of additional collaborations  that span across our RISE focus areas and are driving  new learnings and changing the way we work with our  customers, external partners, and our employees to   solve global challenges. 
Intel RISE Technology Initiative  
On April 7, 2020, Intel announced the Pandemic   Response Technology Initiative (PRTI), committing    50 million to combat the coronavirus by accelerating  access to technology at the point of patient care and  speeding scientific research, ensuring access to online  learning for students, and aiding in economic recovery.  Through the PRTI, Intel has partnered with over 170  organizations on over 230 projects in multiple sectors,  including technology, healthcare, education, industrial,  retail, transportation, and academia. The goal is to apply  the breadth of Intel s technology, expertise, and scale to  provide relief across the areas of education, economic  recovery, and health and life sciences. 
In 2021, the PRTI will evolve to become the Intel RISE  Technology Initiative (IRTI) to reflect a broader platform  for action and expanded channel to build deeper rela- tionships with our customers and other partners in line  with our corporate purpose and work to create shared  value. Intel has committed  20 million in 2021 to fund  projects through the IRTI, enabling Intel employees to  work with customers and partners to apply technology  to solve challenges aligned with Intel s RISE strategy  and global challenges. We will evaluate proposals that  leverage Intel technology, expertise, and ecosystem in  
Enabling  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
areas like health and life sciences  education and online  learning  economic recovery  social equity and human  rights  accessibility  and climate and sustainability efforts.  Specifically, we are revolutionizing how technology will  improve health and safety  making technology fully   inclusive and expanding digital readiness for everyone   and achieving carbon neutral computing to address  climate change.  
Technology, Purpose, and the Olympics  
Intel has been a worldwide partner of the Olympic  Games since 2017 and plays a key role in accelerating  the adoption of new technologies in sports. In 2021,  Intel proudly became a Worldwide Paralympic Partner  to support the International Paralympic Committee in its  mission to lead and expand the paralympic movement  around the world. In partnership with the International  Olympic Committee (IOC), we are creating experiences  that are more innovative and immersive than ever before,  using Intel's leading technologies for audience interaction  and to enhance the Games through 2024. For the Tokyo,  Japan 2021 Summer Olympic Games and beyond, we are  excited to build on the PyeongChang, Korea 2018 Winter  Olympic Games experience by applying new technologies  like AI to bring deeper levels of connectivity and interac- tion to Olympic fans around the world. 
Beyond our technology, we are proud to engage in  purpose-led collaboration with the IOC centered around  energy efficiency and utilizing Intel s expertise to help  understand and improve the environmental impact of  digital activities, as well as diversity and inclusion, with  projects launching in 2021. We re also starting to work  with the Paris, France 2024 Organizing Committee on its  environmental excellence initiatives, with an initial focus  on carbon neutrality and sustainable procurement. 
In addition we are collaborating with the IOC through  its Athlete365 program to offer support, guidance, and  resources to help elite athletes transition into careers in  business. Athletes are the heart of what the Games repre- sent as the world comes together to celebrate sport and  diversity, and to push the boundaries of performance.  Intel values the contributions from the athlete community  and understands the unique perspective they bring when  it comes to developing technology. Learn more. 
76 intel.com responsibility 
Appendix  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
About This Report 
Independent Limited Assurance Statement 
Performance Data Summary 
SASB and TCFD Framework Alignment 
UN Sustainable Development Goals 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures 
Intel 2020 Water Inventory by Location and Source 
2020 Environmental, Health, and Safety Violations 
Top 100 Production and Services Suppliers by Spends 
77 intel.com responsibility 
About This Report 
We prepared this report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI),  Standards: Comprehensive option. A GRI Content Index is provided on our Report  Builder website. We also use other recognized frameworks to inform the content  of this report, including the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Standards,  the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures framework, the UN   Global Compact, and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. 
We continue to integrate sustainability information into our investor communi- cations, and additional information about Intel s operations and financial state- ments is available in the 2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Our Business  section of this report covers content recommended by the International Integrated  Reporting Council for inclusion in  integrated reports,  and can be downloaded as  a standalone document or read as an interactive part of our full 2020-21 Corporate  Responsibility Report.  
For a high-level overview of Intel s corporate responsibility, supporting   documents and data, past reports, and to customize a report with the sections  you choose, visit our Corporate Responsibility and Report Builder websites.   A printed summary of the report is available by request. Send questions, com- ments, or feedback to Suzanne Fallender, Director of Corporate Responsibility,  Intel Corporation, 5000 W. Chandler Blvd., CH7-437, Chandler, AZ 85226 US.  You can also use our web-based feedback form or the CSR Intel blog to   contact our Corporate Responsibility team. 
For best viewing results on a PC or tablet, we recommend using Adobe Acrobat DC   or QuickTime. For best printing results, use letter-size paper. 
Report Scope and Profile  
With the Intel 2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report, we aim to provide   stakeholders with a balanced view of our corporate responsibility strategy and  performance for Intel s worldwide operations during fiscal year 2020 (ended  December 26, 2020). Our previous report was published in May 2020. 
References to  Intel  throughout this report pertain to Intel Corporation. The  Intel Foundation is a separate entity. The report does not include performance  information for Intel s joint ventures or firms included in the investment portfolio  of Intel Capital, Intel s global investment organization, unless specified. Financial  data is presented in US dollars.   
Appendix  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
This year s report does not reflect any significant changes in reporting scope compared to  our previous report. Principles and policies apply to all officers and employees of Intel and   its subsidiaries, unless otherwise noted.  
Key performance indicators cover our global manufacturing operations, including our   wafer manufacturing and assembly and test facilities. Unless stated otherwise, 2020 data   is considered final based on information received by May 1, 2021, and provided that infor- mation reproduced or derived from our 2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K speaks as  of January 22, 2021, the date we submitted our Form 10-K for filing. 
We report our key environmental performance indicators in both absolute terms and on   a normalized, or  per unit  or  intensity,  basis. Our normalized production index (NPI) is   derived from our worldwide wafer production data. The NPI is indexed to a baseline year of  2015. One important limitation of the NPI is that it does not take into account the number   of additional manufacturing steps used in newer process technologies.  
Approach to Report Assurance 
The information in this Corporate Responsibility Report is subject to internal reviews and, for  selected content, external reviews. On a regular basis, we validate the management systems  and processes used to collect the data. We have maintained a multi-site ISO 14001 certification  for our manufacturing locations since 2001, which requires independent third-party audits  at many of our sites each year. In 2019, we established a company-wide certification to ISO  45001, an internationally recognized standard for environmental, health, and safety manage- ment systems, which requires independent third-party audits at our manufacturing sites. Five  of our sites meet the ISO 50001 Energy Management System standard. Our operations in  Ireland are covered by the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme.  
For many years, we have obtained third-party verification for our greenhouse gas (GHG)   emissions. Since 2012, we have completed third-party assurance for selected indicators  contained in our Corporate Responsibility Report. For the 2020-21 Corporate Responsibility  Report, we engaged Apex Companies LLC to complete the assurance review. Their report is  included in this Appendix. 
This 2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report contains forward-looking statements, and actual results could differ  materially. Risk factors that could cause actual results to differ are set forth in the  Risk Factors  of the 2020 Intel  Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors are subject to update by our future filings and submissions with the US  Securities and Exchange Commission and earnings releases. Forward-looking statements are based on expectations as  of the date of this report, unless an earlier date is indicated. Statements derived from our 2020 Annual Report on Form  10-K speak as of January 22, 2021. Intel disclaims any duty to update any statement made in this report except to the  extent required by law. This report contains non-GAAP financial measures relating to our performance. You can find   the reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in this Appendix, and  further explanation of these adjustments in the  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  within  Management s Discussion   and Analysis  in the 2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K.  
78 intel.com responsibility 
For a PDF copy of this statement, including a summary of data within the scope of assurance for 2020, access the Report Builder website. 
Independent Limited Assurance Statement 
Appendix  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
  Introduction and Objectives of Work   
Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) has been engaged by Intel Corporation (Intel) to provide limited assurance of its selected  environmental, safety, supplier, and diversity data. This assurance statement applies to the related information included within  the scope of work described below (Subject Matter).    
INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT     
To:  The Stakeholders of Intel Corporation  
    Page 1 of 2  
This information and its presentation in Intel s 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report ( the Report ) are the sole responsibility of  the management of Intel.  Apex was not involved in the drafting of the Report.  Our sole responsibility was to provide  independent assurance on the accuracy of the Subject Matter.  This is the third year in which we have provided assurance over  Intel s Corporate Responsibility Report.  
 Material is defined by Intel as any site   1% of the global total for that metric inventory  
Note:  Manufacturing sites include wafer fabs, assembly test (ATM), technology development (TD), and mask operations  
The Subject Matter needs to be read and understood together with the description of the Subject Matter in the Report. The  reporting criteria for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions was the World Resources Institute (WRI) World Business Council for  Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. The reporting  criteria for the safety data was the OSHA and US Bureau of Labor Standards. The reporting criteria for supplier audits was the  RBA Code of Conduct. The reporting criteria for other data is based on company criteria, as described in the CR Report.  
Limitations and Exclusions  
Excluded from the scope of our work is any verification of information relating to:  
Scope of Work  
The scope of our work was limited to assurance over the following environmental, safety, supplier, and diversity data included  within Intel s 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report ( the Report ) for the period of calendar year 2020 (the  Subject Matter ):  
Reporting Criteria  
Our assurance does not extend to any other information included in the Report.  
Reporting Boundaries   
The following are the boundaries used by Intel for reporting sustainability data:  
   Percent of Underrepresented Minorities in Senior Leadership (Hispanics, African American, Native Americans in U.S.  
   Global Employee Turnover Rate  
   Percent of Women in Senior Leadership (Global)  
   Adjustment of CY 2019 process emissions of Scope 1  
   Water Conservation  
   Global Energy Use (Direct and Indirect)  
   Energy Conservation  
   Priority Major Findings by Category for RBA VAP supplier audits  
   Number of Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Validated Audit Program (VAP) supplier audits conducted   
   Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1, Scope 2 market-based and location-based, and Scope 3, Category 10    
   Recordable Injury and Illness Rate  
   Cumulative Trauma Disorder (CTD) Rate  
   Operational Control  
   For GHG Emissions - all manufacturing sites and all non-manufacturing sites with air permits  
   For Water and Energy - all manufacturing and technology development (TD) sites, non-manufacturing sites where  Intel has operational control that have either    2,000 employees or   2,000 employees that consume or generate an  amount that is material to the global inventory.   
   Text or other written statements associated with Intel s 2020 Report     Activities outside the defined verification period of Calendar Year 2020  
Processing of Sold Products)   
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
April 22, 2021   
Mary E. Armstrong-Friberg, Lead Verifier    John Rohde, Technical Reviewer    Principal Consultant   Practice Line Leader      Apex Companies, LLC   Apex Companies, LLC  Cleveland, Ohio   Lakewood, Colorado        
This limited assurance engagement relies on a risk-based selected sample of sustainability data and the associated limitations  that this entails. This independent statement should not be relied upon to detect all errors, omissions or misstatements that may  exist.  
Responsibilities  
This preparation and presentation of the Subject Matter in the Report are the sole responsibility of the management of Intel.     
    Page 2 of 2  
The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and health and  safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an excellent understanding  of Apex s standard methodology for the verification of greenhouse gas emissions data.  
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with Intel, its Directors or Managers beyond that required of this  assignment.  We have conducted this verification independently, and there has been no conflict of interest.   
Apex was not involved in the drafting of the Subject Matter or of the Reporting Criteria. Our responsibilities were to:  
We performed our work in accordance with Apex s standard procedures and guidelines for external Assurance of Sustainability  Reports and International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other than  Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (effective for assurance reports dated on or after Dec. 15, 2015), issued by  the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. GHG emissions were verified in accordance with ISO 14064-3:  Second edition 2019-04: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification with Guidance for the Verification and Validation of  Greenhouse Gas Statements. A materiality threshold of  5 percent was set for the assurance process.  
Summary of Work Performed  
As part of our independent verification, our work included:   
Assessment Standards  
Conclusion    
On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above:  
Apex is an independent professional services company that specializes in Health, Safety, Social and Environmental  management services including assurance with over 30 years history in providing these services.   
A summary of data within the scope of assurance for 2020 is attached.  
Statement of Independence, Integrity and Competence   
Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day  business activities.  
   Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Subject Matter is not fairly stated in all material respects  and  
   It is our opinion that Intel has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of  quantitative data within the scope of this assurance.   
   obtain limited assurance about whether the Subject Matter has been prepared in accordance with the Reporting  Criteria   
5.  Agreeing a selection of the Subject Matter to the corresponding source documentation    
4.  Reviewing documentary evidence provided by Intel    
   report our conclusions to the management of Intel.  
   form an independent conclusion based on the assurance procedures performed and evidence obtained  and  
3.  Reviewing the data collection and consolidation processes used to compile Subject Matter, including assessing  assumptions made, and the data scope and reporting boundaries   
2.  Conducting interviews with relevant Intel personnel regarding data collection and reporting systems    
6.  Reviewing Intel systems for quantitative data aggregation and analysis  and  
1.  Assessing the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria for the Subject Matter   
7.  Assessing the disclosure and presentation of the Subject Matter to ensure consistency with assured information.  
79 intel.com responsibility 
1 Rate based on 100 employees working full time for one year  data is as of March 2021. 
2  Including Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based method. For our 2030 goal, we refined our GHG inventory to  
3 We define water withdrawals, or water usage, as total gallons of incoming fresh (potable) water used. 
include sources that were previously considered insignificant, and made changes to global warming potentials.  2019 figures have been updated to reflect this. 
Performance Data Summary 
Appendix  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Report Section 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 
Our Business and Financial Results 
Net revenue (dollars in billions)  77.9  72.0  70.8  62.8  59.4 
Net income (dollars in billions)  20.9  21.0  21.1  9.6  10.3 
Provision for taxes (dollars in billions)  4.2  3.0  2.3  10.8  2.6 
Research and development spending (dollars in billions)  13.6  13.4  13.5  13.0  12.7 
Capital investments (dollars in billions)  14.3  16.2  15.2  11.8  9.6 
Employees at year end (in thousands) 110.6 110.8 107.4 102.7 106.0 
Safety   recordable rate1 days away case rate1 0.75 0.16 0.69 0.14 0.72 0.14 0.68 0.12 0.49 0.07 
Environmental Sustainability 
Greenhouse gas emissions (million metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent)2 2.88 2.88 2.58 2.46 1.62 
Renewable energy purchased (% of global electricity use) 82% 71% 71% 73% 80% 
Energy use (billion kWh   includes electricity, gas, and diesel) 10.6 9.6 8.3 7.3 6.5 
Total water withdrawn (billions of gallons)3 13.8 12.6 12.0 11.1 9.4 
Net positive water (water returned   restored) progress 90% 90% 86% 77% 79% 
Total waste generated (thousand tons) % to landfill4 414 5% 387 3% 205 7% 183 9% 177 7% 
Supply Chain Responsibility 
On-site supplier audits (third-party and Intel-led audits) 126 207 221 170 157 
Diversity and Inclusion 
Percentage of women in our global workforce 28% 28% 27% 27% 26% 
Percentage of women on our Board (%)5 30% 20% 20% 17% 18% 
Social Impact 
Employee and retiree volunteer hours (in millions) volunteerism rate 0.91 20% 1.2 39% 1.5 64% 1.2 36% 1.2 38% 
Worldwide charitable giving (dollars in millions)6  80.4  75.1  84.2  89.6  122.7 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
4  We updated the definition of  total waste  in 2020 to align with our 2030 goal. Our new 2030 goal total waste  
5  Note that if all of the director nominees are elected at our 2021 Annual Stockholder Meeting, this will   
6 Includes total giving (cash and in-kind) from Intel Corporation and the Intel Foundation. 
definition includes hazardous waste and non-hazardous solid waste, as well as additional non-hazardous  liquid waste and chemical debris. 
increase to 33%. 
80 intel.com responsibility 
1  The  Intel Metric or Qualitative Disclosure  column references the specific disclosure(s) included in the 2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report and therefore may vary from the breadth and context of disclosure(s) included in  
the 2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K and 2021 Proxy Statement, if applicable. 
SASB and TCFD Framework Alignment 
Based on feedback gathered during our integrated investor outreach activities, we have aligned our disclosure with two additional frameworks: the Sustainability Accounting Standards  Board Standards (SASB) and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Below is a mapping of  how our latest disclosure aligns with these frameworks. 
SASB. SASB has developed voluntary industry-specific disclosure standards for sustainability issues in order to facilitate communication by companies to investors of   decision-useful information. Below, we have outlined how our existing disclosure aligns with the recommended metrics for the SASB Technology and Communications   Sector   Semiconductor Standard. 
Appendix  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Topic Accounting Metrics Code Intel Metric or Qualitative Disclosure Disclosure Location1 
Greenhouse Gas  Emissions 
Greenhouse Gas  Emissions 
Energy  Management in  Manufacturing 
Water  Management 
Waste  Management 
Employee Health    Safety 
Employee Health    Safety 
(1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions and   (2) amount of total emissions from  perfluorinated compounds 
Discussion of long-term and short-term  strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions,  emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of  performance against those targets 
(1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid  electricity, and (3) percentage renewable 
(1) Total water withdrawn and (2) total water  consumed, percentage of each in regions with  High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress 
(1) Amount of hazardous waste from  manufacturing, (2) percentage recycled 
Description of efforts to assess, monitor, and  reduce exposure of employees to human   health hazards 
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of  legal proceedings associated with employee  health and safety violations 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
TC-SC-110a.1 (1) 1.97 Million Metric Tonnes CO2e   (2) 0.96 Million Metric Tonnes CO2e  
TC-SC-110a.2 We discuss our strategy and long history of goal setting and  reductions. We have also achieved a 28% absolute reduction of  Scope 1 and 2 emissions since 2000, even as we expanded our  manufacturing capacity significantly. 
TC-SC-130a.1 (1) 38 million gigajoules energy consumed (2) 83% grid  electricity (3) 82% renewable energy globally. 
TC-SC-140a.1 (1) 52.3 million m  withdrawn (2) 12.9 million m  consumed.  See Appendix for detail on water metrics by location, including  information on baseline waster stress by location. 
TC-SC-150a.1 (1) 143,000 tons (2) 78% recycled. 2020-21 Corporate Responsibility  Report, p 66 
TC-SC-320a.1 We disclose our strategy for employee health, safety and  wellness, including our company-wide certification to ISO 45001. 
TC-SC-320a.2  0 in 2020 2020-21 Corporate Responsibility  Report, p 88 
2020-21 Corporate Responsibility  Report, p 61 
CDP Climate Change Survey 
2020-21 Corporate Responsibility  Report, p 60 
2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K,  p 15 
2021 Proxy Statement, p 51 
CDP Climate Change Survey 
2020-21 Corporate Responsibility  Report, p 60 and p 62 
2020-21 Corporate Responsibility  Report, p 64 and p 86 
2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K,  p 15  
2021 Proxy Statement, p 52 
2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K,  p 16 
2021 Proxy Statement, p 52 
2020-21 Corporate Responsibility  Report, p 35 
2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K,  p 14  
2021 Proxy Statement, p 50 
81 intel.com responsibility 
SASB and TCFD Framework Alignment, continued 
Appendix  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Topic Accounting Metrics Code Intel Metric or Qualitative Disclosure Disclosure Location 
Recruiting    Managing a  Global   Skilled  Workforce 
Product Lifecycle  Management 
Product Lifecycle  Management 
Materials  Sourcing 
IP Protection    Competitive  Behavior 
Percentage of employees that are: (1) foreign  nationals and (2) located offshore 
Percentage of products by revenue that contain  IEC 62474 declarable substances 
Processor energy efficiency at a system-level for:  (1) servers, (2) desktops, and (3) laptops 
Description of the management of risks  associated with the use of critical materials 
Total amount of monetary losses as a result  of legal proceedings associated with anti- competitive behavior regulations 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
TC-SC-330a.1 We do not disclose the first metric as we do not believe a  single percentage of foreign nationals is a useful metric for our  business given our global business model, but we do disclose  a breakdown of our workforce by region (47% of employees  in the US and 53% outside of the US). We disclose additional  human capital metrics that we believe are more effective for  assessing this aspect of our performance, including diversity and  inclusion, employee engagement, training and development, and  responsible supply chain metrics. 
TC-SC-410a.1 While we do disclose information on our strategy and approach  to product ecology and supplier requirements for declarable  substances, we do not believe a single percentage of revenue   is an effective metric for evaluating risk and performance in   this area. 
TC-SC-410a.2 We do not disclose single percentages for these product  categories, given the wide range of products we produce in each  category and the continued release of new products. We believe  more decision-useful information is our disclosure regarding our  overall strategy for product energy efficiency, supporting goals,  industry collaborations, and public policy engagements. 
TC-SC-440a.1 We provide disclosure on our management approach to  responsible minerals sourcing. With respect to rare earth  elements, Intel has thoroughly reviewed product and supply  chain impacts and determined that although certain regional  supplies may fluctuate, Intel has sufficient existing supply,  alternative sourcing, and or low risk material availability within  our manufacturing and supply chain. Intel has confirmed that  access to rare earth mineral supplies represents a low risk to  impact production or delivery of goods.  
TC-SC-520a.1 Information on legal proceedings is disclosed in our Annual  Report on Form 10-K and in our Quarterly Reports on Form   10-Q, available on our Investor Relations website. 
2020-21 Corporate Responsibility  Report, p 19, p 30, p 35, and p 45  
2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K,  p 13 
2020-21 Corporate Responsibility  Report, p 58  
Material Declaration Data Sheet (MDDS)  database website 
2020-21 Corporate Responsibility  Report, p 63, p 66, and p 69 
2020-21 Corporate Responsibility  Report, p 39  
SEC Conflict Minerals Filing 
Intel Statement on Rare Earth 
2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K,  p 106  
Investor Relations website 
82 intel.com responsibility 
SASB and TCFD Framework Alignment, continued 
TCFD. TCFD has developed a voluntary framework for use by companies to provide information to investors, lenders, insurers, and other stakeholders on climate-related financial  risk disclosure. Below, we have outlined how our existing reporting aligns with the recommended disclosure. We will continue to evaluate opportunities to evolve our disclosure  moving forward based on discussions with our investors and stakeholders. 
Appendix  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Disclosure Area TCFD Recommended Disclosure Intel Metric or Qualitative Disclosure Disclosure Location 
Governance Disclose the organization s governance  around climate-related risks and  disclosures. 
Strategy Disclosure of the actual and potential  impacts of climate-related risks and  opportunities on the organization s  businesses, strategy, and financial  planning where such information is  material. 
Risk Management Disclose how the organization  identifies, assesses, and manages  climate-related risks. 
Metrics   and Targets 
Disclosure of the metrics and targets  used to assess and manage relevant  climate-related risks and opportunities  where such information is material. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Responsibility for oversight of CSR issues, including climate change, has been included in  the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter since 2003. Intel follows  an integrated approach to addressing climate change with multiple teams responsible for  managing climate-related activities, initiatives, and policies, including manufacturing and  operations, government and public affairs, supply chain, and product teams. Strategies,  progress toward goals, and regulatory developments are reviewed with senior executives  from these teams on a regular basis. 
We describe our climate-related risks and opportunities in our Corporate Responsibility  Report (in the  Our Business  and  Climate and Energy  sections), the Intel Climate Change  Policy Statement, and the risk-factors section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. We  focus on reducing our own direct climate  footprint  the emissions resulting from our own  operations, our supply chain, and the marketing and use of our products. We also focus on  increasing our  handprint  the ways in which Intel  technologies help others reduce their  footprints. In addition, we collaborate with others to drive industry-wide improvements and  policy change. For two decades, we have set aggressive greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction  goals to conserve energy and minimize air emissions. Over that time, our Scope 1 and 2  emissions have decreased by about 28% on an absolute basis. In 2020, we continued to  assess approaches for incorporating climate scenario analysis into our existing risk and  opportunity assessment processes and plan to conduct a formal scenario analysis in 2021. 
Our overall approach to risk management is described in our Proxy Statement and our risk  factors are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional detail on our proactive  efforts to reduce our climate change impacts is included in our Corporate Responsibility  Report, primarily in the Climate and Energy section as well as our CDP Climate Change  Survey. This includes detail regarding our investments in green power, energy conservation,  and product energy efficiency. For example, in 2020, we continued our 100% green power  purchase commitment for our US and European operations, reached 100% renewable  energy in Israel and Malaysia, and 82% globally. We also conserved 161 million kWh  of energy in 2020. We also describe our proactive engagements with policymakers on  climate and energy issues in our Corporate Responsibility Report and the Intel Climate  Change Policy. We proactively engage with our stakeholders to understand impacts of  both potential regulatory requirements and also changing expectations of stakeholders,  including our investors, customers, and local communities.  
Our public climate-related metrics, goals and targets, as well as our Scope 1, 2, and 3  emissions data are included in our annual Corporate Responsibility Report and also  reported through the CDP Climate Change Survey. 
2020-21 Corporate Responsibility  Report, p 23 
2021 Proxy Statement, p 29 and p 36 
CDP Climate Change Survey 
2020-21 Corporate Responsibility   Report, p 60 
2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K,  p 15 and p 58 
Intel Climate Change Policy 
CDP Climate Change Survey 
2020-21 Corporate Responsibility  Report, p 23 and p 60 
2020 Intel Annual Report on Form 10-K,   p 15 and p 58 
2021 Proxy Statement, p 29 
Intel Climate Change Policy 
CDP Climate Change Survey 
2020-21 Corporate Responsibility  Report, p 61 
CDP Climate Change Survey 
83 intel.com responsibility 
UN Sustainable Development Goals 
The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are aimed at stimulating action in areas of critical importance for humanity and the planet. We believe that the achievement   of the SDGs will be critical to creating a life of dignity and opportunity for all, and we believe technology will play a key role in achieving the SDGs. We use the goals below  to inform the ongoing development of our strategies, initiatives, and long-term priorities, including our new 2030 strategy and goals. We believe that information and com- munications technology (ICT) can play an enabling role in the implementation of all of the SDGs. Intel, Nethope, and the UN Foundation developed an SDG ICT Playbook that  outlines technology trends, opportunities, and innovative case studies that global leaders can reference as they develop their strategies and actions to address the SDGs.  Responsible 
Appendix  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
1  We recognize certified diverse suppliers as businesses that are at least 51% owned, operated, and  
Through our employee health, safety, and wellness goals and our supplier  health and safety requirements, we promote good health and well-being.  Our efforts are designed to protect vulnerable workers throughout the global  supply chain, and include setting clear supplier expectations and investing  in assessments, audits, and capability-building programs. We collectively  address issues through our leadership in the Responsible Business Alliance,  including industry initiatives on key issues such as advancing responsible  minerals sourcing, addressing human rights risks such as forced and bonded  labor, and improving transparency on the environmental impacts in the global  electronics supply chain. 
controlled by any of the following categories: women  minorities as recognized by the country where  the business was established  veterans military service-disabled veterans  persons who are lesbian, gay,  bisexual, or transgender  or persons with disabilities. 
SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning 
SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower women and girls 
SDG 8: Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment, and decent  work for all 
SDG 10: Reduce inequality within and among countries 
SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 
SDG 8: Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment, and decent  work for all 
SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 
To shape the future of technology, we believe we must be representative of  that future. Since 2019, we have achieved gender pay equity globally and  maintained racial ethnic pay equity in the US. We also met our commitment   to reach more than  1 billion in annual spending with tier 1 and tier 2 certi- fied diverse suppliers,1 and collaborate with others to encourage more women  and underrepresented minorities to enter and succeed in technology careers.  We provide our expertise and both financial and in-kind support to help   communities, governments, NGOs, and educators achieve their goals.  
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Sustainable  
We advance the SDGs above also through the application of our technology and the   expertise and passion of our employees. Through the Intel RISE Technology Initiative, we  are funding technology projects to drive social and environmental impact in partnership  with our customers. We also encourage our employees to share their experience, talents,  and passions in communities around the world, and provide volunteer opportunities to   help address local and global problems. The Intel Foundation acts as a catalyst for change  by amplifying the investments of Intel employees across a broad spectrum of personal  philanthropy and volunteerism and by working with NGOs, nonprofits, and governments   on innovative programs that support underserved and disenfranchised populations.  
We have made significant investments and set aggressive goals to reduce   the environmental footprint of our global manufacturing operations,   including goals and policies on climate change and water conservation. We  have established new 2030 sustainability goals, and will continue to invest   in conservation projects, alternative energy, and product energy efficiency.  We collaborate with governments, leading companies, and nonprofits on  innovative environmental projects, and proactively invest in our technology   handprint  to empower others to use Intel technology to reduce their envi- ronmental footprints and support sustainable consumption and production.  In 2020, we also made progress toward our 2030 net positive water use goal. 
SDG 6: Ensure access to water and sanitation for all 
SDG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all 
SDG 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization  and foster innovation 
SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 
SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 
84 intel.com responsibility 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures 
Following are the reconciliations of our most comparable US GAAP measures to our non-GAAP measures presented: 
Appendix  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Years Ended (In Millions, Except per Share Amounts) Dec. 29, 2020 Dec. 29, 2019 Dec. 29, 2018 Dec. 30, 2017 
Years Ended (In Millions) Dec. 28, 2020 Dec. 28, 2019 Dec. 29, 2018 Dec. 30, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 
Operating Income  23,678  22,035  23,316  18,050 
Non-GAAP Operating Income 25,292  23,752  24,549  19,691 
Earnings per Share   Diluted  4.94  4.71  4.48  1.99 
Non-GAAP Earnings per Share   Diluted  5.35  4.87  4.58  3.46 
Net cash provided by operating activities  35,384  33,145  29,432  22,110  21,808 
Free cash flow  21,125  16,932  14,251  10,332  12,183 
Net cash used for investing activities ( 20,796) ( 14,405) ( 11,239) ( 15,762) ( 25,817) 
Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities ( 12,917) ( 17,565) ( 18,607) ( 8,475) ( 5,739) 
Acquisition-related adjustments 1,416 1,324 1,305 1,257 
Restructuring and other charges 198 393 (72) 384 
Acquisition-related adjustments 0.33 0.29 0.28 0.25 
Restructuring and other charges  0.05 0.09 (0.02) 0.08 
(Gains) losses from divestiture   (0.16) (0.11) (0.08) 
Ongoing mark-to-market on marketable equity securities 0.03 (0.06) 0.03   
Tax reform     (0.06) 1.13 
Income tax effect     (0.02) 0.09 
Additions to property, plant, and equipment (14,259) (16,213) (15,181) (11,778) (9,625) 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
85 intel.com responsibility 
Intel 2020 Water Inventory by Location and Source 
The following table details our water use, discharge, consumption, and conservation by source and destination for Intel sites around the world. Our fresh water withdrawals totaled  13.9 billion gallons (52.4 megaliters) in 2020. Approximately 78% of the water used at our sites was sent back to municipal treatment operations, where it was treated so that it  could be used for other purposes or to recharge surface or groundwater sources. For additional information, see the Sustainable section of this report. To prepare our global water  inventory, we follow established internal procedures for collecting, reviewing, and reporting water data. Internal data collection and reporting practices are outlined within corpo- rate standards and guidance documents developed by Intel. After a corporate-wide inventory was prepared, it was reviewed internally and water conservation data were assured  by Apex Companies LLC (see the  Independent Limited Assurance Statement  in this Appendix).  
Reported in Megaliters per Year 
  We follow established internal procedures and thresholds to determine which sites are included in the inventory.    
  Third-party water withdrawals represent water purchased from the local municipality. 
   Third-party water discharges returns represent water sent to the local municipality for reuse or surface groundwater recharge. 
  Sites located in area experiencing extremely high water stress, based on WRI s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (2021). 
5 Site located in area experiencing high water stress, based on WRI s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (2021). 
Appendix  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Costa Rica San Jose         0.04 311 311 311 89 222 1 Ground Surface San Juan River 
India Bangalore:  Sarjapur5 100       24   124 124   124 75 Surface N A (Zero  discharge) 
Ireland Leixlip 7,125           7,125 7,125 6,533 592 1,665 Surface Surface Shannon River 
Mexico Guadalajara   63         63 63 2 61 11 Surface Surface Lerma-Santiago  River 
Poland Gdansk   7         7 7 6 1 1 Ground Sea Wisla River 
Chengdu 920           920 920 424 496   Surface Surface Yangtze River 
Dalian 10,701           10,701 10,701 10,034 667 3,129 Surface Sea Pearl River 
Shanghai   Zizhu4 73     0.4   73 73 66 7 0 Surface,  Ground Surface Yangtze River 
Haifa5 26 106       26 132 53 79 13 Sea   
Jerusalem5 10 38       10 48 36 12   
Qiryat Gat5 869 3,475       869 4,344 1,941 2,403 3,394 
Kulim 648           648 648 38 610 19 
Penang 944           944 944 172 772 72 Pulua Pinang  River 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Surface   Water   Sources 
Fresh  Water  from  
Third-Party Water Withdrawals2   
(Purchased water sources) 
Ground   Water   Sources 
Water Withdrawals by Source (Total water usage)   Megaliters per Year 
Fresh   Water   from  
Water   Sources 
Reclaimed  
(Rainwater) 
Water Withdrawals  
Surface   Water   Source   
(On-site water  
Ground  Water   Source   (On-site  
Withdrawals  
(All sources) 
Total  Fresh  Water  
Withdrawals  
(All sources) 
Total   Water  
Discharged3 
Consumption 
(Secondary) 
(Primary)    Surface    Ground  
Surface Surface 
Water  Source 
(Of municipality) River Basin 
Discharge  Destination  
(Secondary) 
(Primary)   Third-Party  
86 intel.com responsibility 
Arkavathi and   Cauvery Rivers 
Mediterranean  Sea (Coastal  aquifer) 
Kedah River 
Intel 2020 Water Inventory by Location and Source, continued 
Reported in Megaliters per Year 
  We follow established internal procedures and thresholds to determine which sites are included in the inventory.    
  Third-party water withdrawals represent water purchased from the local municipality. 
   Third-party water discharges returns represent water sent to the local municipality for reuse or surface groundwater recharge. 
  Sites located in area experiencing extremely high water stress, based on WRI's Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (2021). 
5 Site located in area experiencing high water stress, based on WRI s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (2021). 
6 Updated on June 18, 2021 to reflect both surface and ground water sources based on new information provided by the City of Chandler, AZ. 
Appendix  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
United  States 
Vietnam Ho Chi Minh City 588           588 588 155 433 275 Surface Surface Mekong River 
Total 49,358 3,619 4,232 24 3,048 52,428 60,279 47,261 13,017 26,799 
Arizona:  Chandler5,6 2,390         2,390 2,390 840 1,550 536 Surface,  Ground 
Arizona: Ocotillo5,6 13,320   4,166     13,320 17,486 15,452 2,034 7,115 
California:  Bowers -   Santa Clara 
Santa Clara  River California: Folsom5 332           332 332 56 276   
California:   Misson     Santa Clara 
New Mexico:   Rio Rancho5   127       2,737 2,864 2,864 2,669 195 1,375 Ground Surface Bravo River 
Oregon: Aloha 1,062           1,062 1,062 760 302   
Oregon:  Hawthorn Farm 76           76 76 57 19 10 
Oregon:   Jones Farm 545           545 545 409 136   
Oregon:   Ronler Acres 8,827           8,827 8,827 7,038 1,789 9,084 
Texas: Austin 61           61 61 45 16   Surface Surface Colorado River 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
Surface   Water   Sources 
Fresh  Water  from  
196           196 196 127 69 25 
346     66     346 412 260 152   
Third-Party Water Withdrawals2   
(Purchased Water Sources) 
Ground   Water   Sources 
Water Withdrawals by Source (total water usage)   Megaliters per Year 
Fresh   Water   from  
Water   Sources 
Reclaimed  
(Rainwater) 
Water Withdrawals  
Surface   Water   Source   
(On-site Water  
Ground  Water   Source   (On-site  
Withdrawals  
(All sources) 
Total  Fresh  Water  
Withdrawals  
(All sources) 
Total   Water  
Discharged3 
Consumption 
Surface Surface  to Sea 
Surface Surface Columbia River 
Water  Source 
Discharge  Destination  (of municipality) River Basin 
Third Party 
87 intel.com responsibility 
Colorado   Salt River 
2020 Environmental, Health, and Safety Violations 
Each year we share information about regulator visits to Intel sites across the globe and Notices of Violation received over the course of the year. In 2020, government officials  made 130 visits (including audits and inspections) to Intel sites across the globe, including 46 health and safety agency inspections, 30 fire protection agency inspections, and 54  environmental agency inspections. Details on NOVs1 and our subsequent corrective actions are provided in the table below. 
Appendix  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Location Violation Fine Intel s Corrective Action 
Chandler, AZ A non-compliant tag was observed on a kitchen suppression system.  0 Kitchen suppression system was upgraded. All Chandler fire alarm  system inspection and testing reports were transmitted to the fire  department, with no follow-up queries or correspondence. 
Rio Rancho, NM Sprinkler system gauges needed testing, ceiling tiles were missing, emergency lighting  and exit sign illumination deficiencies, blocked egress, missing fire extinguishers, and  other miscellaneous findings most of which were in unoccupied buildings. 
Leixlip, Ireland The necessary monitoring ports to conduct air emissions monitoring in accordance  with the site s industrial emissions license were missing. 
Aloha, OR The pH level at the site outfall compliance point dropped below the permit limit  during construction on a sulfuric acid supply line. 
San Diego, CA Exit door required excessive force to open, and ceiling tile, penetration seal, and  electric cover plates were missing. 
Ronler Acres, OR Fire sprinkler system had deficiencies  penetration seals, ceiling tiles, and signage were  missing  other deficiencies were reported related to housekeeping, storage, and fire  extinguishers.  
Aloha, OR The decommissioning of a chemical monitoring pump resulted in a temporary drop  in the pH level at the site outfall compliance point below the permit level. 
Bangalore, India Did not meet wastewater permit levels at the sewage treatment plant in September  2018. Intel paid the penalty under protest and requested that the authorities consider  Intel s concurrent sampling test results, which had been sent to an accredited lab and  showed that wastewater was within permit limits at the time. 
Aloha, OR EPA Oregon Department of Environmental Quality joint inspection revealed missing  record operating information, equipment labels, and monitoring information for valves  and pumps. 
1 Our definition of an NOV includes any written notice from an agency stating Intel is not in compliance with a regulation or other legal requirement, including administrative items. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
 0 Intel has addressed and reported on the status of findings.   Findings related to larger projects have an estimated completion  date of Q3 2021.  
 0 Intel installed two new monitoring ports at the required location,  adjusted equipment to improve access to the monitoring ports,   and reviewed all other stacks at the site to ensure full compliance  with standards. 
 100 Clean Water Services was notified within the two-hour window  required for the wastewater permit. 
 0 Intel corrected findings and validated closure for the   inspecting agency.  
 0 All issues were corrected, and vendor technicians completed  retraining on fire system inspection, testing, and maintenance  expectations. 
 100 Clean Water Services was notified within the two-hour window  required for the wastewater permit. Intel implemented enhanced  labeling and work procedures to address future occurrences of this  type. 
 6,886 Intel is upgrading the wastewater treatment plant to achieve 50%  higher efficiency than the current regulatory requirement. 
 0 Intel enhanced labeling, auditing, and recordkeeping procedures for  all valves and pumps, and conducted a comprehensive Resource  Conservation and Recovery Act audit of the site. 
88 intel.com responsibility 
Top 100 Production and Service Suppliers by Spends 
These companies represent approximately 75% of Intel s total supply chain spends in 2020. 
Table updated on June 18, 2021 to reflect the most current supplier names. 
  Suppliers that received a 2020 Supplier Continuous Quality Improvement (SCQI) award. 
   Suppliers that received a 2020 Preferred Quality Supplier (PQS) award. 
   Supplier additionally recognized for Distinction in Supplier Diversity. 
  Supplier additionally recognized for Distinction in Safety. 
Appendix  2020-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Achronix Semiconductor Corporation Dentsu Group, Inc. JE Dunn Construction Powertech Technology Inc. 
Advanced Semiconductor Engineering Deutsche Post DHL Group9 JLL7 Quanta Computer Inc. 
Advantest America Inc DSV Panalpina A S9 JSR Corporation Rinchem Company Inc. 
AEM Singapore Pte. Ltd.9 DuPont JX Nippon Mining   Metals Corporation2 Samsung Electro-Mechanics Co., Ltd. 
AGC Inc.8 EBARA Corporation KellyOCG7 Samsung Semiconductor, Inc. 
Air Liquide Edwards Ltd Keysight Technologies, Inc.8 SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions Co., Ltd. 
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. Elitegroup Computer Systems Co., LTD. KLA Corporation8 Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd.2 
Amkor Technology, Inc. Entegris, Inc. Kokusai Electric Corporation2 Shinko Electric Industries Co. LTD. 
Analog Devices, Inc. Exyte Lam Research Corporation1,3 SiliconMotion 
Applied Materials, Inc.1,3 Fabrinet Lasertec Corporation2 Siltronic AG1 
Arm Limited Flex9 Linde SIRVA Worldwide, Inc. 
ASM International N.V.2,4 FormFactor, Inc. Marvell Technology Group, Ltd. SK Hynix Inc. 
ASML2 FUJIFILM Electronic Materials Mentor Graphics Corporation Skanska USA Building Inc. 
AT S Austria Technologie   Systemtechnik AG2 Gemtek Technology Co., Ltd.9 Merck KGaA Darmstadt, Germany SUEZ Water Technologies   Solutions 
Avantor9 GLOBALFOUNDRIES Micron Technology, Inc SUMCO Corporation2 
Azurewave Technologies GlobalWafers Co., LTD. Microsoft Corporation9 Sundt Construction, Inc. 
BE Semiconductor Industries N.V. Harder Mechanical Contractors Mitac Holdings Corporation Super Micro Computer, Inc9  
Broadcom Inc. HCL Technologies Limited6,9 Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company Inc. Synopsis, Inc.2,5   
Cadence Design Systems Inc.9 Hensel Phelps Moses Lake Industries (TAMA Chemicals)2 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing  Company, Limited1   
CMC Materials, Inc. Hitachi High-Tech Corporation2 Murata Machinery, Ltd.2 Tokyo Electron Limited1 
Compass Group PLC Hoffman Construction MWH Constructors, Inc. Tokyo Ohka Kogyo Co., LTD2 
Courier Network Inc.9 Honeywell Electronic Materials NetApp Ultra Clean Technologies (UCT)9  
Cymer IBIDEN Co., LTD. Nikon Corporation Unimicron Technology Corporation 
Daifuku Co., LTD Infosys Limited9 NNR Global Logistics United Microelectronics Corp 
DB Schenker9 Jacobs Engineering Group, Inc. Pegatron Corporation UST Holdings Ltd. 
Introduction Our Business Responsible Inclusive Sustainable Enabling Appendix 
5 Supplier additionally recognized for Distinction in Innovation. 
6  Supplier that received a 2020 Supplier Achievement (SAA) award for extraordinary results in cost. 
7  Supplier that received a 2020 Supplier Achievement (SAA) award for extraordinary results in supplier diversity.  
8 Supplier that received a 2020 Supplier Achievement (SAA) award for extraordinary results in technology. 
9  Supplier that received a 2020 Supplier Achievement (SAA) award for extraordinary results in COVID-19  
89 intel.com responsibility 
www.intel.com News and information about Intel   products and technologies, customer  support, careers, worldwide locations,  corporate responsibility and  sustainability, and more.  
www.intc.com Stock information, earnings and  conference webcasts, annual reports,  and corporate governance and  historical financial information. 
  2021 Intel Corporation. Intel, the Intel logo, and other Intel marks are trademarks of   Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries. Other names and brands may be claimed as the   property of others. 