(Mark One) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes x No emerging growth company. See the definitions of large accelerated filer, accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, and emerging growth company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.: revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. calculation that all Directors and executive officers of the registrant are affiliates ) as of June 28, 2019 was approximately 72,160,040,688. Shareholders to be held May 21, 2020. Large accelerated filer Accelerated filer Non-accelerated filer Smaller reporting company Emerging growth company Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes x No Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes No x Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes No x The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant (assuming solely for the purposes of this As of February 6, 2020, 252,329,919 shares of the Registrant s Common Stock were outstanding. Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K incorporates by reference information from the registrant s Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Common Stock, Par Value 0.01 ANTM New York Stock Exchange Title of each class Trading symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) Indiana 35-2145715 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (800) 331-1476 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE For the transition period from to (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Commission file number: 001-16751 ANTHEM, INC. SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 UNITED STATES Washington, D.C. 20549 Indianapolis, Indiana 46204 220 Virginia Avenue (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number) PART II PART III PART IV SIGNATURES 158 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 22 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS 39 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 39 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 40 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 40 ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 41 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 43 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 44 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 68 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 70 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 142 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 142 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 145 ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 145 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 145 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 145 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 146 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 146 ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 147 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 151 For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents Anthem, Inc. and, unless the context otherwise requires, its direct and indirect subsidiaries. References to the term states include the District of Columbia, unless the context otherwise requires. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements reflect our views about future events and financial performance and are generally not historical facts. Words such as expect, feel, believe, will, may, should, anticipate, intend, estimate, project, forecast, plan and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to: financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward- looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. You are also urged to carefully review and consider the various risks and other disclosures discussed in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, which attempt to advise interested parties of the factors that affect our business. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: trends in healthcare costs and utilization rates our ability to secure sufficient premium rates, including regulatory approval for and implementation of such rates the impact of federal and state regulation, including ongoing changes in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, as amended, or collectively, the ACA, and the ultimate outcome of legal challenges to the ACA our ability to contract with providers on cost-effective and competitive terms competitive pressures and our ability to adapt to changes in the industry and develop and implement strategic growth opportunities reduced enrollment unauthorized disclosure of member or employee sensitive or confidential information, including the impact and outcome of any investigations, inquiries, claims and litigation related thereto risks and uncertainties regarding Medicare and Medicaid programs, including those related to non-compliance with the complex regulations imposed thereon our ability to maintain and achieve improvement in Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, Star ratings and other quality scores and funding risks with respect to revenue received from participation therein a negative change in our healthcare product mix costs and other liabilities associated with litigation, government investigations, audits or reviews the ultimate outcome of litigation between Cigna Corporation, or Cigna, and us related to the merger agreement between the parties and the potential for such litigation to cause us to incur substantial additional costs, including potential settlement and judgment costs risks and uncertainties related to our pharmacy benefit management, or PBM, business, including non-compliance by any party with the PBM services agreements between us and each of Express Scripts, Inc., or Express Scripts, and CaremarkPCS Health, L.L.C., or CVS Health, as well as agreements governing the transition of pharmacy benefit management services provided to us from Express Scripts to CVS Health Corporation medical malpractice or professional liability claims or other risks related to healthcare services and PBM services provided by our subsidiaries general risks associated with mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and other intangible assets possible restrictions in the payment of dividends from our subsidiaries and increases in required minimum levels of capital our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock and pay dividends on our common stock due to the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other considerations the potential negative effect from our substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness a downgrade in our financial strength ratings the effects of any negative publicity related to the health benefits industry in general or us in particular failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information systems events that may negatively affect our licenses with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association large scale medical emergencies, such as future public health epidemics and catastrophes changes in economic and market conditions, as well as regulations that may negatively affect our liquidity and investment portfolios the impact of international laws and regulations changes in U.S. tax laws intense competition to attract and retain employees and various laws and provisions in our governing documents that may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations. References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the terms we, our, us, Anthem or the Company refer to Anthem, Inc., an Indiana corporation, ITEM 1. BUSINESS. through our affiliated health plans as of December 31, 2019. We are an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, or BCBSA, an association of independent health benefit plans. We serve our members as the Blue Cross licensee for California and as the Blue Cross and Blue Shield, or BCBS, licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (in the New York City metropolitan area and upstate New York), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.) and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas, we do business as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, and Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield or Empire Blue Cross. We also conduct business through arrangements with other BCBS licensees as well as other strategic partners. Through our subsidiaries, we also serve customers in numerous states across the country as Aim Specialty Health, Amerigroup, Aspire Health, CareMore, Freedom Health, HealthLink, HealthSun, Optimum HealthCare, Simply Healthcare, and or UniCare. Also, in the second quarter of 2019, we began providing pharmacy benefits management, or PBM, services through our IngenioRx subsidiary. We are licensed to conduct insurance operations in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through our subsidiaries. self-funded Anthem health plan customers throughout the country, as well as to customers outside of the health plans we own. This comprehensive product portfolio includes features such as drug formularies, a pharmacy network, prescription drug database, member services and mail order capabilities. In July 2019, we announced our first contract win with a third-party health insurer, Blue Cross of Idaho, and we began providing PBM services under that contract beginning on January 1, 2020. Also beginning in the second quarter of 2019, we began delegating certain PBM administrative functions, such as claims processing and prescription fulfillment, to CaremarkPCS Health, L.L.C., or CVS Health, which is a subsidiary of CVS Health Corporation, pursuant to a five-year agreement with CVS Health, or the CVS PBM Agreement. We intend to retain the responsibilities for IngenioRx s clinical and formulary strategy and development, member and employer experiences, operations, sales, marketing, account management and retail network strategy. From December 2009 through December 2019, we delegated certain PBM functions and administrative services to Express Scripts, Inc., or Express Scripts, pursuant our PBM agreement with Express Scripts, or the ESI PBM Agreement. In January 2019, we exercised our contractual right to terminate the ESI PBM Agreement earlier than the original expiration date of December 31, 2019, due to the acquisition of Express Scripts by Cigna Corporation, or Cigna. We began transitioning existing members from Express Scripts to IngenioRx in the second quarter of 2019, and completed the transition of all of our members on January 1, 2020. Prior to the termination of the ESI PBM Agreement, Express Scripts managed the network of pharmacy providers, operated mail order pharmacies and processed prescription drug claims on our behalf, while we sold and supported the product for our members, made formulary decisions, sold drug benefit design strategy and provided front line member support. We expect IngenioRx to provide our members with more cost-effective solutions and improve our ability to integrate pharmacy benefits within our medical and specialty platform. Notwithstanding our termination of the ESI PBM Agreement, the litigation between us and Express Scripts regarding the ESI PBM Agreement continues. In March 2016, we filed a lawsuit against Express Scripts seeking to recover damages for pharmacy pricing that is higher than competitive benchmark pricing and damages related to operational breaches. Express Scripts filed an answer to the lawsuit disputing our contractual claims and alleging various defenses and counterclaims. For additional information regarding this lawsuit, see Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Express Scripts, Inc. Pharmacy Benefit Management Litigation, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. health organization in the country. Beacon serves approximately 40 million individuals across all 50 states. This acquisition aligns with our strategy to diversify into health services and deliver both integrated solutions and care delivery models that personalize care for people with complex and chronic conditions. The acquisition is expected to close in the first quarter of 2020 and is subject to standard closing conditions and customary approvals. We are one of the largest health benefits companies in the United States in terms of medical membership, serving approximately 41 million medical members In the second quarter of 2019, we began using our new pharmacy benefits manager called IngenioRx to market and sell a PBM product to fully-insured and On June 6, 2019, we announced our entrance into an agreement to acquire Beacon Health Options, Inc., or Beacon, the largest independently held behavioral Cigna have commenced litigation against the other seeking various actions and damages, including Cigna s damage claim for a 1.850 billion termination fee pursuant to the terms of the Cigna Merger Agreement. For additional information about the ongoing litigation related to the Cigna Merger Agreement, see Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Cigna Corporation Merger Litigation, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. seek to accomplish these goals through a collaborative focus on execution and delivering for those we serve, our vision is to be the most innovative, valuable and inclusive health partner. We focus on ensuring quality products and services that give members access to the care they need. With an unyielding commitment to meeting the needs of our diverse customers, we are guided by the following values: all Americans. care plans include: Preferred Provider Organizations, or PPOs Health Maintenance Organizations, or HMOs Point-of-Service, or POS, plans traditional indemnity plans and other hybrid plans, including Consumer-Driven Health Plans, or CDHPs and hospital only and limited benefit products. In addition, we provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers, including claims processing, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and other administrative services. We provide an array of specialty and other insurance products and services such as PBM services, dental, vision, life and disability insurance benefits, radiology benefit management and analytics-driven personal healthcare. We also provide services to the federal government in connection with our Federal Health Products & Services business, or FHPS, which administers the Federal Employees Health Benefits, or FEHB, Program. health insurance. HMO, PPO and hybrid plans are among the various forms of managed care products that have been developed. Through these types of products, insurers attempt to contain the cost of healthcare by negotiating contracts with hospitals, physicians and other providers to deliver high-quality healthcare to members at favorable rates. These products usually feature medical management and other quality and cost optimization measures such as pre-admission review and approval for certain non-emergency services, pre-authorization of outpatient surgical procedures, network credentialing to determine that network physicians and hospitals have the required certifications and expertise, and various levels of care management programs to help members better understand and navigate the healthcare system. In addition, providers may have incentives to achieve certain quality measures, may share medical cost risk or may have other incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. Also, certain plans offer members incentives for healthy behaviors, such as smoking cessation and weight management. Members are charged periodic, prepaid premiums and generally pay co-payments, coinsurance and or deductibles when they receive services. While the distinctions between the various types of plans have lessened over recent years, PPO, POS and CDHP products generally provide reduced benefits for out-of-network services, while traditional HMO products generally provide little to no reimbursement for non-emergency out-of-network utilization, but often offer more generous benefit coverage. An HMO plan may also require members to select one of the network primary care physicians, or PCPs, to coordinate their care and approve any specialist or other services. designs and provider network configurations. As a result, we continue to offer our broad access PPO networks with multiple benefit designs, but are also focused on leveraging our provider collaboration In May 2017, we announced that we were terminating the Agreement and Plan of Merger, or Cigna Merger Agreement, between us and Cigna. Both we and At Anthem, we believe in working together to achieve our mission of improving lives and communities, simplifying healthcare and expecting more. As we Leadership Redefine what is possible Community Committed, connected, invested Integrity Do the right thing, with a spirit of excellence Agility Delivery today, transform tomorrow Diversity Open your hearts and minds By striving to live our values each day and in every interaction, we are committed to simplifying as well as radically reinventing the healthcare experience for We offer a broad spectrum of network-based managed care plans to Large Group, Small Group, Individual, Medicaid and Medicare markets. Our managed An ongoing focus on healthcare costs by employers, the government and consumers has continued to drive the growth of alternatives to traditional indemnity Economic factors, greater consumer and employer sophistication and accountability have resulted in an increased demand for choice in both product benefit initiatives with our Accountable Care Organization, or ACO, partnerships to develop both narrow and tiered network offerings. This array of network and product configurations allows both the employer and the employee to design and select the combination of benefit designs (e.g., traditional PPOs, high deductibles, health reimbursement accounts, health savings accounts, PCP based products, tiered copays) and networks (e.g., broad, narrow, tiered, closed or exclusive provider, and open) that optimize choice, quality and price at the consumer, employer and market level. We believe we are well-positioned in each of our states to respond to these market preferences. fee for services and the employer or plan sponsor funds or reimburses us for the healthcare costs. In addition, we charge a premium to underwrite stop loss insurance for Local Group and National Account employers that maintain self-funded health plans. BCBS-branded business generally refers to members in our service areas licensed by the BCBSA. Non-BCBS-branded business refers to members in our non- BCBS-branded Amerigroup, Freedom Health, HealthSun, Optimum HealthCare and Simply Healthcare plans, as well as HealthLink and UniCare members. In addition to the above medical membership, we also serve customers who purchase one or more of our other products or services that are often ancillary to our health business. marketing efforts take into account the differing characteristics between the various customers served by us, as well as the unique needs of educational and public entities, labor groups, federal employee health and benefit programs, national employers and state-run programs servicing low-income, high-risk and underserved markets. Overall, we seek to establish pricing and product designs to provide value for our customers while achieving an appropriate level of profitability for each of our customer categories balanced with the competitive objective to grow market share. We believe that one of the keys to our success has been our focus on these distinct customer types, which better enables us to develop benefit plans and services that meet our customers unique needs. Further, IngenioRx was built to simplify pharmacy care and focus on the whole person, and we expect it will make it easier for our customers to achieve the best possible health outcomes at the lowest possible total cost of care. brokers and retail partnerships. Products for National Accounts and Local Group customers with a larger employee base are generally sold through independent brokers or consultants retained by the customer who work with industry specialists from our in-house sales force. In the Individual and Small Group markets, we offer on-exchange products through state- or federally-facilitated marketplaces, referred to as public exchanges, and off-exchange products. Federal subsidies are available for certain members, subject to income and family size, who purchase public exchange products. significant market value, especially when competing for very large multi-state employer groups. For example, each BCBS member company is able to utilize other BCBS licensees substantial provider networks and discounts when any BCBS member works or travels outside of the state in which their policy is written. This program is referred to as BlueCard and is a source of revenue when we provide member services in the states where we are the BCBS licensee to individuals who are customers of BCBS plans not affiliated with us. This program also provides a national provider network for our members when they travel to other states. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. providers of care to our members, product pricing, medical management and health and wellness programs, including service coordination and case management for addressing complex and specialized health care needs, innovative product design and our ability to maintain or achieve improvement in our CMS Star ratings. CMS Star ratings affect Medicare Advantage plan reimbursements as well as our eligibility to earn quality-based bonus payments for those plans. See Regulation herein for additional information on our CMS Star ratings. For our fully-insured products, we charge a premium and assume the risk for the cost of covered healthcare services. Under self-funded products, we charge a Our medical membership includes seven different customer types: Local Group, Individual, National Accounts, BlueCard , Medicare, Medicaid and FEHB. Our products are generally developed and marketed with an emphasis on the differing needs of our customers. In particular, our product development and We market our Individual, Medicare and certain Local Group products through direct marketing activities and an extensive network of independent agents, Being a licensee of the BCBS association of companies, of which there were 36 independent primary licensees including us as of December 31, 2019, provides For additional information describing each of our customer types, detailed marketing efforts and changes in medical membership over the last three years, see Our results of operations depend in large part on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage healthcare costs through effective contracting with other demographic characteristics continue to contribute to rising healthcare costs. Our managed care plans and products are designed to encourage providers and members to participate in quality, cost-effective health benefit programs by using the full range of our innovative medical management services, quality initiatives and financial incentives. Our market share and high business retention rates enable us to realize the long-term benefits of investing in preventive and early detection programs. Our ability to provide cost-effective health benefits products and services is enhanced through a disciplined approach to internal cost containment, prudent management of our risk exposure and successful integration of acquired businesses. In addition, our ability to manage selling, general and administrative costs continues to be a driver of our overall profitability. growth in our government-sponsored business exposes us to increased regulatory oversight. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, as amended, or collectively, the ACA, has changed and may continue to make broad-based changes to the U.S. healthcare system. The ACA presented us with new growth opportunities, but also introduced new risks, regulatory challenges and uncertainties, and required changes in the way products are designed, underwritten, priced, distributed and administered. Changes to our business environment are likely to continue as elected officials at the national and state levels continue to enact, and both elected officials and candidates for election continue to propose, significant modifications to existing laws and regulations, including changes to taxes and fees. In addition, the legal challenges regarding the ACA, including a federal district court decision invalidating the ACA, or the 2018 ACA Decision , which judgment has been stayed pending appeal, continue to contribute to this uncertainty. We will continue to evaluate the impact of the ACA as additional guidance is made available and any further developments or judicial rulings occur. For additional discussion, see Regulation herein and Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. change as a result of the quality and pricing of our health benefits products and services, aging population, economic conditions, changes in unemployment, acquisitions, entry into new markets and expansions in or exits from existing markets. These membership trends could be negatively impacted by various factors that could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations such as general economic downturns that result in business failures, failure to obtain new customers or retain existing customers, premium increases, benefit changes or our exit from a specific market. See Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors and Part II, Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. participate in rating regions where we have an appropriate level of confidence that these markets are on a path toward sustainability, including, but not limited to, factors such as expected financial performance, regulatory environment, and underlying market characteristics. We currently offer Individual ACA-compliant products in 91 of the 143 rating regions in which we operate. they are enrolled in with us. Further, we believe we are well-positioned to deliver what customers want: innovative, choice-based and affordable products distinctive service simplified transactions and better access to information for quality care. Our local presence, combined with our national expertise, has created opportunities for collaborative programs that reward physicians and hospitals for clinical quality and excellence. We feel that our commitment to health improvement and care management provides added value to customers and healthcare professionals. Ultimately, we believe that practical and sustainable improvements in healthcare must focus on improving healthcare quality while managing costs for total affordability. We have implemented initiatives driving payment innovation and partnering with providers to lower cost and improve the quality of healthcare for our members, and we continue to develop new and innovative ways to effectively manage risk and engage our members. Further, we are expanding our financial arrangements with providers to include payment models that encourage value-based care. We believe focusing on quality of care rather than volume of care is the foundation for improving patient outcomes. Our value-based payment model supports patient-centered care by improving collaboration between providers and health partners and delivering to our patients the right care, at the right time, in the right place. In addition, we are focused on achieving efficiencies from our national scale while optimizing service performance for our customers. Finally, we expect to continue to rationalize our portfolio of businesses and products Advances in medical technology, increases in specialty drug costs, increases in hospital expenditures and other provider costs, the aging of the population and The future results of our operations will also be impacted by certain external forces and resulting changes in our business model and strategy. The continuing In addition to the external forces discussed in the preceding paragraph, our results of operations are impacted by levels and mix of membership which can During 2019, we modestly expanded our participation in the Individual ACA-compliant market. Our strategy has been, and will continue to be, to only We believe healthcare is local and that we have the strong local presence required to understand and meet local customer needs with regard to any product and align our investments to capitalize on new opportunities to drive growth in our existing markets and expand into new markets in the future. improving internal operations. Our approach includes not only the sales and distribution of health benefits products on the Internet, but also implementing advanced capabilities that improve services benefiting customers, agents, brokers, and providers while optimizing administrative costs. These enhancements can also help improve the quality, coordination and safety of healthcare through increased communications between patients and their physicians. solutions and delivering quality products and services that give customers access to the care they need. At the same time, we will focus on earnings, organic membership growth, improvements in our operating cost structure, strategic acquisitions and the efficient use of capital. Significant Transactions influence how we conduct our business operations include: management and wellness programs (including health information), innovation, breadth and flexibility of products and benefits, expertise and reputation (including National Committee on Quality Assurance, or NCQA, accreditation status), brand recognition and financial stability. Our ability to attract and retain customers is substantially tied to our ability to distinguish ourselves from our competitors in these areas. has become a more important competitive factor, and we have made significant investments in technology to enhance our electronic interaction with providers, employers, customers and third parties. greater brand recognition over competitive product offerings. Our provider networks in our markets enable us to achieve efficiencies and distinctive service levels by allowing us to offer a broad range of health benefits to our customers on a more cost-effective basis than many of our competitors. We strive to distinguish our products through provider access, service, care management, product value and brand recognition. anticipated underlying medical trends. We believe our pricing and bid strategy, based on our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Competition pricing, government-sponsored programs bid activity, business consolidations, new strategic alliances, new competitors in the market, a proliferation of new products, technological advancements, the impact of legislative reform, and increased quality awareness and price sensitivity among customers. We continue to enhance interactions with customers, providers, brokers, agents, employees and other stakeholders through web-enabled technology and In pursuing our vision of being the most innovative, valuable and inclusive partner, we intend to transform healthcare by providing trusted and caring The significant transactions that have occurred over the last five years that have impacted or will impact our capital structure or that have influenced or will Launch of IngenioRx (2019) Acquisition of America s 1st Choice (2018) Acquisition of HealthSun Health Plans, Inc., or HealthSun (2017) Acquisition of Simply Healthcare Holdings, Inc., or Simply Healthcare (2015) and Use of Capital Board of Directors declarations of dividends on our common stock repurchases of our common stock and debt repurchases and new debt issuances (2019 and prior). We believe that participants in the managed care industry compete for customers based on quality of service, price, access to provider networks, access to care Also, a health plan s ability to interact with employers, customers and other third parties (including healthcare professionals) through electronic data transfer We believe our exclusive right to market products under the most recognized brand in the industry, BCBS, in our most significant markets provides us with Product pricing remains competitive and we strive to price our healthcare benefit products and design our Medicare and Medicaid bids consistent with For additional information regarding certain of these transactions, see Note 3, Business Acquisitions, Note 12, Debt, and Note 14, Capital Stock, to The managed care industry is highly competitive, both nationally and in our local markets. Competition continues to be intense due to aggressive marketing, predictive modeling, proprietary research and data-driven processes, has positioned us to benefit from the potential growth opportunities available through entry into new markets, expansions in existing markets and as a result of any future changes to the current regulatory scheme. We believe that our pricing and bid strategy, brand name and network quality will provide a strong foundation for membership growth opportunities in the future. that physicians and other providers primarily consider customer volume, reimbursement rates, timeliness of reimbursement and administrative service capabilities along with the reduction of non-value added administrative tasks when deciding whether to contract with a health benefits plan. insurance companies and health benefits plans for agents and brokers with demonstrated ability to secure new business and maintain existing accounts. We believe that the quality and price of our products, support services, reputation and prior relationships, along with a reasonable commission structure, are the factors agents and brokers consider in choosing whether to market our products. We believe that we have good relationships with our agents and brokers, and that our products, support services and commission structure compare favorably to those of our competitors in all of our markets. Typically, we are the largest competitor in each of our BCBS branded markets and, thus, are a closely-watched target by other insurance competitors. large retail pharmacy chains, large retail stores, supermarkets, other mail order pharmacies, web pharmacies and specialty pharmacies. Reportable Segments appropriateness of our reportable segments, particularly in light of organizational changes, merger and acquisition activity and changing laws and regulations. Prior to the second quarter of 2019, our Other segment included certain eliminations and corporate expenses not allocated to either of our other reportable segments. Beginning with the second quarter of 2019, our Other segment also includes IngenioRx, our pharmacy benefits manager, which began operations during the second quarter of 2019. In addition, during the second quarter of 2019, we reclassified our integrated health services business, our Diversified Business Group, or DBG, from our Government Business segment to the Other segment to reflect changes in how our segments are being managed. Amounts for prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation for comparability. Based on the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, guidance, as of December 31, 2019, IngenioRx and DBG did not collectively meet the quantitative thresholds for a reportable segment. Current reportable segments may change in the future. traditional indemnity benefits and POS plans, as well as a variety of hybrid benefit plans including CDHPs, hospital only and limited benefit products. Commercial & Specialty Business segment offer fully-insured health products provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers including claims processing, underwriting, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and other administrative services and provide an array of specialty and other insurance products and services such as dental, vision, life and disability insurance benefits. federal government in connection with our FHPS business. Medicaid makes federal matching funds available to all states for the delivery of healthcare benefits to eligible individuals, principally those with incomes below specified levels who meet other state-specified requirements. Medicaid is structured to allow each state to establish its own eligibility standards, benefits package, payment rates and program administration under broad federal guidelines. Our Medicare customers are Medicare-eligible individual members age 65 and over who have enrolled in Medicare Advantage, a managed care alternative for the Medicare program, or who have purchased Medicare Supplement benefit coverage, some disabled members under age 65, or members of all ages with end stage renal disease. Medicare To build our provider networks, we compete with other health benefits plans for the best contracts with hospitals, physicians and other providers. We believe At the sales and distribution level, we compete for qualified agents and brokers to recommend and distribute our products. Strong competition exists among In addition, the PBM industry is highly competitive, and IngenioRx is subject to competition from national, regional and local PBMs, insurers, health plans, We manage our operations through three reportable segments: Commercial & Specialty Business, Government Business and Other. We regularly evaluate the Our Commercial & Specialty Business and Government Business segments both offer a diversified mix of managed care products, including PPOs, HMOs, Our Commercial & Specialty Business segment includes our Local Group, National Accounts, Individual and Specialty businesses. Business units in the Our Government Business segment includes our Medicare and Medicaid businesses, National Government Services, or NGS, and services provided to the Supplement policies are sold to Medicare recipients as supplements to the benefits they receive from the Medicare program. Medicare Supplement policy rates are filed with, and in some cases approved by, state insurance departments. Most of the premium for Medicare Advantage is based on bids submitted to CMS and paid directly by the federal government on behalf of the participant who may also be charged a small premium. Additionally, through our alliance partnership engagements with larger provider groups and BCBS plans, we offer a variety of Medicaid services that include joint ventures, administrative service offerings, and full-risk arrangements. NGS acts as a Medicare contractor for the federal government in several regions across the nation. our other reportable segments. from agencies of the U.S. government for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. These revenues are contained in the Government Business segment. An immaterial amount of our total consolidated revenues is derived from activities outside of the U.S. Products and Services level when care is received from a participating network provider. Increasingly, customers are choosing our PPO products offered with an exclusive provider organization, which eliminates coverage out of network. Coverage is subject to co-payments or deductibles and coinsurance, with member cost sharing usually limited by out-of-pocket maximums. dollars are spent. Generally, CDHPs combine a high-deductible PPO plan with an employer-funded and or employee-funded personal care account, which may result in tax benefits to the employee. Some or all of the dollars remaining in the personal care account at year-end can be rolled over to the next year for future healthcare needs. deductibles and coinsurance, with member cost sharing usually limited by out-of-pocket maximums. hospitals and other providers. A member in one of our HMOs must typically select a PCP from our network. PCPs generally are family practitioners, internists or pediatricians who provide necessary preventive and primary medical care, and are generally responsible for coordinating other necessary healthcare services. We offer HMO plans with varying levels of co-payments, which result in different levels of premium rates. through participating network providers with minimum out-of-pocket expenses (co-payments) and also can go directly, without a referral, to any provider they choose, subject to, among other things, certain deductibles and coinsurance. Member cost sharing is limited by out-of-pocket maximums. other requirements and cost sharing features. Individual and Small Group products offered on and off the public exchanges meet the definition of the metal product requirements (bronze, silver, gold and platinum) and each metal product must satisfy a specific actuarial value. Health insurers participating on the public exchanges must offer at least one silver and one gold product. employers that maintain self-funded health plans. These administrative services include underwriting, actuarial services, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs, claims processing and other administrative services for self-funded employers. Self-funded health plans are also able to use our provider networks and to realize savings through our negotiated provider arrangements, while allowing employers the ability to design certain Our Other segment includes our PBM business (IngenioRx), our integrated health services business (DBG) and corporate expenses not allocated to either of Through our participation in various federal government programs, we generated approximately 20.7%, 19.8% and 17.8% of our total consolidated revenues A general description of our products and services is provided below: Preferred Provider Organization: PPO products offer the member an option to select any healthcare provider, with benefits reimbursed by us at a higher Consumer-Driven Health Plans: CDHPs provide consumers with increased financial responsibility, choice and control regarding how their healthcare Traditional Indemnity: Indemnity products offer the member an option to select any healthcare provider for covered services. Coverage is subject to Health Maintenance Organization: HMO products include comprehensive managed care benefits, generally through a participating network of physicians, Point-of-Service: POS products blend the characteristics of HMO, PPO and indemnity plans. Members can have comprehensive HMO-style benefits Public Exchange and Off-Exchange Products: Individual and Small Group products cover essential health benefits as defined in the ACA along with many Administrative Services: In addition to fully-insured products, we provide administrative services to Large Group, Small Group and National Account health benefit plans in accordance with their own requirements and objectives. We also underwrite stop loss insurance for self-funded plans. generally members who reside in or travel to a state in which an Anthem subsidiary is the Blue Cross and or Blue Shield licensee and who are covered under an employer-sponsored health plan serviced by a non-Anthem controlled BCBS licensee, which is the home plan. We perform certain administrative functions for BlueCard host members, for which we receive administrative fees from the BlueCard members home plans. Other administrative functions, including maintenance of enrollment information and customer service, are performed by the home plan. Advantage, including Special Needs Plans or SNPs, also known as Medicare Advantage SNPs Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans, or Medicare Part D and dual-eligible programs through Medicare-Medicaid Plans, or MMPs. Medicare Supplement plans typically pay the difference between healthcare costs incurred by a beneficiary and amounts paid by Medicare. Medicare Advantage plans provide Medicare beneficiaries with a managed care alternative to traditional Medicare and often include a Medicare Part D benefit. In addition, our Medicare Advantage SNPs provide tailored benefits to special needs individuals who are institutionalized or have severe or disabling chronic conditions and to dual-eligible customers, who are low-income seniors and persons under age 65 with disabilities. Medicare Advantage SNPs are coordinated care plans specifically designed to provide targeted care, covering all the health care services considered medically necessary for members and often providing professional care coordination services, with personal guidance and programs that help members maintain their health. Medicare Part D offers a prescription drug plan to Medicare and MMP beneficiaries. MMP is a demonstration program focused on serving members who are dually eligible for Medicaid and Medicare, which was established as a result of the passage of the ACA. We offer these plans to customers through our health benefit subsidiaries throughout the country, including America s 1st Choice, Amerigroup, CareMore, HealthSun and Simply Healthcare. sponsored coverage and are not eligible for government sponsored plans, such as Medicare and or Medicaid. Individual policies are generally sold through independent agents and brokers, retail partnerships, our in-house sales force or via the exchanges. Individual business is sold on a fully-insured basis. We offer on- exchange products through public exchanges and off-exchange products. Federal premium subsidies are available only for certain public exchange Individual products. Unsubsidized Individual customers are generally more sensitive to product pricing and, to a lesser extent, the configuration of the network and the efficiency of administration. Instability in the Individual market has resulted in a targeted approach where we offer products in select geographies. including Medicaid ACA-related Medicaid expansion programs Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, or TANF programs for seniors and people with disabilities, or SPD Children s Health Insurance Programs, or CHIP and specialty programs such as those focused on long-term services and support, or LTSS, HIV AIDS, children living in foster care, behavioral health and or substance abuse disorders, and intellectual disabilities and or developmental disabilities, or ID DD programs. The Medicaid program makes federal matching funds available to all states for the delivery of healthcare benefits for low income and or high medical risk individuals. These programs are managed by the individual states based on broad federal guidelines. TANF is a state and federally funded program designed for the population consisting primarily of low-income children and their guardians. SPD is a federal income supplement program designed for Supplemental Security Income recipients however, states can broaden eligibility criteria. This population consists of low-income seniors and people with disabilities. CHIP is a state and federally funded program that provides healthcare coverage to children not otherwise covered by Medicaid or other insurance programs. LTSS is a state and federally funded program that offers states a broad and flexible set of program design options and refers to the delivery of long-term services and support for our members who receive home and community- or institution-based services for long-term care. Our HIV AIDS program is a state and federally sponsored program that provides services to those living with HIV AIDS. Our foster care program is a state and federally sponsored program serving children with complex needs within the foster care system. Our behavioral health program is a state and federally sponsored program providing services to those with mental health and or substance abuse disorders. ID DD is a state and federally sponsored program serving those living with limitations in intellectual functioning and adaptive behavior learning disabilities. Our Medicaid plans also cover certain dual-eligible customers, as previously described above, who also receive Medicare benefits. We provide Medicaid and other state BlueCard : BlueCard is a national program that links participating healthcare providers and independent BCBS plans. BlueCard host members are Medicare Plans: We offer a wide variety of plans, products and options to individuals age 65 and older such as Medicare Supplement plans Medicare Individual Plans: We offer a full range of health insurance plans with a variety of options and deductibles for individuals who are not covered by employer- Medicaid Plans and Other State-Sponsored Programs: We have state contracts to serve members enrolled in publicly funded healthcare programs, sponsored services, such as administrative services, in Arkansas, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin and Washington D.C. health plan customers throughout the country, as well as to customers outside of the health plans we own. This comprehensive product portfolio includes features such as drug formularies, a pharmacy network, prescription drug database, member services, and mail order capabilities. In July 2019, we announced our first contract win with a third-party health insurer, Blue Cross of Idaho, and we began providing PBM services under that contract beginning on January 1, 2020. Also beginning in the second quarter of 2019, we began delegating certain PBM administrative functions, such as claims processing and prescription fulfillment, to CVS Health pursuant to the CVS PBM Agreement. We intend to retain the responsibilities for IngenioRx s clinical and formulary strategy and development, member and employer experiences, operations, sales, marketing, account management and retail network strategy. From December 2009 through December 2019, we delegated certain PBM functions and administrative services to Express Scripts pursuant to the ESI PBM Agreement, excluding certain health plans and self- insured members who have exclusive agreements with different PBM service providers. We began transitioning existing members from Express Scripts to IngenioRx in the second quarter of 2019 and completed the transition of all of our members on January 1, 2020. Express Scripts managed the network of pharmacy providers, operated mail order pharmacies and processed prescription drug claims on our behalf, while we sold and supported the product for our members, made formulary decisions, sold drug benefit design strategy and provided front line member support. conjunction with our health plans. The life products include term life and accidental death and dismemberment. clinical services to improve the quality of care delivered to members. These services include utilization management for advanced diagnostic imaging procedures, network development and optimization, patient safety, claims adjudication and provider payment. coordination and safety of healthcare, enhance communications between patients and their physicians, and reduce medical costs. health plans and are offered on both a fully-insured and self-funded basis. Our members also have access to additional dental providers through our participation in the National Dental GRID, a national dental network developed by and for BCBS plans. The National Dental GRID includes dentists in all 50 states and the District of Columbia and provides multi-state customers with a national solution that offers in-network discounts across the country. Additionally, we offer managed dental services to other healthcare plans to assist those plans in providing dental benefits to their customers. customers enrolled in our health plans and are offered on both a fully-insured and self-funded basis. the federal government by providing administrative services for the Medicare program, Parts A and B, which generally provides coverage for persons who are 65 or older and for persons who are under 65 and disabled or with end-stage renal disease. Part A of the Medicare program provides coverage for services provided by hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and other healthcare facilities. Part B of the Medicare program provides coverage for services provided by physicians, physical and occupational therapists and other professional providers, as well as certain durable medical equipment and medical supplies. Pharmacy Products: In the second quarter of 2019, we began using IngenioRx to market and sell a PBM product to fully-insured and self-funded Anthem Life Insurance: We offer an array of competitive individual and group life insurance benefit products to both Large Group and Small Group customers in Disability: We offer short-term and long-term disability products, usually in conjunction with our health plans. Radiology Benefit Management: We offer outpatient diagnostic imaging management services to health plans, which promote the most appropriate use of Personal Health Care Guidance: We offer evidence-based and analytics-driven personal healthcare guidance. These services help improve the quality, Dental: Our dental plans include networks in certain states in which we operate. Many of the dental benefits are provided to customers enrolled in our Vision Services and Products: Our vision plans include networks within the states in which we operate. Many of the vision benefits are provided to Medicare Administrative Operations: Through our subsidiary, NGS, we serve as a fiscal intermediary, carrier and Medicare administrative contractor for Networks and Provider Relations standards for network development, reimbursement and contract methodologies. While following industry standards, we are simultaneously seeking to lead transformation efforts within our healthcare system, moving from a fragmented model premised on episodic intervention to one based on proactive, coordinated care built around the needs of the patient. A key element of this transformation involves a transition from traditional fee-for-service payment models to models where providers are paid based on the value, both in quality and affordability, of the care they deliver. also seek to ensure that physicians in our network are paid in a timely manner at appropriate rates. In many instances, we deploy multi-year contracting strategies, including case rates or fixed rates, to limit our exposure to medical cost inflation and to increase cost predictability. We maintain both broad and narrow provider networks to ensure member choice, based on both price and access needs, while implementing programs designed to improve the quality of care our members receive. Increasingly, we are supplementing our broad-based networks with smaller or more cost-effective networks that are designed to be attractive to a more price-sensitive customer segment, such as public exchange customers. for-service reimbursement methodology for physicians, fee schedules are developed at the state level based on an assessment of several factors and conditions, including the CMS resource-based relative value system, or RBRVS, medical practice cost inflation and physician supply. We utilize CMS RBRVS fee schedules as a reference point for fee schedule development and analysis. The RBRVS structure was developed, maintained, and updated by CMS and is used by the Medicare program and other major payers. In addition, we have implemented and continue to expand physician incentive contracting, or pay-for-performance, which ties physician payment levels to performance on clinical measures. capitation-based arrangements in certain markets where we determine that market dynamics result in it being a useful method to lower costs and reduce underwriting risk. Most hospitals are reimbursed a fixed amount per day or reimbursed a per-case amount, per admission, for inpatient covered services. A small percentage of hospitals, primarily rural, sole community hospitals, are reimbursed on a discount from approved charge basis for covered services. Our per-case reimbursement methods utilize many of the same attributes contained in Medicare s Diagnosis Related Groups methodology. Hospital outpatient services are reimbursed by fixed case rates, fee schedules or percent of approved charges. Our hospital contracts recognize unique hospital attributes, such as academic medical centers or community hospitals, and the volume of care performed for our members. To improve predictability of expected costs, we frequently use a multi-year contracting approach with providers. In addition, the majority of our hospital contracts include a pay-for-performance component where reimbursement levels are linked to improved clinical performance, patient safety and medical error reduction. compensation with the value delivered as measured by healthcare outcomes, quality and cost. Our Enhanced Personal Health Care program augments traditional fee-for-service with shared savings opportunities for providers when actual healthcare costs are below projected costs and providers meet specific quality measures. The quality measures are based on nationally accepted, credible standards (e.g., NCQA, the American Diabetes Association and the American Academy of Pediatrics) and span preventive, acute and chronic care. We understand, however, that payment incentives alone are insufficient to create the large-scale, system- wide transformation required to achieve meaningful impacts on cost, quality and member experience. Accordingly, we are investing in care delivery transformation and population health management support structures to help providers succeed under value-based payment models. This support includes our web-based population health management technology and teams of dedicated practice consultants who work alongside providers, sharing best practices, and helping them leverage our data to the benefit of their patients. In some of these arrangements, participating physician practices receive a per-member, per-month clinical coordination fee to compensate them for important care management activities that occur outside of the patient visit (e.g., purchasing an electronic health record or hiring care Our relationships with physicians, hospitals and professionals that render healthcare services to our members are guided by local, regional and national We establish market-based hospital reimbursement payments that we believe are fair, but aggressive, and among the most competitive in the market. We Our reimbursement strategies vary across markets and depend on the degree of consolidation and integration of physician groups and hospitals. Under a fee- While we generally do not delegate full financial responsibility to our physician providers in the form of capitation-based reimbursement, we maintain Our hospital contracts provide for a variety of reimbursement arrangements depending on local market dynamics and current hospital utilization efficiency. Our provider engagement and contracting strategies are moving away from unit price or volume-based payment models to payment models that align management nurses), all of which have been shown to reduce healthcare costs and improve care outcomes. Since the launch of our Enhanced Personal Health Care program, we now have arrangements with provider organizations covering 52% of our PCPs and have rolled this program out in each of the 14 states where we operate as a licensee of the BCBSA. Medical Management Programs promote cost-effective medical care. These medical management activities and programs are administered and directed by physicians and nurses. The goals of our medical management strategies are to ensure that the care delivered to our members is supported by appropriate medical and scientific evidence, is received on a timely basis and occurs in the most appropriate setting. The following is a general description of our medical management programs, which are available to our members depending on the particular plan or product in which they participate: services prior to the services being rendered. For example, precertification is used to determine whether a set of hospital and medical services is being appropriately applied to the member s clinical condition, in accordance with criteria for medical necessity as that term is defined in the member s benefits contract. All of our health plans have implemented precertification programs for selected medical services including surgeries, major diagnostic procedures, devices, drugs and other services to help members maximize benefits and avoid unnecessary charges or penalties. Through our American Imaging Management, Inc. subsidiary, doing business as AIM Specialty Health, or AIM, we promote appropriate, safe and affordable member care in the areas of imaging, sleep disorders, cardiac testing, oncology drugs and musculoskeletal procedures. These expanded specialty benefit management solutions leverage clinical expertise and technology to engage our provider communities and members in more effective and efficient use of outpatient services. developed by third-party medical specialists. With inpatient care coordination, the requirements and intensity of services during a patient s hospital stay are reviewed, at times by an onsite, skilled nurse professional in collaboration with the hospital s medical and nursing staff, in order to coordinate care and determine the most effective transition of care from the hospital setting. In addition, continued stay cases are reviewed with physician medical directors to ensure appropriate utilization of medical services. We also coordinate care for outpatient services to help ensure that patients with chronic conditions who receive care from multiple physicians are able to manage the exchange of information between physicians and coordinate office visits to their physicians. high level of intervention and assistance to manage their healthcare needs. Case Management identifies members who are likely to be re-admitted to the hospital through claims analysis using predictive modeling techniques, the use of health risk assessment data, utilization management reports and referrals from a physician or one of our other programs, such as the 24 7 NurseLine. Registered nurses, medical directors, behavioral health experts, pharmacists and other clinicians focus on these members and help them coordinate their care through pharmacy compliance, post-hospital care, follow-up visits to see their physician and support in their home. Increasingly, we collaborate with our providers and key health partners within the member s provider care team by providing actionable patient data insights, practice-coaching capabilities, technology and programs and products that help our providers and health partners to successfully deliver the right care, at the right time, in the right place. therapeutics committee of physicians uses scientific and clinical evidence to ensure that our members have access to the appropriate drug therapies and receive these therapies through proper settings. services. This committee is comprised of internal and external physician leaders from various specialties and areas of the country. We also work in cooperation with academic medical centers, practicing community physicians and medical specialty organizations. All guidelines and policies are reviewed at least once a year or as new published clinical evidence becomes available. better outcomes for our members. We endorse, encourage and incentivize hospitals and Our medical management programs include a broad array of activities that facilitate improvements in the quality of care provided to our members and Precertification: A traditional medical management program involves assessment of the appropriateness of certain hospitalizations and other medical Care coordination: Another traditional medical management strategy we use is care coordination, which is based on nationally recognized criteria Case management: We have implemented a medical management strategy focused on identifying the small percentage of the membership that will require a Formulary management: We have developed formularies, which are selections of drugs based on clinical quality and effectiveness. A pharmacy and Medical policy: A medical policy committee determines our national policies and guidelines for the application of medical technologies, procedures and Quality programs: We are actively engaged with our hospital and physician networks to enable them to improve medical and surgical care and achieve physicians to support national initiatives to improve the quality of clinical care and patient outcomes and to reduce medication errors and hospital infections. evidence-based medical care. When we receive member concerns, we have formal appeals procedures that ultimately allow coverage disputes related to medical necessity decisions under the benefits contract to be settled by independent expert physicians. quality accreditation data and patient reviews for common services at contracted providers, with cost estimates for facility, professional and ancillary services. These cost estimates bundle related services typically performed at the time of the procedure, not just for the procedure itself. Users can review cost data for over 400 common, shop-able medical procedures in all states. Members can also estimate out-of-pocket costs based on a member s own benefit coverage, deductible, and out-of-pocket maximum. We also offer information on overall facility ratings and patient experience using trusted third-party data. We continue to work on enhancing and evolving our tools to assist members in making informed and value-based healthcare decisions. In addition, we collaborate with an external independent vendor to support employers wanting to purchase a consumer engagement solution with certain additional functionality. healthcare services for our members. Anthem Health Guide provides members with education on benefit options and digital opportunities that fit member references, and makes recommendations for eligible clinical programs to ensure members are connected to the most appropriate care and clinical resources. By allowing members to connect with us using voice, click-to-chat, secure email and mobile technology, we enhance our ability to engage with our members. pharmacy, dental, vision, disability and supplemental health clinical and claims data to proactively identify health issues earlier and engage our members with their health providers in new ways to support health, lower costs and deliver better healthcare experience. Anthem Whole Health Connection is included when Anthem health benefits are combined with one or more of the Anthem pharmacy, dental, vision, life, disability or supplemental health coverage plans. Care Management Programs which are available to our members depending on the particular plan or product in which they participate, and have been proven to increase quality and reduce medical costs for our members: professionals, with added support from our team of dietitians, social workers, pharmacists, health educators and other health professionals, help participants understand their condition, their doctor s orders and how to become a better self-manager of their condition. We also offer members infertility consultation through our SpecialOffers Anthem program, a comprehensive and integrated assembly of discounted health and wellness products and services from a variety of the nation s leading retailers. and avoid unnecessary worry. This program also includes a referral process to the nearest urgent care facility, a robust audio library, accessible by phone, with more than 600 health and wellness topics, as well as on-line health education topics designed to educate members about symptoms and treatment of many common health concerns. based care guidelines, providing personal care notes that alert members to potential gaps in care, enable more prudent healthcare choices, and assist in the realization of member out-of-pocket cost savings. Key opportunities are also shared with physicians through Availity at the time of membership eligibility verification. Availity is External review procedures: We work with outside experts through a process of external review to provide our members scientifically and clinically, Provider cost comparison tools: Through Estimate Your Cost, Care & Cost Finder, and other web-based tools, our members can compare cost estimates, Anthem Health Guide: Anthem Health Guide integrates the customer service experience with clinical and wellness coaching to provide easier navigation of Anthem Whole Health Connection: Anthem Whole Health Connection is a differentiated approach to whole person health that uniquely connects medical, We continue to expand our 360 Health suite of integrated care management programs and tools. 360 Health offers the following programs, among others, ConditionCare and FutureMoms are care management and maternity management programs that serve as adjuncts to physician care. Skilled nurse 24 7 NurseLine offers access to qualified, registered nurses anytime. This allows our members to make informed decisions about the appropriate level of care MyHealth Advantage utilizes integrated information systems and sophisticated data analytics to help our members improve their compliance with evidence- an electronic data interchange system that allows for the exchange of health information among providers over a secure network. being. MyHealth Coach proactively reaches out to people who are at risk for potentially serious health issues or have complex healthcare needs. Our health coaches help participants understand and manage chronic conditions, handle any health and wellness related services they need and make smart lifestyle choices. their employer s financial well-being. HealthyLifestyles programs include smoking cessation, weight management, stress management, physical activity, and diet and nutrition. condition, including specialty areas such as eating disorders, anxiety, depression and substance abuse. The program assists members and their families with obtaining appropriate behavioral health treatment, offering community resources, providing education and telephonic support, and promoting provider collaboration. challenges and needs of families with a member who has a diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder. These clinicians provide education, information on community resources to help with care and support, guidance on the appropriate usage of benefits, and assistance in exploring effective treatments, such as medical services, that may help the member and their families. within work and personal life by providing quick and easy access to confidential resources to help meet the challenges of daily life. Examples of services available include counseling, referral assistance with child care, health and wellness, financial issues, legal issues, adoption and daily living. Healthcare Quality Initiatives management for chronic disease. A key to our success has been our ability to work with our network physicians and hospitals to improve the quality and outcomes of the healthcare services provided to our members. Our ability to promote quality medical care has been recognized by NCQA, the largest and most respected national accreditation program for managed care health plans. accreditation processes. HEDIS measures range from preventive services, such as screening mammography and pediatric immunization, to elements of care, including decreasing the complications of diabetes and improving treatment for patients with heart disease. For health plans, NCQA s highest accreditation status of Excellent is granted only to those plans that demonstrate levels of service and clinical quality that meet or exceed NCQA s rigorous requirements for consumer protection and quality improvement. Plans earning this accreditation level must also achieve HEDIS results that are in the highest range of national or regional performance. Details for each of our plans accreditation levels can be found at www.ncqa.org. making while helping to guide fresh initiatives for a range of stakeholders in the healthcare industry. By leveraging a rich array of medical and pharmacy utilization data queried from administrative claims, patient surveys, medical charts and laboratory diagnostics, among other health records, HealthCore s multi-disciplinary research teams uncover a broad spectrum of safety, effectiveness, pharmacoepidemiology, and health economics evidence. HealthCore s real world evidence and comparative effectiveness research, among other data, has played roles in the product planning and development campaigns of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and today it lists most of the leading biologics and drug manufacturers as clients or alliance partners. Its health plan research has led to better insights into evidence-based treatment approaches, the development of value-based initiatives to drive access and adherence to treatment, and the crafting of incentives to modify patient and provider behavior. One of HealthCore s predominant initiatives is its governmental and academic collaborations that include cooperation with some of the country s top institutions and federal MyHealth Coach provides our members with a professional guide who helps them navigate the healthcare system and make better decisions about their well- HealthyLifestyles helps employees transform unhealthy habits into positive ones by focusing on behaviors that can have a positive effect on their health and Behavioral Health Case Management is a comprehensive program supporting a wide range of members who are impacted by their behavioral health Autism Spectrum Disorder Program is a specialized case management program staffed by a dedicated team of clinicians who have been trained on the unique Employee Assistance Programs provide 24 7 telephonic support for personal and crisis events. Members also gain access to many resources that allow support Increasingly, the healthcare industry is able to define quality healthcare based on preventive health measurements, outcomes of care and optimal care Several quality healthcare measures, including the Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set, or HEDIS , have been incorporated into NCQA s Our wholly-owned health outcomes research subsidiary, HealthCore, Inc., or HealthCore, generates consistent and actionable evidence to support decision agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute and the National Institutes of Health. HealthCore is also an active contributor to the FDA s medical product safety surveillance Sentinel program. HealthCore serves as the coordinating center for the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute s Pediatric Heart Network, a collaboration among 40 of the nation s top pediatric hospitals. Additionally, HealthCore has taken a thought-leadership position in the development of pragmatic clinical trials. As a notable contributor to the health outcomes evidence base, HealthCore s research findings are broadly disseminated during presentations at national and international medical meetings and are published in a variety of respected peer-reviewed medical and health services journals. medicine, medical oncology, radiation therapy, rehabilitative, certain outpatient surgical and musculoskeletal services. These programs, based on widely accepted and evidence-based clinical guidelines, promote the most appropriate use of clinical services to improve the quality of overall healthcare delivered to our members and members of other health plans that are covered under AIM s programs. To provide additional impact to its clinical appropriateness program, AIM has also implemented a provider assessment program, OptiNet , which promotes more informed selection of diagnostic imaging and testing facilities by providing cost and facility information to physician offices at the point that a procedure is ordered. We have also leveraged AIM s provider network assessment information to proactively engage and educate our members about imaging providers and sleep testing choices based on site capabilities and cost differences. This program is another example of how we facilitate improvements in the quality of care provided to our members and promote cost-effective medical care. Pricing and Underwriting of Our Products administrative expenses, risk and profit, including charges for the ACA taxes and fees, where applicable. We continually review our product designs and pricing guidelines on a national and regional basis so that our products remain competitive and consistent with our profitability goals and strategies. bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period. In applying our pricing to each employer group and customer, we aim to maintain consistent, competitive, disciplined underwriting standards. We employ our proprietary accumulated actuarial and financial data to determine underwriting and pricing parameters for both our fully-insured and self-funded businesses. the contract period. For our fully-insured business, any deviation, favorable or unfavorable, from the medical costs assumed in determining the premium is our responsibility. Some of our larger groups employ retrospective rating reviews, where positive experience is partially refunded to the group, and negative experience is charged against a rate stabilization fund established from the group s favorable experience or charged against future favorable experience. BCBSA Licenses Shield names and marks in assigned geographic territories. BCBSA is a national trade association of Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensees, the primary function of which is to promote and preserve the integrity of the BCBS names and marks, as well as provide certain coordination among the member companies. Each BCBSA licensee is an independent legal organization and is not responsible for obligations of other BCBSA member organizations. We have no right to market products and services using the BCBS names and marks outside of the states in which we are licensed to sell BCBS products. We are required to pay an annual license fee to the BCBSA based on enrollment and also to comply with various operational, governance and financial standards set forth in the licenses. in certain instances by the BCBSA. See Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details of our licensing requirements and the impact if we were not to comply with these license agreements. Our AIM subsidiary supports quality by implementing clinical appropriateness and patient safety solutions for advanced imaging procedures, cardiology, sleep We price our products based on our assessment of current healthcare claim costs and emerging healthcare cost trends, combined with charges for Our revenue on Medicare policies is based on annual bids submitted to CMS. We base the commercial and Medicaid premiums we charge and our Medicare In most circumstances, our pricing and underwriting decisions follow a prospective rating process in which a fixed premium is determined at the beginning of We are a party to license agreements with the BCBSA that entitle us to the exclusive, and in certain areas, non-exclusive use of the Blue Cross and Blue We believe that we and our licensed affiliates are currently in compliance with these standards. The standards under the license agreements may be modified Regulation laws and regulations, which can vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, restrict how we conduct our businesses and result in additional burdens and costs to us. Further, federal and state laws and regulations are subject to amendments and changing interpretations in each jurisdiction. The application of these complex legal and regulatory requirements to the detailed operation of our businesses creates areas of uncertainty. In addition, there are numerous proposed healthcare laws and regulations at the federal and state levels, including single payer, Medicare for All and public option proposals, some of which could materially adversely affect our businesses if they were to be enacted. To carry out these tasks, these government entities periodically examine our operations and accounts. and regulations. It is uncertain whether we can recoup, through higher premiums or other measures, the increased costs of mandated benefits or other increased costs caused by potential legislation, regulation or court rulings. See Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, has adopted model regulations that, where adopted by states, require expanded governance practices, risk and solvency assessment reporting and the filing of periodic financial and operating reports. Most states have adopted these or similar measures to expand the scope of regulations relating to corporate governance and internal control activities of HMOs and insurance companies. Health insurers and HMOs are subject to state examination and periodic license renewal. company and HMO subsidiaries are domiciled. These acts contain certain reporting requirements, as well as restrictions on transactions between an insurer or HMO and its affiliates, and may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding companies. These holding company laws and regulations generally require registration with applicable state departments of insurance and the filing of reports describing capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions, enterprise risks, corporate governance and general business operations. In addition, state insurance holding company laws and regulations require notice or prior regulatory approval of transactions including acquisitions, material intercompany transfers of assets, guarantees and other transactions between the regulated companies and their affiliates, including parent holding companies. Applicable state insurance holding company acts also restrict the ability of any person to obtain control of an insurance company or HMO without prior regulatory approval. Control is generally defined as the direct or indirect power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person and is presumed to exist if a person directly or indirectly owns or State Regulation of Insurance Companies and HMOs Our operations are subject to comprehensive and detailed state, federal and international regulation throughout the jurisdictions in which we do business. These Supervisory agencies, including federal and state regulators and departments of health, insurance and corporation, have broad authority to: grant, suspend and revoke licenses to transact business regulate our products and services in great detail regulate, limit, or suspend our ability to market products, including the exclusion of our plans from participating on public exchanges retroactively adjust premium rates monitor our solvency and reserve adequacy scrutinize our investment activities on the basis of quality, diversification and other quantitative criteria and impose monetary and criminal sanctions for non-compliance with regulatory requirements. The health benefits business also may be adversely impacted by court and regulatory decisions that expand or invalidate the interpretations of existing statutes Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must obtain a certificate of authority and maintain that license in the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. The In addition, we are regulated as an insurance holding company and are subject to the insurance holding company acts of the states in which our insurance controls 10% or more of the voting securities of another person. Dispositions of control generally are also regulated under the state insurance holding company acts. HMOs based on the Risk-Based Capital (RBC) For Health Organizations Model Act. These RBC requirements are intended to assess the capital adequacy of life and health insurers and HMOs, taking into account the risk characteristics of a company s investments and products. In general, under these laws, an insurance company or HMO must submit a report of its RBC level to the insurance department or insurance commissioner of its state of domicile for each calendar year. The law requires increasing degrees of regulatory oversight and intervention as a company s RBC declines. As of December 31, 2019, the RBC levels of our insurance and HMO subsidiaries exceeded all applicable mandatory RBC requirements. For more information on RBC capital and additional liquidity and capital requirements for a licensee of the BCBSA, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Risk-Based Capital, included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. either through Congress or court challenges, we expect the major portions of the ACA to remain in place and continue to significantly impact our business operations and results of operations, including pricing, minimum medical loss ratios, or MLRs, and the geographies in which our products are available. the ACA implemented certain requirements for insurers, including changes to Medicare Advantage payments and the minimum MLR provision that requires insurers to pay rebates to customers when insurers do not meet or exceed the specified MLR thresholds. In addition, the ACA also required a number of other changes with significant effects on both federal and state health insurance markets, including strict rules on how health insurance is rated, what benefits must be offered, the assessment of new taxes and fees (including annual fees on health insurance companies), the creation of public exchanges for Individuals and Small Groups, the availability of premium subsidies for qualified individuals, and expansions in eligibility for Medicaid. Changes to our business environment are likely to continue as elected officials at the national and state levels continue to enact, and both elected officials and candidates for election continue to propose, significant modifications to existing laws and regulations, including changes to taxes and fees. Also, the legal challenges regarding the ACA, including the 2018 ACA Decision, which judgment has been stayed pending appeal, could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. risk volatility. Based on our experience in public exchange markets to date, we have made adjustments to our premium rates and participation footprint, and we will continue to evaluate the performance of our public exchange plans going forward. In addition, insurers have faced uncertainties related to federal government funding for various ACA programs. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations if premiums are not adequate or do not appropriately reflect the acuity of these individuals. Any variation from our expectations regarding acuity, enrollment levels, adverse selection, or other assumptions utilized in setting premium rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. increased assertions of False Claims Act violations, and an increased risk of other litigation. Ongoing Requirements and Changes Stemming from the ACA The states of domicile of our regulated subsidiaries have statutory risk-based capital, or RBC, requirements for health and other insurance companies and The ACA significantly changed the United States healthcare system. While we anticipate continued efforts to invalidate, modify, repeal or replace the ACA, The ACA prohibits lifetime limits, certain annual limits, member cost-sharing on specified preventive benefits and pre-existing condition exclusions. Further, In general, the Individual market risk pool that includes public exchange markets has become less healthy since its inception in 2014 and continues to exhibit Further, implementation of the ACA brings with it significant oversight responsibilities by health insurers that may result in increased governmental audits, rules are described below: Federal regulatory agencies continue to modify regulations and guidance related to the ACA and markets more broadly. Some of the more significant ACA The minimum MLR thresholds by line of business for the Commercial market, as defined by HHS, are as follows: The ACA created an incentive payment program for Medicare Advantage plans. CMS developed the Medicare Advantage Star ratings system, which awards between 1.0 and 5.0 stars to Medicare Advantage plans based on performance in several categories, including quality of care and customer service. The Star ratings are used by CMS to award quality-based bonus payments to plans that receive a rating of 4.0 or higher. The methodology and measures included in the Star ratings system can be modified by CMS annually. As of December 31, 2019, all of our Medicare Advantage plans have received a rating of 3.0 or higher. Regulations require premium rate increases to be reviewed for Small Group and Individual products above specified thresholds, 15% for 2019 and 2020, and may be adjusted from time to time. The regulations provide for state insurance regulators to conduct the reviews, except for cases where a state does not have an effective rate review program or in federal enforcement states, in which cases HHS will conduct the reviews for any rate increase. Prior to the implementation of the ACA, health insurers were permitted to use differential pricing, commonly referred to as rating bands, based on factors such as health status, gender and age. The ACA precludes health insurers from using health status and gender in the determination of the insurance premium. In addition, rating bands for age cannot vary by more than 3 to 1, and rating bands for tobacco use cannot vary by more than 1.5 to 1. The ongoing use of the 3 to 1 rating bands may have a significant impact on the majority of Individual and Small Group customers and could lead to adverse selection in the market as well as increased variability in projecting future premiums for those customer markets. New York state regulations require us to meet a more restrictive MLR threshold of 82% for both Small Group and Individual lines of business. The minimum MLR thresholds disclosed above are based on definitions of an MLR calculation provided by HHS, or specific states, as applicable, and differ from our calculation of benefit expense ratio based on premium revenue and benefit expense as reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Furthermore, the definitions of the lines of business differ under the various federal and state regulations and may not correspond to our lines of business. Definitions under the MLR regulation also impact insurers differently depending upon their organizational structure or tax status, which could result in a competitive advantage to some insurance providers that may not be available to us, resulting in an uneven playing field in the industry. The ACA also imposed a separate minimum MLR threshold of 85% for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, or Medicare Part D plans. Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D plans that do not meet this threshold will have to pay a minimum MLR rebate. If a plan s MLR is below 85% for three consecutive years beginning with 2014, enrollment will be restricted. A Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D plan contract will be terminated if the plan s MLR is below 85% for five consecutive years. In addition, state Medicaid programs are required to set managed care capitation rates such that a minimum 85% MLR is projected to be achieved however, states are not required to collect remittances if the minimum MLR is not achieved. Approximately 58.9% and 20.8% of our premium revenue and medical membership, respectively, were subject to the minimum MLR regulations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019. Approximately 58.7% and 22.0% of our premium revenue and medical membership, respectively, were subject to the minimum MLR regulations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018. Line of Business % Large Group 85 Small Group 80 Individual 80 number of requirements on covered entities (including insurers, HMOs, group health plans, providers and clearinghouses) and their business associates relating to the use, disclosure and safeguarding of protected health information. These requirements include uniform standards of common electronic healthcare transactions privacy and security regulations and unique identifier rules for employers, health plans and providers. 2009 and corresponding implementing regulations have imposed additional requirements on the use and disclosure of protected health information such as additional breach notification and reporting requirements, contracting requirements for HIPAA business associate agreements, strengthened enforcement mechanisms and increased penalties for HIPAA violations. Federal consumer protection laws may also apply in some instances to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information. labeling, packaging, advertising and adulteration of prescription drugs, dispensing of controlled substances, and licensing. In recent years the federal government has banned certain business practices, including gag clauses, which prohibited pharmacists from informing patients when a lower cost drug was available as a substitute, and clawbacks, which occurred when pharmacy benefit managers sought to recoup the difference between the reimbursed cost of the drug and the patient s copay and the drug itself was less expensive than the copay paid by the patient. Regulation in the states varies dramatically and ranges from licensure of PBMs as third-party administrators, licensure specifically as a pharmacy benefit manager, and licensure accompanied by additional disclosures and limitations of business practices to varying degrees. The NAIC is working on a PBM model law that, if adopted widely, could result in a more standardized approach to PBM regulation in the states in the future. Such proposals under consideration include (1) regulation of rebates from drug manufacturers that would require rebate dollars to be applied at the point-of-sale, (2) federal policy changes to set the prices for a subset of drugs covered under the Medicare program, (3) reforms to the Medicare drug benefit, such as beneficiary cost-sharing changes that aim to lower consumer costs, and (4) attempts at both the federal and state levels to ban the use of spread pricing contracts in both the Commercial and Medicaid markets. These reforms have the potential to have broad impacts on our PBM business and could materially adversely affect our business if they are enacted. Drug Benefit and Pharmacy Benefit Manager Regulation Privacy, Confidentiality and Data Standards Regulation The ACA imposed an annual Health Insurance Provider Fee, or HIP Fee, on health insurers that write certain types of health insurance on U.S. risks, which has been permanently repealed effective January 1, 2021. The annual HIP Fee is allocated to health insurers based on the ratio of the amount of an insurer s net premium revenues written during the preceding calendar year to the amount of health insurance premium for all U.S. health risk for those certain lines of business written during the preceding calendar year. We record our estimated liability for the HIP Fee in full at the beginning of the year with a corresponding deferred asset that is amortized on a straight-line basis to selling, general and administrative expense. The final calculation and payment of the annual HIP Fee is due by September 30th of each fee year. The HIP Fee is non-deductible for federal income tax purposes. Our affected products are priced to cover the increased selling, general and administrative and income tax expenses associated with the HIP Fee. The total amount due from allocations to health insurers was 14.3 billion for 2018 and was suspended for 2019. The HIP Fee has resumed and increased to 15.5 billion for 2020 and has been permanently eliminated beginning in 2021. Medicare Advantage reimbursement rates will not increase as much as they would otherwise due to the payment formula promulgated by the ACA that continues to impact reimbursements. We also expect further and ongoing regulatory guidance on a number of issues related to Medicare, including evolving methodology for ratings and quality bonus payments. CMS is also proposing changes to its program that audits data submitted under the risk adjustment programs in a way that would increase financial recoveries from plans. The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and the administrative simplification provisions of HIPAA impose a Also, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health, or HITECH, Act provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of Pharmacy benefit managers are regulated at both the federal and state levels and must comply with federal and state statutes and regulations governing A number of proposals are being considered at the federal and state levels that would increase regulation of drug benefits and pharmacy benefit managers. financial institutions, including insurers, to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal information is used, including an opportunity to opt out of certain disclosures. State departments of insurance and certain federal agencies adopted implementing regulations as required by federal law. things, directed HHS to develop a set of voluntary cybersecurity best practices for organizations in the health care industry. and security standards that are at least as protective as those the public exchange has implemented for itself on insurers offering plans through the public exchanges and their designated downstream entities, including pharmacy benefit mangers and other business associates. These standards may differ from, and be more stringent than, HIPAA. may affect our privacy and security practices, such as state laws like the California Consumer Privacy Act that govern the use, disclosure and protection of member data and impose additional breach notification requirements. State consumer protection laws may also apply to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information, including information related to consumers and care providers. Complying with conflicting cybersecurity regulations and varying enforcement philosophies, which may differ from state to state, requires significant resources and may materially and adversely affect our ability to standardize our products and services across state lines. ERISA, a complex set of laws and regulations subject to interpretation and enforcement by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Labor. ERISA regulates certain aspects of the relationships between us, the employers that maintain employee welfare benefit plans subject to ERISA and participants in such plans. Some of our administrative services and other activities may also be subject to regulation under ERISA. In addition, certain states require licensure or registration of companies providing third-party claims administration services for benefit plans. We provide a variety of products and services to employee welfare benefit plans that are covered by ERISA. Plans subject to ERISA can also be subject to state laws, and the question of whether and to what extent ERISA preempts a state law has been, and will continue to be, interpreted by many courts. policyholder losses incurred when an insurance company or HMO becomes insolvent. Most state insolvency or guaranty association laws currently provide for assessments based upon the amount of premiums received on insurance underwritten within such state (with a minimum amount payable even if no premium is received). Under many of these guaranty association laws, assessments are made retrospectively. Some states permit insurers or HMOs to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets or through future policyholder surcharges. The amount and timing of any future assessments cannot be predicted with certainty however, future assessments are likely to occur. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 Guaranty Fund Assessments The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally places restrictions on the disclosure of non-public information to non-affiliated third parties, and requires The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 encourages organizations to share cyber threat indicators with the federal government and, among other In addition, public exchanges are required to adhere to privacy and security standards with respect to personally identifiable information and to impose privacy Furthermore, states have begun enacting more comprehensive privacy laws and regulations addressing consumer rights to data protection or transparency that Federal regulation has also been proposed in the following areas that could materially impact our operations if finalized: Federal regulations on data interoperability that would require claims data to be made available to third parties unaffiliated with Anthem and Federal regulations requiring hospitals and health insurers to publish negotiated prices for services. The provision of services to certain employee welfare benefit plans is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or Under insolvency or guaranty association laws in most states, insurance companies and HMOs can be assessed for amounts paid by guaranty funds for At December 31, 2019, we had approximately 70,600 employees. Our employees are an important asset, and we seek to develop them to their full potential. Available Information to Item 101 of Regulation S-K, to provide certain information regarding our website and the availability of certain documents filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Our website is www.antheminc.com. We have included our website address throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K as a textual reference only. The information contained on, or accessible through, our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10- K. We make available, free of charge, by mail or through our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the SEC. We also include on our website our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Conduct and the charter of each standing committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, we intend to disclose on our website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Code of Conduct that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. Anthem, Inc. is an Indiana corporation incorporated on July 17, 2001. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and you should carefully consider them and not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all our potential risks or uncertainties. Because of these and other factors, past performance should not be considered an indication of future performance. If we fail to appropriately predict, price for and manage healthcare costs, the profitability of our products could decline, which could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. medical management, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and underwriting criteria. Total healthcare costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered, the cost of each service and the type of service rendered. Numerous factors affecting the cost of healthcare may adversely affect our ability to predict and manage healthcare costs, as well as our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include, among others, changes in healthcare practices, demographic characteristics including the aging population, medical cost inflation, the introduction of new technologies, drugs and treatments, increased cost of individual services, increases in the cost and number of prescription drugs, clusters of high cost cases, increased use of services, including due to natural catastrophes or other large-scale medical emergencies or epidemics, and new treatment guidelines, new mandated benefits (such as the expansion of essential benefits coverage) or changes to other regulations impacting our business. Relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. commencement of the premium period. Our revenue on Medicare policies is based on bids submitted to CMS six months prior to the start of the contract year. Accordingly, the costs we incur in excess of our benefit cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. Existing Medicaid contract rates are often established by the applicable state, and our actual costs may exceed those rates. Although we base our Commercial premiums and our Medicare and Medicaid bids, and our acceptance of state-established Medicaid rates on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period, many factors, including those discussed above, may cause actual costs to exceed those estimated and reflected in premiums and bids. of operations. Although federal and state premium and risk adjustment mechanisms could help offset healthcare benefit costs in excess of our projections if our assumptions (including assumptions for We are a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act) and are required, pursuant The following is a description of significant factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements Our profitability depends in large part on accurately predicting and pricing healthcare costs and on our ability to manage future healthcare costs through Generally, our premiums on Commercial policies and Medicaid contracts are fixed for a 12-month period and are determined several months prior to the Relatively small differences between predicted and actual healthcare costs as a percentage of premium revenues can result in significant changes in our results government premium and risk adjustment payments) utilized in setting our premium rates are significantly different than actual results, our income statement and financial condition could still be adversely affected. contain their costs or may move to a competitor to obtain more favorable premiums. Further, federal and state regulatory agencies may restrict or prevent entirely our ability to implement changes in premium rates. For example, we must submit data on all proposed rate increases to HHS for monitoring purposes on many of our products. In addition, the ACA includes an annual rate review requirement to prohibit unreasonable rate increases, and our plans may be excluded from participating in the public exchanges if they are deemed to have a history of unreasonable rate increases. A limitation on our ability to increase or maintain our premium or reimbursement levels or a significant loss of membership resulting from our need to increase or maintain premium or reimbursement levels could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. a number of factors, including trends in healthcare costs, expenses, general economic conditions and other factors. To the extent the actual claims experience is unfavorable as compared to our underlying assumptions, our incurred losses would increase and future earnings could be adversely affected. We are subject to significant government regulation, and changes or proposed changes in the regulation of our business by federal and state regulators may adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our securities. marketing activities, provider contracting, access and payment standards, and corporate governance and financial reporting matters. In addition, IngenioRx is also subject to an increasing number of licensure, registration and other laws and accreditation standards that impact the business practices of a pharmacy benefit manager. We must identify, assess and respond to new laws and regulations, as well as comply with the various existing laws and regulations applicable to our business. Further, the integration into our business of entities that we acquire, or the expansion of our business into new areas, may affect the way in which existing laws and rules apply to us, including by subjecting us to laws and rules that did not previously apply to us. conduct our business, affect the products we offer (and where we offer them), restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our costs, including operating, healthcare technology and administrative costs, restrict our ability to obtain new product approvals and implement changes in premium rates and require enhancements to our compliance infrastructure and internal controls environment, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. In addition, legislative and or regulatory policies or proposals that seek to manage the healthcare industry or otherwise impact our business may cause the market price of our securities to decrease, even if such policies or proposals never become effective. state in which they are licensed or authorized to do business, in addition to regulation by federal agencies. We are required to obtain and maintain insurance and other regulatory approvals to market certain of our products, to increase prices for certain regulated products and to consummate some of our acquisitions and dispositions. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain or maintain these approvals, as well as future regulatory action by state or federal authorities could have a material adverse effect on the profitability or marketability of our health benefits or managed care products or on our business, financial condition and results of operations. regulation by CMS and state Medicaid agencies, and to changes in government regulations or policy with respect to, among other things, reimbursement levels, eligibility requirements, benefit coverage requirements and additional governmental participation, which could also adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. claimants of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. Some states have similar In addition to the challenge of managing healthcare costs, we face pressure to contain premium rates. Our customers may renegotiate their contracts to seek to In addition, the reserves that we establish for health insurance policy benefits and other contractual rights and benefits are based upon assumptions concerning We are subject to significant state and federal regulation associated with many aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, licensing, premiums, Changes in existing laws, rules and regulatory interpretation or future laws, rules, regulatory interpretations or judgments could force us to change how we Our insurance, managed healthcare and HMO subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by regulatory authorities and agencies in each In addition, because of our participation in government-sponsored programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, many of our subsidiaries are also subject to In addition, under insolvency or guaranty association laws in most states, insurance companies can be assessed for certain obligations to policyholders and laws relating to HMOs and other payers such as consumer operated and oriented plans (co-ops) established under the ACA. The NAIC has amended the Life and Health Insurance Guaranty Association Model Act, or NAIC Model Act, to expand the assessment base for long-term care products and to add HMOs as members. We have experienced assessments in the past, and may experience assessments in the future as a result of other companies that fail to establish premiums sufficient to cover their costs. If the amended NAIC Model Act is adopted by the states, these changes could impact our assessments. Any such assessment could expose us to the risk of paying a portion of an impaired or insolvent insurance company s claims through state guaranty associations. We are not currently able to estimate our potential financial obligations, losses, or the availability of potential offsets associated with potential guaranty association assessments however, any significant increase in guaranty association assessments could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. substantially impair our operating environment. Most states are very focused on how to manage and reduce their budgets and are exploring ways to mitigate cost increases. As such, some states have acted to reduce or limit increases to premium payments. Others have enacted, or are contemplating, significant reform of their health insurance markets to include provisions affecting both public programs and privately-financed health insurance arrangements. If enacted into law, these state proposals could have a material adverse impact on our business, cash flows, operations or financial condition. frequently review public program eligibility. Where states make changes to reduce eligibility, we could experience reduced Medicaid enrollment and reduced growth opportunities. If future modifications to laws and regulations at the federal or state level result in reduced public enrollment, this could negatively impact our Medicaid business. could fundamentally alter the treatment of coverage decisions under ERISA. There have been legislative attempts to limit ERISA s preemptive effect on state laws and litigants ability to seek damages beyond the benefits offered under their plans. If adopted, such limitations could increase our liability exposure, could permit greater state regulation of our operations, and could expand the scope of damages, including punitive damages, litigants could be awarded. While we cannot predict if any of these initiatives will ultimately become effective or, if enacted, what their terms will be, their enactment could increase our costs, expose us to expanded liability or require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business. The ongoing changes to the ACA and related laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. the scope and application of the ACA, continue to represent significant challenges to the U.S. healthcare system. We are unable to predict how these events will ultimately be resolved and what the potential impact may be on our business, including, but not limited to, our products, services, processes and technology, and on our relationships with current and future customers and healthcare providers. The legal challenges regarding the ACA, including a federal district court decision invalidating the ACA in its entirety, which judgment has been stayed pending appeal, continue to contribute to this uncertainty, which could significantly impact the market for our products, the regulations applicable to us and the fees and taxes payable by us. In addition, the ACA imposes significant fees, assessments and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and other industry participants, including the annual non-tax deductible HIP Fee however, the HIP Fee has been permanently repealed beginning January 1, 2021. Further regulations and modifications to the ACA at the federal or state level, including any judicial invalidation of the ACA, could have significant effects on our business and future operations, some of which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. insurers have faced uncertainties related to federal government funding for various ACA programs. Based on our experience in public exchange markets to date, we have made adjustments to our premium rates and geographic participation, and will continue to evaluate the performance of our public exchange plans, the future viability of the public exchanges and availability of federal subsidies, and may make further adjustments to our rates and We expect state legislatures will continue to focus on healthcare delivery and financing issues. State ballot initiatives can also be put to voters that would A number of states in which we offer Medicaid products have not opted for Medicaid expansion under the ACA, at least for the present time, and states Additionally, from time to time, Congress has considered, and may consider in the future, various forms of managed care reform legislation which, if adopted, The ongoing changes in federal and state laws and regulations stemming from the ACA, including the steps that have been taken to amend, repeal and limit In general, the risk pool for the Individual market, which includes public exchange markets, has become less healthy since its inception in 2014. In addition, participation going forward. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations if premiums are not adequate or do not appropriately reflect the acuity of these individuals. Any variation from our expectations regarding acuity, enrollment levels, adverse selection, or other assumptions utilized in setting premium rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with hospitals, physicians, pharmacy benefit service providers and other healthcare providers, our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. healthcare providers. Physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers may elect not to contract with us, and the failure to secure or maintain cost-effective healthcare provider contracts on competitive terms may result in a loss of membership or higher medical costs, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, consolidation among healthcare providers, ACO practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals and other care providers choose, as well as the ability of larger employers to contract directly with providers, may change the way that these providers interact with us and may change the competitive landscape. Such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which may impact our relationship with these providers or affect the way that we price our products and estimate our costs and may require us to incur costs to change our operations, which could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. disadvantage, or the inability of providers to provide adequate care, could adversely affect our business. In addition, we do not have contracts with all providers that render services to our members and, as a result, may not have a pre-established agreement about the amount of compensation those out-of-network providers will accept for the services they render, which can result in significant litigation or arbitration proceedings, or provider attempts to obtain payment from our members for the difference between the amount we have paid and the amount they have charged. We face competition in many of our markets, and if we fail to adequately adapt to changes in our industry and develop and implement strategic growth opportunities, our ability to compete and grow may be adversely affected. business consolidations, new strategic alliances, new market entrants, aggressive marketing practices by other health benefits organizations and technological advancements. These factors have produced and will likely continue to produce, significant pressures on our profitability. Furthermore, decisions to buy our products and services are increasingly made or influenced by consumers, through means such as direct purchasing (for example, Medicare Advantage plans) and insurance exchanges that allow individual choice, or by large employers that may increasingly have the ability to contract directly with providers. This creates unique market pressures, and in order to compete effectively in the consumer-driven marketplace, we will be required to develop and deliver innovative and potentially disruptive products and services to satisfy evolving market demands. large retail pharmacy chains, large retail stores, supermarkets, other mail order pharmacies, web pharmacies and specialty pharmacies. Strong competition within the pharmacy benefit business has generated greater demand for lower product and service pricing, increased revenue sharing and enhanced product and service offerings. Our inability to maintain positive trends, contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers for, among other things, rebates, discounts and administrative fees or a failure to identify and implement new ways to mitigate pricing pressures, could negatively impact our ability to attract or retain customers, negatively impact our margins and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in membership to products with lower margins. In order to profitably grow our For additional information related to the ACA, see Part I, Item 1 Business and Part II, Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Our profitability is also dependent in part upon our ability to contract on favorable terms with hospitals, physicians, PBM service providers and other Our inability to contract with providers, or if providers attempt to use their market position to negotiate more favorable contracts or place us at a competitive As a health benefits company, we operate in a highly competitive environment and in an industry that is subject to significant changes from legislative reform, In addition, the PBM industry is highly competitive, and IngenioRx is subject to competition from national, regional and local PBMs, insurers, health plans, Furthermore, as a result of changes to traditional health insurance over the past several years, the health insurance industry has experienced a significant shift business in the future, we need to not only grow our profitable medical membership, but also continue to diversify our sources of revenue and earnings, including through the increased sale of our specialty products, such as dental, vision and other supplemental products, expansion of our non-insurance assets and establishment of new cost of care solutions, including innovations in PBM services. If we are unable to acquire or develop and successfully manage new opportunities that further our strategic objectives and differentiate our products from our competitors, our ability to profitably grow our business could be adversely affected. transparency provided by public exchanges and new market entrants, we face competitive pressures from new and existing competitors in the market for Individual health insurance. These risks may be enhanced if employers shift to defined contribution healthcare benefits plans and make greater utilization of private insurance exchanges or encourage their employees to purchase health insurance on the public exchanges. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully on these exchanges or that we will be able to benefit from any opportunities presented by such exchanges. If we are not competitive on these exchanges or are unsuccessful in reducing our cost structure, our future growth and profitability may be adversely impacted. respect to individuals, seniors and small employer group customers. We face intense competition for the services and allegiance of these independent agents and brokers, who may also market the products of our competitors. Our relationship with our brokers and independent agents could be adversely impacted by changes in our business practices to address legislative changes, including potential reductions in commissions and consulting fees paid to agents and brokers. We cannot ensure that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors for these services or that competitive pressures faced by us will not materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. A significant reduction in the enrollment in our health benefits or PBM products or services, particularly in states where we have large regional concentrations, could have an adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. condition and results of operations. Factors that could contribute to a reduction in enrollment include: reductions in workforce by existing customers a general economic upturn that results in fewer individuals being eligible for Medicaid programs a general economic downturn that results in business failures and high unemployment rates employers no longer offering certain healthcare coverage as an employee benefit or electing to offer coverage on a voluntary, employee- funded basis participation on public exchanges federal and state regulatory changes, including the elimination of the individual mandate penalty in the ACA failure to obtain new customers or retain existing customers premium increases and benefit changes our exit from a specific market negative publicity and news coverage and failure to attain or maintain nationally recognized accreditations. Virginia. Due to this concentration of business in these states, we are exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of state-specific or regional economic downturns impacting these states. If any such negative economic conditions do not improve, we may experience a reduction in existing and new business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. A cyber attack or other privacy or data security incident could result in an unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information, cause a loss of data, disrupt a large amount of our operations, give rise to remediation or other expenses, expose us to liability under federal and state laws, and subject us to litigation and investigations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. international laws and rules regarding the use and disclosure of certain sensitive or confidential information, including HIPAA, the HITECH Act, the Gramm- Leach-Bliley Act and numerous state laws governing personal information, including the California Consumer Privacy Act. Our facilities and systems, and those of our We also will have to respond to pricing and other actions taken by existing competitors and potentially disruptive new entrants. Also, due to the price We are currently dependent on the non-exclusive services of independent agents and brokers in the marketing of our healthcare products, particularly with A significant reduction in the number of enrollees in our health benefits or PBM products or services could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial The states in which we operate that have the largest concentrations of revenues include California, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, New York, Ohio, Texas and As part of our normal operations, we collect, process and retain certain sensitive and confidential information. We are subject to various federal, state and third-party service providers, are regularly the target of, and may be vulnerable to, cyber attacks, security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and or human errors or other threats. threats. In the event of such a cyber attack in the future, we may be subject to litigation and governmental investigations which could divert the attention of management from the operation of our business, result in reputational damage and have a material adverse impact on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. While we have contingency plans and insurance coverage for potential liabilities of this nature, they may not be sufficient to cover all claims and liabilities. or disrupt our information technology systems or business. We have security technologies, processes and procedures in place to protect against cybersecurity risks and security breaches. However, hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design, manufacturer defects or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. In addition, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, are becoming increasingly sophisticated, and may not immediately produce signs of intrusion, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, timely discover or counter them or implement adequate preventative measures. Viruses, worms or other malicious software programs may be used to attack our systems or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities, and such security attacks may cause system disruptions or shutdowns, or may cause personal information or proprietary or confidential information to be misappropriated or compromised. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage and unauthorized access remain a priority for us. technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions that in some cases involve processing, storing and transmitting large amounts of data for our business. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to reduce the impact of a security breach at a third- party vendor, such measures cannot provide absolute security, and these third-party providers may also experience security breaches or interruptions to their information technology hardware and software infrastructure and communications systems that could adversely impact us. misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of, or access to, sensitive or confidential member information, whether by us or by one of our third- party service providers, could require us to expend significant resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures and to remediate any damage. In addition, this could negatively affect our operations, cause system disruptions, damage our reputation, cause membership losses and contract breaches, and could also result in regulatory enforcement actions, material fines and penalties, litigation or other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. There are various risks associated with participating in Medicaid and Medicare programs, including dependence upon government funding and the timing of payments, compliance with government contracts and increased regulatory oversight. Medicare Supplement, Medicaid, TANF, SPD, LTSS, CHIP, ACA-related Medicaid expansion programs and various specialty programs. We also provide various administrative services for several other entities offering medical and or prescription drug plans to their Medicaid or Medicare eligible members through our affiliated companies, and we offer employer group waiver plans which provide medical and or prescription drug coverage to retirees. We are also participating in programs in several states for the care of dual-eligible members. These programs have been the subject of ongoing regulatory reform initiatives, and it is difficult to predict the impact of these and potential future regulatory reforms on our Government Business segment. Regulatory reform initiatives or additional changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We were the target of an external cyber attack in 2015 and have been, and will likely continue to be, the target of other attempted cyber attacks and security We cannot ensure that we will be able to identify, prevent or contain the effects of cyber attacks or other cybersecurity risks that bypass our security measures In addition, we use third-party technology, systems and services for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication Noncompliance with any privacy or security laws and regulations, or any security breach, cyber attack or cybersecurity breach, and any incident involving the We contract with various federal and state agencies, including CMS, to provide managed healthcare services, such as Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, state governments. The base premium rate paid by each state or federal agency differs depending upon a combination of various factors such as defined upper payment limits, a member s health status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix, member eligibility category and risk scores. Future Medicare and Medicaid rates may be affected by continued government efforts to contain costs as well as federal and state budgetary constraints. Additionally, ongoing CMS system changes related to the data it uses to calculate risk scores in the Medicare Advantage program may impact our federal funding. If the federal government or any state in which we operate were to decrease rates paid to us, pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends or seek an adjustment to previously negotiated rates, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Further, certain state contracts are subject to cancellation in the event of the unavailability of state funds. In addition, various states MMPs are still subject to uncertainty surrounding payment rates and other requirements, which could affect where we seek to participate in these programs. An unexpected reduction in payments, inadequate government funding or significantly delayed payments for these programs may adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. identified as a result of ongoing auditing and monitoring activities, potential uncollectability of receivables resulting from processing and or verifying enrollment, inadequacy of underwriting assumptions, inability to receive and process correct information (including inability due to systems issues by the federal government, the applicable state government or us), uncollectability of premiums from members, and limited enrollment periods. While we believe we have adequately reviewed our assumptions and estimates regarding these complex and wide-ranging programs under Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D, including those related to collectability of receivables and establishment of liabilities, actual results may be materially different than our assumptions and estimates and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, there is the possibility that the Medicare Advantage program could be significantly impacted by any future modification, repeal or replacement of the ACA. maintenance, quality measures, claims payment, encounter data, continuity of care, call center performance and other requirements specific to federal and state program regulations. We have been subject in the past, and may again be in the future, to administrative actions, fines, penalties, liquidated damages or retrospective adjustments in payments made to our health plans as a result of a failure to comply with those requirements, which has impacted and in the future could impact our profitability. In addition, we could be required to file a corrective plan of action with additional penalties for noncompliance, including a negative impact on future membership enrollment levels. Further, the majority of our CMS and state Medicaid contracts are subject to a competitive procurement process. Our existing contracts have not always been renewed, we have not always been awarded new contracts as a result of the competitive procurement process, and in some cases, we have lost members under existing contracts as a result of a post-award challenge, each of which could take place again in the future and have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. higher-rated plans tend to experience increased enrollment and plans with a Star rating of 4.0 or higher are eligible for quality-based bonus payments and can market to and enroll members year-round. Our Star ratings may be negatively impacted if we fail to meet the quality, performance and regulatory compliance criteria established by CMS. Furthermore, the Star rating system is subject to change annually by CMS, which may make it more difficult to achieve four stars or greater. If we do not maintain or continue to improve our Star ratings, fail to meet or exceed our competitors ratings, or if quality-based bonus payments are reduced or eliminated, we may experience a negative impact on our revenues and the benefits that our plans can offer, which could materially and adversely affect the marketability of our plans, our membership levels, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Similarly, a number of state Medicaid programs in which we participate have implemented performance standards, and if we fail to meet or exceed those standards, we may not receive performance-based bonus payments or may incur performance-based penalties. healthcare laws and regulations, including those directed at preventing fraud, abuse and discrimination in government-funded programs. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in investigations, litigation, fines, restrictions on, or exclusions from, program participation, or the imposition of corporate Revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs are dependent, in whole or in part, upon annual funding from the federal government and or applicable Other potential risks associated with Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D plans include increased medical or pharmaceutical costs, data corrections Our contracts with CMS and state governmental agencies contain certain provisions regarding data submission, risk adjustment, provider network Further, the Medicare Advantage Star rating system utilized by CMS to evaluate Medicare Advantage Plans may have a significant effect on our revenue, as In addition to the contractual requirements affecting our participation in Medicaid and Medicare programs, we are also subject to various federal and state integrity agreements or other agreements with a federal or state governmental agency, any of which could adversely impact our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. validate diagnostic data, patient claims and financial reporting, as well as audits by the Medicare Part D Recovery Audit Contractor, or RAC. CMS has recently proposed changing its audits in a way that could increase financial recoveries from health plans. These audits could result in significant adjustments in payments made to our health plans. In addition to these federal programs, the states in which we operate Medicaid plans conduct audits, and a number of states have implemented Medicaid RAC programs which were authorized by the ACA. State RAC programs could increase the number of audits and any subsequent recoupment by the federal and state governments, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to report and correct errors discovered through our own auditing procedures or during a CMS, state or RAC audit, or otherwise fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to fines, civil penalties or other sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to participate in these programs, and on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. underlying fee-for-service data errors and extrapolating RADV results at the contract level. If adopted in its current form, the rule could have a detrimental impact on all Medicare Advantage insurers. While it is uncertain whether CMS will issue the rule as proposed, if adopted, it could have a material adverse impact on our Medicare business and future results of operations. In addition to the proposed rule, there has been increased government scrutiny and civil litigation under the False Claims Act related to risk adjustment practices under the Medicare Advantage program. Government investigations, any enforcement actions and civil litigation could result in monetary damages, penalties and business practice changes that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. could adversely affect our membership and revenues if any of our state Medicare or Medicaid plans do not meet an applicable minimum MLR thresholds. If a Medicare Advantage, MMP or Medicare Part D contract pays minimum MLR rebates for three consecutive years, it will become ineligible to participate in open enrollment. If a Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D contract pays such rebates for five consecutive years, it will be terminated by CMS. A change in our healthcare product mix may impact our profitability. products where the employer groups assume the underwriting risks. Individuals and small employer groups are more likely to purchase our higher-risk healthcare products because such purchasers are generally unable or unwilling to bear greater liability for healthcare expenditures. Typically, government-sponsored programs also involve our higher-risk healthcare products. A shift of enrollees from more profitable products to less profitable products could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to litigation. suits, administrative charges before government agencies, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims and intellectual property-related litigation. In addition, because of the nature of our business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, administration and offering of our products and services. These could include claims relating to the denial or limitation of healthcare benefits federal and state false claims act laws dispensing of drugs associated with our PBM business professional liability claims arising out of the delivery of healthcare and related services to the public development or application of medical policies and coverage and clinical guidelines medical malpractice actions product liability claims allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities provider disputes over reimbursement and contracts provider tiering programs narrow networks termination of provider contracts the recovery of overpayments from providers self-funded business disputes over co-payment calculations reimbursement of out-of-network claims the failure to disclose certain business practices the failure to comply with various state or federal laws, including but not limited to, ERISA and the Mental Health We are periodically subject to government audits, including CMS Risk Adjustment Data Validation, or RADV audits, of our Medicare Advantage Plans to On November 1, 2018, CMS released a proposed rule that would revise its RADV methodology by, among other things, excluding an adjustment for Our Medicare and Medicaid contracts are also subject to various MLR rules, including minimum MLR thresholds, rebate requirements and audits, which Our healthcare products that involve greater potential risk generally tend to be more profitable than administrative services products and those healthcare We are, or may in the future be, a party to a variety of legal actions that may affect our business, such as employment and employment discrimination-related Parity Act and customer audits and contract performance, including government contracts. These actions or proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. of our operations, including, but not limited to, breaches of security and violations of privacy requirements, shareholder actions, compliance with federal and state laws and regulations (including qui tam or whistleblower actions), or sales and acquisitions of businesses or assets (including as a result of the terminated Cigna Merger Agreement, or as more fully described under Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Cigna Corporation Merger Litigation, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). From time to time, we are involved as a party in various governmental investigations, audits, reviews and administrative proceedings, including challenges relating to the award of government contracts. These investigations, audits and reviews include routine and special investigations by various state insurance departments, various federal regulators including CMS and the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG), state attorneys general, the Department of Justice (DOJ), and various offices of the U.S. Attorney General. Following an investigation, we may be subject to civil or criminal fines, penalties and other sanctions if we are determined to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations. Liabilities that may result from these actions could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. injunctive relief), treble or punitive damages may be sought. Although we maintain insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, some liabilities and damages may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. In addition, insurance coverage for all or certain forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. Any adverse judgment against us resulting in such damage awards could result in negative publicity and have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations as changes to, or the invalidation of, the ACA resulting from such litigation may be unfavorable to our business or may create uncertainty over the applicability and enforceability of portions of the law and related regulations, which impacts our strategy and could negatively impact our future growth opportunities. Cigna s pursuit of litigation in connection with the Cigna Merger Agreement, together with our own litigation against Cigna, could cause us to incur substantial costs, may present material distractions and, if decided adverse to Anthem, could negatively impact our financial condition. Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in February 2017, Cigna commenced litigation against us in the Delaware Court of Chancery, or the Delaware Court, for a declaratory judgment that its purported termination of the Cigna Merger Agreement was lawful and seeking damages against us. We promptly filed our own litigation against Cigna seeking to compel Cigna s specific performance of the Cigna Merger Agreement and damages against Cigna. In May 2017, after the Delaware Court denied our motion to enjoin Cigna from terminating the Cigna Merger Agreement, we delivered to Cigna a notice terminating the Cigna Merger Agreement. In the Delaware Court litigation, trial commenced in late February 2019 and concluded in March 2019, and closing arguments were held in November 2019. We have incurred, and likely will continue to incur, substantial litigation costs related to these lawsuits, and may incur substantial additional cost, including potential settlement and judgment costs. Our defense against Cigna s claims, the pursuit of our claims or the settlement, or failure to reach a settlement, for any claims may result in negative media attention, and may adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our PBM business and related operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that are in addition to those we face in our core healthcare business. we contract to provide. Our PBM business is subject to the risks inherent in the We are also involved in, or may in the future be party to, pending or threatened litigation of the character incidental to the business we transact or arising out Recent court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure for any of these types of claims. In some cases, substantial non-economic (including Further, litigation brought against the federal and some state governments over the ACA, including the 2018 ACA Decision, could have a material adverse As described in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Cigna Corporation Merger Litigation, of the Notes to We provide PBM services through our IngenioRx business, and we are responsible to regulators and our customers for the delivery of those PBM services that dispensing, packaging, fulfillment and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products, including claims related to dispensing and other operational errors. Any failure by us or one of our PBM services suppliers to adhere to the laws and regulations applicable to the dispensing of pharmaceuticals could subject our PBM business to civil and criminal penalties. and customers, including without limitation, federal and state anti-kickback laws, beneficiary inducement laws, consumer protection laws, ERISA, HIPAA and laws related to the operation of internet and mail-service pharmacies, as well as an increasing number of licensure, registration and other laws and accreditation standards that impact the business practices of a PBM business. In addition, the practice of pharmacy is subject to federal and state laws and regulation, including those of state boards of pharmacy, individual state-controlled substance authorities, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency and the FDA. Also, we and our third-party vendors are subject to registration requirements and state and federal laws concerning labeling, packaging, advertising, handling and adulteration of prescription drugs and dispensing of controlled substances. Federal and state legislatures also regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could materially affect current industry practices, including potential new legislation and regulations regarding the receipt or disclosure of rebates, discounts and other fees from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies and other utilization management tools, the use of average wholesale prices or other pricing benchmarks, pricing for specialty pharmaceuticals, limited access to networks and pharmacy network reimbursement methodologies. Noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations by us or our third-party vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and reputation and could expose us to civil and criminal penalties. rebates, discounts and administrative fees. We are dependent on the success of our relationships with third parties for various services and functions, including PBM services. third parties provide us with significant portions of our business infrastructure and operating requirements, and we could become overly dependent on key vendors, which could cause us to lose core competencies. A termination of our agreements with, or disruption in the performance of, one or more of these service providers could result in service disruptions or unavailability, reduced service quality and effectiveness, increased or duplicative costs or an inability to meet our obligations to our customers. In addition, we may also have to seek alternative service providers, which may be unavailable or only available on less favorable contract terms. Any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, reputation, cash flows, financial condition and operating results. fulfillment, to CVS Health pursuant to the CVS PBM Agreement. In addition, although we completed the transition of our members from Express Scripts to IngenioRx on January 1, 2020, Express Scripts continues to provide certain audit and various run-out transition services related to our PBM business pursuant to the ESI PBM Agreement. CVS Health began providing certain PBM administrative functions to IngenioRx pursuant to the CVS PBM Agreement beginning in the second quarter of 2019. In connection with the transition of PBM administrative functions to CVS Health, if CVS Health fails to provide PBM services as contractually required, we may not be able to meet the full demands of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations. For additional information on the agreement with CVS Health, see Business - General, in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10- K. In addition, the litigation between us and Express Scripts regarding the ESI PBM Agreement continues, as more fully described under Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Express Scripts, Inc. Pharmacy Benefit Management Litigation, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There are various risks associated with providing healthcare services. on our treatment decisions or brought against us or our associates for alleged malpractice or professional liability claims arising out of the delivery of healthcare and related services. In addition, liability may arise from maintaining healthcare premises that serve the public. The defense of any actions may result in significant Our PBM business is subject to federal and state laws and regulations that govern its relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, pharmacies Our PBM business would be adversely affected if we are unable to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers for, among other things, We contract with various third parties to perform certain functions and services and provide us with certain information technology systems. Certain of these In particular, beginning in the second quarter of 2019, we began delegating certain PBM administrative functions, such as claims processing and prescription The direct provision of healthcare services by certain of our subsidiaries involves risks of additional litigation arising from medical malpractice actions based expenses, and if we fail to maintain adequate insurance coverage for these liabilities, or if such insurance is not available, the resulting costs could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. comprised of licensed individuals. Business corporations generally may not exercise control over the medical decisions of physicians, and we are not licensed to practice medicine. Rules and regulations relating to the practice of medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources, and similar issues vary from state to state. Further, certain federal and state laws, including those covering our Medicare and Medicaid plans, prohibit the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any form of remuneration to induce, or in return for, the referral of patient care opportunities, including, but not limited to, Medicare patients, and also generally prohibit physicians from making referrals to any entity providing certain designated health services if the referring physician or related person has an ownership or financial interest in the entity. Any enforcement actions by governmental officials alleging non-compliance with these rules and regulations could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic partnerships and other business combinations involve risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operation. combinations, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations: The value of our intangible assets may become impaired. acquisitions, it is likely that we will record additional intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheets. The value we place on intangible assets may be adversely impacted if business combinations fail to perform in a manner consistent with our assumptions. Additionally, many states in which certain of our subsidiaries operate limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or professional organizations The following are some of the risks associated with mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances, referred to collectively as business some of the business combinations may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow, business opportunities, synergies, growth prospects and other anticipated benefits the goodwill or other intangible assets established as a result of our business combinations may be incorrectly valued or become non- recoverable we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us or which were underestimated we may experience difficulties in integrating business combinations, be unable to integrate business combinations successfully or as quickly as expected, and be unable to realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems business combinations, and proposed business combinations that are not completed, could disrupt our ongoing business, lead to the incurrence of significant fees, distract management, result in the loss of key employees, divert resources, result in tax costs or inefficiencies and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls, information technology systems, policies and procedures we may finance future business combinations by issuing common stock for some or all of the purchase price, which could dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders we may also incur additional debt related to future business combinations we would be competing with other firms, some of which may have greater financial and other resources, to acquire attractive companies we may experience disputes with our partners in our strategic alliances and joint ventures, which could result in litigation or a loss of business and future business combinations may make it difficult to comply with the requirements of the BCBSA and lead to an increased risk that our BCBSA license agreements may be terminated. Due largely to our past mergers and acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. If we make additional their carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to income may be necessary. This impairment testing requires us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the estimated fair value of our reporting units, including goodwill and other intangible assets. In addition, certain other intangible assets with indefinite lives, such as trademarks, are also tested separately. Estimated fair values developed based on our assumptions and judgments might be significantly different if other reasonable assumptions and estimates were to be used. If estimated fair values are less than the carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives in future impairment tests, or if significant impairment indicators are noted relative to other intangible assets subject to amortization, we may be required to record impairment losses against future income. equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in shareholders equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants. laws and regulations. Such decisions, which could unfavorably affect our ability to support the carrying value of certain goodwill and other intangible assets, could result in impairment charges in future periods. As a holding company, we are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are necessary to pay our outstanding indebtedness. Our regulated subsidiaries are subject to state regulations, including restrictions on the payment of dividends, maintenance of minimum levels of capital and restrictions on investment portfolios. intermediate holding companies and regulated insurance and HMO subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities. As a holding company, we depend on dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries. Furthermore, our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us, and creditors of our subsidiaries will have a superior claim to certain of our subsidiaries assets. Among other restrictions, state insurance and HMO laws may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. In some states, we have made special undertakings that may limit the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, our subsidiaries ability to make any payments to us will also depend on their earnings, the terms of their indebtedness, business and tax considerations and other legal restrictions. Our ability to repurchase shares or pay dividends in the future to our shareholders and meet our obligations, including paying operating expenses and debt service on our outstanding and future indebtedness, will depend upon the receipt of dividends from our subsidiaries. An inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends in the future in an amount sufficient for us to meet our financial obligations may materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. require our regulated subsidiaries to report their results of risk-based capital calculations to the departments of insurance and the NAIC. Failure to maintain the minimum RBC standards could subject our regulated subsidiaries to corrective action, including state supervision or liquidation. Changes to the existing RBC standards or the adoption of an RBC requirement at the holding company level, which is currently being considered and developed by the NAIC and various states, could further restrict our or our regulated subsidiaries ability to pay dividends and adversely affect our business. In addition, as discussed in more detail below, we are a party to license agreements with the BCBSA which contain certain requirements and restrictions regarding our operations, including minimum capital and liquidity requirements, which could restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. investments in certain riskier investment categories, such as below-investment-grade fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, real estate and equity investments, which could generate higher returns on their investments. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations might cause investments exceeding regulatory limitations to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus and risk-based capital, and, in some instances, require the sale of those investments. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of Any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially affect our results of operations and shareholders In addition, the estimated fair value of our reporting units may be impacted as a result of business decisions we make associated with any future changes to We are a holding company whose assets include the outstanding shares of common stock (or other ownership interest) of our subsidiaries including our Most of our regulated subsidiaries are subject to RBC standards or other forms of minimum capital requirements imposed by their states of domicile, which Our regulated subsidiaries are subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of their investment portfolios and limit the amount of We have substantial indebtedness outstanding and may incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with acquisitions or otherwise. Such indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to pursue desirable business opportunities and to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and exposes us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate indebtedness. funding future expansion. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to seek extraordinary dividends from our subsidiaries, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. However, these measures might be unsuccessful or inadequate to meet scheduled debt service obligations, or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. financial and operational flexibility. Our breach or failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit facilities or other indebtedness. If we default under our credit agreement, the lenders could cease to make further extensions of credit or cause all of our outstanding debt obligations under our credit agreement to become immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If the indebtedness under our notes or our credit agreement or our other indebtedness is accelerated, we may be unable to repay or finance the amounts due, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Changes in the method of determining the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate, may adversely affect the market for or value of our outstanding debt and the interest rate, return, value and liquidity of certain of our investments. based, floating rate debt investments. In July 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority, a regulator of financial services firms in the United Kingdom, announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021. In response to concerns regarding the future of LIBOR, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York convened the Alternative Reference Rates Committee ( ARRC ) to identify alternatives to LIBOR. The ARRC has recommended a benchmark replacement waterfall to assist issuers in continued capital market entry while safeguarding against LIBOR s discontinuation. The initial steps in the ARRC s recommended provision reference variations of the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ( SOFR ). At this time, it is not possible to predict whether SOFR will attain market traction as a LIBOR replacement. rates or any other reforms to LIBOR or any replacement of LIBOR that may be enacted in the United Kingdom or elsewhere. Such changes, reforms or replacements relating to LIBOR could have an adverse impact on the market for or value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, derivatives or other financial obligations or extensions of credit entered into by us, as well as the interest rate, return, value, and liquidity of any LIBOR-based securities held in our investment portfolios, and could adversely impact our cost of capital, overall financial condition or results of operations. A downgrade in our credit ratings could have an adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and health benefits companies. We believe our strong credit ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to customers, since credit ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used by customers and creditors. In addition, if our credit ratings are downgraded or placed under review, our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted by limitations on future borrowings and a potential increase in our borrowing costs. Our ratings reflect each rating agency s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our obligations to policyholders and creditors, and are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock. Each of the ratings organizations reviews our ratings periodically, and there can be no assurance that our current ratings will be maintained in the future. Our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest and principal on debt instead of for other corporate purposes, including We may also incur future debt obligations, in connection with acquisitions or otherwise, that might subject us to restrictive covenants that could affect our A portion of our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on LIBOR, and our investment portfolio also includes some LIBOR- We are unable to predict whether LIBOR will cease to exist after calendar year 2021, the effect of any changes, any establishment of alternative reference Claims-paying ability as well as financial strength ratings and debt ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are an important factor in The health benefits industry is subject to negative publicity, which could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. of care initiatives and the ongoing debate over laws and regulations impacting the U.S. healthcare system. Negative publicity may result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices, which may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by limiting our ability to market or provide our products and services, requiring us to change our products and services, or increasing the regulatory oversight under which we operate. In addition, as long as we use the BCBS names and marks in marketing our health benefits products and services, any negative publicity concerning the BCBSA or other BCBSA licensees may adversely affect us and the sale of our health benefits products and services. Negative public perception or publicity of the health benefits industry in general, the BCBSA, other BCBSA licensees, or us or our key vendors in particular, could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to effectively maintain and upgrade our information systems could adversely affect our business. of our merger and acquisition activities, we have acquired and expect to acquire additional systems. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and develop new systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, emerging cybersecurity risks and threats, evolving industry and regulatory standards including public exchanges and other aspects of the ACA, compliance with legal requirements, private insurance exchanges and changing customer preferences. In addition, we may from time to time obtain significant portions of our systems-related or other services or facilities from independent third parties, which may make our operations vulnerable if such third parties fail to perform adequately. to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems to eliminate redundant or obsolete applications, could result in competitive and cost disadvantages to us compared to our competitors, a diversion of management s time and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the information we rely upon to run our business were found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to adequately maintain our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could experience problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing and reserves, have disputes with customers and providers, face regulatory problems, including sanctions and penalties, incur increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences, including a decrease in membership. We are a party to license agreements with the BCBSA that entitle us to the exclusive and, in certain areas, non-exclusive use of the BCBS names and marks in our geographic territories. The termination of these license agreements or changes in the terms and conditions of these license agreements could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. contain certain requirements and restrictions regarding our operations and our use of the BCBS names and marks, including: minimum capital and liquidity requirements enrollment and customer service performance requirements participation in programs that provide portability of membership between plans disclosures to the BCBSA relating to enrollment and financial conditions disclosures as to the structure of the BCBS system in contracts with third parties and in public statements plan governance requirements cybersecurity requirements a requirement that at least 80% (or, in the case of Blue Cross of California, substantially all) of a licensee s annual combined local net revenue, as defined by the BCBSA, attributable to healthcare plans and related services within its service areas must be sold, marketed, administered or underwritten under the BCBS names and marks a requirement that at least two-thirds of a licensee s annual combined national net revenue, as defined by the BCBSA, attributable to healthcare plans and related services must be sold, marketed, administered or underwritten under the BCBS names and marks a requirement that neither a plan nor any of its licensed affiliates may permit an entity other than a plan or a licensed affiliate to obtain control of the plan or the licensed affiliate or to acquire a substantial portion of its assets related to licensable services a requirement that we divide our Board of Directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms a requirement that we guarantee certain contractual and The health benefits industry is subject to negative publicity, which can arise from, among other things, increases in premium rates, industry consolidation, cost Our business depends significantly on effective information systems, and we have many different information systems for our various businesses. As a result Failure to adequately implement and maintain effective and efficient information systems with sufficiently advanced technological capabilities, or our failure We use the BCBS names and marks as identifiers for our products and services under licenses from the BCBSA. Our license agreements with the BCBSA financial obligations of our licensed affiliates and a requirement that we indemnify the BCBSA against any claims asserted against it resulting from the contractual and financial obligations of any subsidiary that serves as a fiscal intermediary providing administrative services for Medicare Parts A and B. Failure to comply with the foregoing requirements could result in a termination of the license agreements. have a material adverse effect on our future expansion plans or results of operations. Further, BCBS licensees have certain requirements to perform administrative services for members of other BCBS licensees. As of December 31, 2019, we provided services to approximately 30 million Blue Cross and or Blue Shield enrollees. If we or another BCBS licensee are not in compliance with all legal requirements or are unable to perform administrative services as required, this could have an adverse effect on our members and our ability to maintain our licenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. BCBS health insurance products and services in one or more of our service areas. Furthermore, the BCBSA would be free to issue a license to use the BCBS names and marks in these service areas to another entity. Our existing BCBS members would be provided with instructions for obtaining alternative products and services licensed by the BCBSA. Events that could cause the termination of a license agreement with the BCBSA include, without limitation, failure to comply with minimum capital requirements imposed by the BCBSA, failure to comply with governance requirements such as maintaining a classified board structure, a change of control or violation of the BCBSA ownership limitations on our capital stock, impending financial insolvency and the appointment of a trustee or receiver or the commencement of any action against a licensee seeking its dissolution. We believe that the BCBS names and marks are valuable identifiers of our products and services in the marketplace. the establishment of a replacement Blue Cross and or Blue Shield licensee in the vacated service area. The fee is set at 98.33 per licensed enrollee. If the Re- establishment Fee was applied to our total Blue Cross and or Blue Shield enrollees of approximately 30 million as of December 31, 2019, we would be assessed approximately 3 billion by the BCBSA. As a result, termination of the license agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be impacted by natural disasters, war, terrorism, political events, global climate change and other occurrences that could create large- scale medical emergencies or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Large-scale medical emergencies can take many forms and can cause widespread illness and death. For example, federal and state law enforcement officials have issued warnings about potential terrorist activity involving biological and other weapons. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes and the potential for a widespread pandemic of influenza or other illness and the lack of availability of appropriate preventative medicines can have a significant impact on the health of the population of widespread areas. If the United States were to experience widespread bioterrorism or other attacks, large-scale natural disasters in our concentrated coverage areas or a large-scale pandemic or epidemic, our covered medical expenses could rise, our operations could be interrupted and we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations or, in the event of extreme circumstances, our viability could be threatened. Furthermore, global climate change could result in certain types of natural disasters occurring more frequently or with more intense effects, and may have a long-term effect on general economic conditions and the healthcare or pharmacy industry in particular, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs. for certain issuers. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, make payments on our indebtedness and pay capital expenditures. The principal sources of our cash receipts are premiums, administrative fees, investment income, revenue received from IngenioRx and DBG, proceeds from the sale or maturity of The license agreements may be modified by the BCBSA. To the extent that such amendments to the license agreements are adopted in the future, they could Upon the occurrence of an event causing termination of the license agreements, we would no longer have the right to use the BCBS names and marks or to sell Upon termination of a license agreement, the BCBSA would have the right to impose a Re-establishment Fee upon us, which would be used in part to fund Natural disasters, war, terrorism, political events, global climate change and other similar occurrences could create large-scale medical emergencies or During periods of increased volatility, adverse securities and credit markets may exert downward pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity our investment securities, proceeds from borrowings and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock plans. activities, the availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If one or a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The value of our investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions, and a decrease in value may result in a loss charged to income. investments at prices that are less than the carrying value of the investments. During periods in which interest rates are relatively low, as in recent years, our investment income could be adversely impacted. In addition, in periods of declining interest rates, bond calls and mortgage loan prepayments generally increase, resulting in the reinvestment of these funds at the then lower market rates. In periods of rising interest rates, the market values of our fixed maturity securities will generally decrease, which could result in material losses on investments in future periods. In addition, defaults by issuers, primarily from investments in corporate and municipal bonds, who fail to pay or perform their obligations, could reduce net investment income, which would adversely affect our profitability. We cannot assure you that our investment portfolios will produce positive returns or maintain their present values. report those securities at fair value. Current and long-term available-for-sale investment securities represented a significant percentage of our total consolidated assets at December 31, 2019. impairment, and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. Over time, the economic and market environment may provide additional insight into the value of our investment securities, which could change our judgment regarding the fair value of certain securities and or impairment. Given the sometimes rapidly changing market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that future declines in fair value may occur and material other-than-temporary impairments may be charged to income in future periods, resulting in realized losses. We face intense competition to attract and retain employees. Further, managing key executive transition, succession and retention is critical to our success. joined us through acquisitions. We face intense competition for qualified employees, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such employees or that such competition among potential employers will not result in increasing salaries. An inability to retain existing employees or attract additional employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading The market values of our investments vary from time to time depending on economic and market conditions. For various reasons, we may sell certain of our In accordance with FASB guidance for investments, we classify fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio as available-for-sale or trading and Changes in the economic environment, including periods of increased volatility in the securities markets, can increase the difficulty of assessing investment Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees to meet current and future needs, and to integrate and engage employees who have and retention of key executives. While we have succession plans in place for members of our senior management, and employment arrangements with certain key executives, these plans and arrangements do not guarantee that the services of our senior executives will continue to be available to us or that we will be able to attract, transition and retain suitable successors. We are subject to various risks associated with our international operations. they are organized or conduct business, which requires us to devote resources to implement controls and systems in new foreign jurisdictions to comply with, and to ensure that our vendors and partners comply with, U.S. and foreign laws and regulations. These regulatory regimes encompass, among other matters, local and cross-border taxation, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, investment, capital (including minimum solvency margin and reserve requirements), management control, labor, anti-fraud, anti-corruption and privacy and data protection regulations (including requirements for cross-border data transfers), which vary by jurisdiction. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or employees, restrictions or outright prohibitions on the conduct of our business and significant reputational harm. Changes in U.S. tax laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to realize the value of our deferred tax assets. and regulations by federal and or state authorities, could have a material impact on the future value of our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, could result in significant one-time charges in the current or future taxable years and could increase our future U.S. tax expense. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. deferred tax liabilities represent the tax effect of temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting measured at tax rates enacted at the time the deferred tax asset or liability is recorded. At each financial reporting date, we evaluate our deferred tax assets to determine the likely realization of the benefit of the temporary differences. Our evaluation includes a review of the types of temporary differences that created the deferred tax asset the amount of taxes paid on both capital gains and ordinary income in prior periods and available for a carry-back claim the forecasted future taxable income, and therefore, the likely future deduction of the deferred tax item and any other significant issues that might impact the realization of the deferred tax asset. If it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset may not be realized, we establish a valuation allowance. Significant judgment is required in determining an appropriate valuation allowance. affect our financial position and results of operations in the period in which the increase occurs. A material decrease in shareholders equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants. Indiana law, other applicable laws, our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and provisions of our BCBSA license agreements may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interest. consider to be in their best interests. For instance, they may prevent our shareholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. subsidiaries are domiciled, as well as similar provisions included in the health statutes and regulations of certain states where these subsidiaries are regulated as managed care companies or HMOs. The insurance We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of our President and Chief Executive Officer and other senior management Certain of our subsidiaries that provide services to some of our health plans operate internationally and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which Changes in tax laws and regulations, including with respect to corporate tax rates and the deductibility of expenses, or changes in the interpretation of tax laws In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we separately recognize deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Such deferred tax assets and Any future increase in our valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense and a decrease in shareholders equity, which could materially Indiana law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our shareholders might We are regulated as an insurance holding company and subject to the insurance holding company acts of the states in which our insurance company holding company acts and regulations and these similar provisions restrict the ability of any person to obtain control of an insurance company or HMO without prior regulatory approval. Under those statutes and regulations, without such approval or an exemption, no person may acquire any voting security of a domestic insurance company or HMO, or an insurance holding company which controls an insurance company or HMO, or merge with such a holding company, if as a result of such transaction such person would control the insurance holding company, insurance company or HMO. Control is generally defined as the direct or indirect power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person and is presumed to exist if a person directly or indirectly owns or controls 10% or more of the voting securities of another person. Further, the Indiana Business Corporation Law contains business combination provisions that, in general, prohibit for five years any business combination with a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our common stock unless the holder s acquisition of the stock was approved in advance by our Board of Directors. beneficial ownership of our voting capital stock to less than 10% for institutional investors and less than 5% for non-institutional investors, both as defined in our articles of incorporation. Additionally, no person may beneficially own shares of our common stock representing a 20% or more ownership interest in us. These restrictions are intended to ensure our compliance with the terms of our licenses with the BCBSA. Our articles of incorporation prohibit ownership of our capital stock beyond these ownership limits without prior approval of a majority of our continuing directors (as defined in our articles of incorporation). In addition, as discussed above in the risk factor describing our license agreements with the BCBSA, such license agreements are subject to termination upon a change of control and a re-establishment fee would be imposed upon termination of the license agreements. attempt that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. In particular, our articles of incorporation and bylaws: divide our Board of Directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms (which is required by our license agreement with the BCBSA) permit our Board of Directors to determine the terms of and issue one or more series of preferred stock without further action by shareholders restrict the maximum number of directors limit the ability of shareholders to remove directors impose restrictions on shareholders ability to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at meetings of shareholders and prohibit shareholders from amending certain provisions of our bylaws. We also face other risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, which include: ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. in each state where we operate as licensees of the BCBSA, in each state where Amerigroup conducts business and in certain other states and countries where our other subsidiaries operate. A majority of these locations are also leased properties. Our facilities support our various business segments. We believe that our properties are adequate and suitable for our business as presently conducted as well as for the foreseeable future. Our articles of incorporation restrict the beneficial ownership of our capital stock in excess of specific ownership limits. The ownership limits restrict Certain other provisions included in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may also have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover any requirement to restate financial results in the event of inappropriate application of accounting principles a significant failure of our internal control over financial reporting failure of our prevention and control systems related to employee compliance with internal policies, including data security healthcare benefits fraud by providers, members and or brokers that is not prevented or detected and impacts our medical costs or those of self-insured customers failure to protect our proprietary information and failure of our corporate governance policies or procedures. We lease our principal executive offices located at 220 Virginia Avenue, Indianapolis, Indiana. In addition to this location, we have operating facilities located ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. For information regarding our legal proceedings, see Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings, of the Notes to Not applicable. ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Market Information Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 1 Total number of shares purchased includes 6,079 shares delivered to or withheld by us in connection with employee payroll tax withholding upon exercise or vesting of stock awards. Stock grants to employees and directors and stock issued for stock option plans and stock purchase plans in the consolidated statements of shareholders equity are shown net of these shares purchased. 2 Represents the number of shares repurchased through the common stock repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors, which the Board evaluates periodically. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we repurchased 6,332,989 shares at a cost of 1,701 under the program, including the cost of options to purchase shares. The Board of Directors has authorized our common stock repurchase program since 2003. The Board s most recent authorized increase to the program was 5,000 on December 7, 2017. No duration has been placed on our common stock repurchase program, and we reserve the right to discontinue the program at any time. (In millions, except share and per share data) October 1, 2019 to October 31, 2019 672,357 244.58 670,000 3,934 November 1, 2019 to November 30, 2019 282,903 276.20 279,500 3,857 December 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019 222,613 290.75 222,294 3,792 1,177,873 1,171,794  Our common stock, par value 0.01 per share, is listed on the NYSE under the symbol ANTM. As of February 6, 2020, there were 57,967 shareholders of record of our common stock. The information required by this Item concerning securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans is set forth in Part III, Item 12 The following table presents information related to our repurchases of common stock for the periods indicated: Total Number of Shares Purchased1 Average Price Paid per Share Total Number Purchased as Announced Programs2 Part of Publicly Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Programs Performance Graph December 31, 2014 through December 31, 2019, with the cumulative total return over such period of (i) the Standard & Poor s 500 Stock Index (the S&P 500 Index ) and (ii) the Standard & Poor s Managed Health Care Index (the S&P Managed Health Care Index ). The graph assumes an investment of 100 on December 31, 2014 in each of our common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Managed Health Care Index (and the reinvestment of all dividends). indicative of, and is not intended to forecast, the potential future performance of our common stock. Information used in the graph was obtained from S&P Global Market Intelligence, a source believed to be reliable, but we are not responsible for any errors or omissions in such information. The following graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting materials or to be filed with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Exchange Act, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. Based upon an initial investment of 100 on December 31, 2014 with dividends reinvested. December 31, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Anthem, Inc. 100 113 119 188 222 259 S&P 500 Index 100 101 114 138 132 174 S&P Managed Health Care Index 100 122 146 210 232 279  The following Performance Graph and related information compares the cumulative total return to shareholders of our common stock for the period from The comparisons shown in the graph below are based on historical data, and we caution that the stock price performance shown in the graph below is not ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. each of the years in the five-year period ended December 31, 2019. You should read this selected consolidated financial data in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019 included in Part II, Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and Part II, Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10- K. 1 The net assets of and results of operations for America s 1st Choice, HealthSun and Simply Healthcare are included from their respective acquisition dates of February 15, 2018, December 21, 2017 and February 17, 2015, respectively. 2 Operating revenue is obtained by adding premiums and administrative fees and other revenue. 3 The benefit expense ratio represents benefit expenses as a percentage of premium revenue. 4 The selling, general and administrative expense ratio represents selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total operating revenue. 5 Cash and investments is obtained by adding cash and cash equivalents, current and long-term fixed maturity securities and current and long-term equity securities. As of and for the Years Ended December 31 2019 2018 1 2017 1 2016 2015 1 (in millions, except where indicated and except per share data) Income Statement Data Total operating revenue2 103,141 91,341 89,061 84,194 78,405 Total revenues 104,213 92,105 90,040 84,863 79,157 Net income 4,807 3,750 3,843 2,470 2,560 Per Share Data Basic net income per share 18.81 14.53 14.70 9.39 9.73 Diluted net income per share 18.47 14.19 14.35 9.21 9.38 Dividends per share 3.20 3.00 2.70 2.60 2.50 Other Data (unaudited) Benefit expense ratio3 86.8% 84.2% 86.4% 84.8% 83.3% Selling, general and administrative expense ratio4 13.0% 15.3% 14.2% 14.9% 16.0% Income before income tax expense as a percentage of total revenues 5.7% 5.5% 4.4% 5.4% 5.9% Net income as a percentage of total revenues 4.6% 4.1% 4.3% 2.9% 3.2% Medical membership (in thousands) 41,000 39,938 40,299 39,940 38,599 Balance Sheet Data Cash and investments5 26,157 22,639 25,179 23,263 21,065 Total assets 77,453 71,571 70,540 65,083 61,718 Long-term debt, less current portion 17,787 17,217 17,382 14,359 15,325 Total liabilities 45,725 43,030 44,037 39,982 38,673 Total shareholders equity 31,728 28,541 26,503 25,101 23,045  The table below provides selected consolidated financial data of Anthem. The information has been derived from our consolidated financial statements for ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. References to the terms we, our, us, Anthem or the Company used throughout this MD&A refer to Anthem, Inc., an Indiana corporation, and, unless the context otherwise requires, its direct and indirect subsidiaries. References to the states include the District of Columbia, unless the context otherwise requires. detailed discussion of 2017 items and year-over-year comparisons between 2018 and 2017 that are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K can be found in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. our affiliated health plans as of December 31, 2019. We are an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, or BCBSA, an association of independent health benefit plans. We serve our members as the Blue Cross licensee for California and as the Blue Cross and Blue Shield, or BCBS, licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (in the New York City metropolitan area and upstate New York), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.) and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas, we do business as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, and Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield or Empire Blue Cross. We also conduct business through arrangements with other BCBS licensees as well as other strategic partners. Through our subsidiaries, we also serve customers in numerous states across the country as Aim Specialty Health, Amerigroup, Aspire Health, CareMore, Freedom Health, HealthLink, HealthSun, Optimum HealthCare, Simply Healthcare, and or UniCare. Also, in the second quarter of 2019, we began providing pharmacy benefits management, or PBM, services through our IngenioRx subsidiary. We are licensed to conduct insurance operations in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through our subsidiaries. of 2019, our Other segment included certain eliminations and corporate expenses not allocated to either of our other reportable segments. Beginning with the second quarter of 2019, our Other segment also includes IngenioRx, our pharmacy benefits manager, which began operations during the second quarter of 2019. In addition, during the second quarter of 2019, we reclassified our Diversified Business Group, or DBG, our integrated health services business, from our Government Business segment to the Other segment to reflect changes in how our segments are being managed. Amounts for prior years have been reclassified through this MD&A to conform to the current year presentation for comparability. Based on the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, guidance, as of December 31, 2019, IngenioRx and DBG did not collectively meet the quantitative thresholds for a reportable segment. indemnify our policyholders against costs for covered health and life benefits. Administrative fees and other revenue come from contracts where our customers are self-insured, or where the fee is based on either the processing of transactions or a percent of network discount savings realized, revenues from our Medicare processing business and from other health-related businesses, including disease management programs and miscellaneous other income. Administrative fees and other revenue also include product revenue for PBM services performed by IngenioRx to unaffiliated PBM customers, including our self-funded groups that have contracted with IngenioRx for PBM services, and beginning in 2020, to third-party health plans. care, professional services (primarily physician care) and pharmacy benefit costs. All four components are affected both by unit costs and utilization rates. Unit costs include the cost of outpatient medical procedures This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or MD&A, should be read in conjunction with our audited This section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K generally discusses 2019 and 2018 items and year-over-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018. A We are one of the largest health benefits companies in the United States in terms of medical membership, serving approximately 41 medical members through We manage our operations through three reportable segments: Commercial & Specialty Business, Government Business and Other. Prior to the second quarter Our operating revenue consists of premiums and administrative fees and other revenue. Premium revenue comes from fully-insured contracts where we Our benefit expense primarily includes costs of care for health services consumed by our fully-insured members, such as outpatient care, inpatient hospital (In Millions, Except Per Share Data or As Otherwise Stated Herein) per visit, inpatient hospital care per admission, physician fees per office visit and prescription drug prices. Utilization rates represent the volume of consumption of health services and typically vary with the age and health status of our members and their social and lifestyle choices, along with clinical protocols and medical practice patterns in each of our markets. A portion of benefit expense recognized in each reporting period consists of actuarial estimates of claims incurred but not yet paid by us. Any changes in these estimates are recorded in the period the need for such an adjustment arises. While we offer a diversified mix of managed care products and services through our managed care plans, our aggregate cost of care can fluctuate based on a change in the overall mix of these products and services. Our managed care plans include: Preferred Provider Organizations Health Maintenance Organizations, or HMOs Point-of-Service plans traditional indemnity plans and other hybrid plans, including Consumer-Driven Health Plans and hospital only and limited benefit products. improve our members health and medical outcomes. These claims-related costs may be comprised of expenses incurred for: (i) medical management, including case and prospective utilization management (ii) health and wellness, including disease management services for such conditions as diabetes, high-risk pregnancies, congestive heart failure and asthma management and wellness initiatives like weight-loss programs and smoking cessation treatments and (iii) clinical health policy, such as identification and use of best clinical practices to avoid harm, identifying clinical errors and safety concerns, and identifying potential adverse drug interactions. These types of claims-related costs are designed to ultimately lower our members cost of care. including any co-payments made by or on behalf of the customer, per-claim administrative fees for prescription fulfillment and certain direct costs related to sales and administration of customer contracts. facilities expenses. Certain variable costs, such as premium taxes, vary directly with premium volume. Commission expense generally varies with premium or membership volume. Other variable costs, such as salaries and benefits, do not vary directly with changes in premium but are more aligned with changes in membership. The acquisition or loss of a significant block of business would likely impact staffing levels and thus, associated compensation expense. Other variable costs include professional and consulting expenses and advertising. Other factors can impact our administrative cost structure, including systems efficiencies, inflation and changes in productivity. providers of care to our members and our medical management and health and wellness programs. Several economic factors related to healthcare costs, such as regulatory mandates of coverage as well as direct-to-consumer advertising by providers and pharmaceutical companies, have a direct impact on the volume of care consumed by our members. The potential effect of escalating healthcare costs, any changes in our ability to negotiate competitive rates with our providers and any regulatory or market-driven restrictions on our ability to obtain adequate premium rates to offset overall inflation in healthcare costs, including increases in unit costs and utilization resulting from the aging of the population and other demographics, as well as advances in medical technology, may impose further risks to our ability to profitably underwrite our business, and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Business Trends changed and may continue to make broad-based changes to the U.S. healthcare system. We expect the ACA will continue to impact our business model and strategy. Also, the legal challenges regarding the ACA, including a federal district court decision invalidating the ACA, or the 2018 ACA Decision , which judgment has been stayed pending appeal, could significantly disrupt our business. During 2019, we modestly expanded our participation in the Individual ACA- compliant market. Our strategy has been, and will continue to be, to only participate in rating regions where we have an appropriate level of confidence that these markets are on a path toward sustainability, including, but not limited to, factors such as expected financial performance, regulatory environment, and underlying market characteristics. We We classify certain claims-related costs as benefit expense to reflect costs incurred for our members traditional medical care, as well as those expenses which Our cost of products sold represents the cost of prescription drugs dispensed by IngenioRx to unaffiliated PBM customers (net of rebates or discounts), Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of fixed and variable costs. Examples of fixed costs are depreciation, amortization and certain Our results of operations depend in large part on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage healthcare costs through effective contracting with For additional information about our business and reportable segments, see Part I, Item 1, Business and Note 19, Segment Information of the Notes to The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, as amended, or collectively, the ACA, has currently offer Individual ACA-compliant products in 91 of the 143 rating regions in which we operate. In addition, the continuing growth in our government- sponsored business exposes us to increased regulatory oversight. self-funded Anthem health plan customers throughout the country, as well as to customers outside of the health plans we own. This comprehensive product portfolio includes features such as drug formularies, a pharmacy network, prescription drug database, member services and mail order capabilities. In July 2019, we announced our first contract win with a third-party health insurer, Blue Cross of Idaho, and we began providing PBM services under that contract beginning on January 1, 2020. Also beginning in the second quarter of 2019, we began delegating certain PBM administrative functions, such as claims processing and prescription fulfillment, to CaremarkPCS Health, L.L.C., or CVS Health, which is a subsidiary of CVS Health Corporation, pursuant to a five-year agreement with CVS Health, or the CVS PBM Agreement. We intend to retain the responsibilities for IngenioRx s clinical and formulary strategy and development, member and employer experiences, operations, sales, marketing, account management and retail network strategy. From December 2009 through December 2019, we delegated certain PBM functions and administrative services to Express Scripts, Inc., or Express Scripts, pursuant to our PBM agreement with Express Scripts, or the ESI PBM Agreement. In January 2019, we exercised our contractual right to terminate the ESI PBM Agreement earlier than the original expiration date of December 31, 2019 due to the acquisition of Express Scripts by Cigna Corporation, or Cigna. We began transitioning existing members from Express Scripts to IngenioRx in the second quarter of 2019, and completed the transition of all of our members on January 1, 2020. Prior to the termination of the ESI PBM Agreement, Express Scripts managed the network of pharmacy providers, operated mail order pharmacies and processed prescription drug claims on our behalf, while we sold and supported the product for our members, made formulary decisions, sold drug benefit design strategy and provided front line members support. We expect IngenioRx to provide our members with more cost-effective solutions and improve our ability to integrate pharmacy benefits within our medical and specialty platform. Pricing Trends: We strive to price our healthcare benefit products consistent with anticipated underlying medical trends. We frequently make adjustments to respond to legislative and regulatory changes as well as pricing and other actions taken by existing competitors and new market entrants. Product pricing in our Commercial & Specialty Business segment, including our Individual and Small Group lines of business, remains competitive. Revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs are dependent, in whole or in part, upon annual funding from the federal government and or applicable state governments. The ACA imposed an annual Health Insurance Provider Fee, or HIP Fee, on health insurers that write certain types of health insurance on U.S. risks. We price our affected products to cover the impact of the HIP Fee when applicable. The HIP Fee was suspended for 2019, has resumed for 2020 and has been permanently repealed beginning in 2021. Medical Cost Trends: Our medical cost trends are primarily driven by increases in the utilization of services across all provider types and the unit cost increases of these services. We work to mitigate these trends through various medical management programs such as utilization management, condition management, program integrity and specialty pharmacy management, as well as benefit design changes. There are many drivers of medical cost trends that can cause variance from our estimates, such as changes in the level and mix of services utilized, regulatory changes, aging of the population, health status and other demographic characteristics of our members, epidemics, advances in medical technology, new high cost prescription drugs, and healthcare provider or member fraud. Our underlying Local Group medical cost trends reflect the allowed amount, or contractual rate, paid to providers. We estimate that our aggregate cost of care trend for the full year of 2019 was approximately 6.0%, at the midpoint of our 5.5% to 6.5% estimated range for the year. We anticipate the Local Group medical cost trend in 2020 will be in the range of 3.5% to 4.5%, including the benefit of lower pharmacy cost from the launch of IngenioRx and other medical cost management initiatives. Regulatory Trends and Uncertainties products are designed, underwritten, priced, distributed and administered. Changes to our business environment are likely to continue as elected officials at the national and state levels continue to enact, and both elected officials and candidates for election continue to propose, significant modifications to existing laws and regulations, including changes to taxes and fees. In addition, the legal challenges regarding the ACA, including the 2018 In the second quarter of 2019, we began using our new pharmacy benefits manager called IngenioRx to market and sell a PBM product to fully-insured and For additional discussion regarding business trends, see Part I, Item 1 Business of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The ACA presented us with new growth opportunities, but also introduced new risks, regulatory challenges and uncertainties, and required changes in the way ACA Decision, which judgment has been stayed pending appeal, continue to contribute to this uncertainty. We will continue to evaluate the impact of the ACA as any further developments or judicial rulings occur. year to the amount of health insurance premium for all U.S. health risk for those certain lines of business written during the preceding calendar year. We record our estimated liability for the HIP Fee in full at the beginning of the year with a corresponding deferred asset that is amortized on a straight-line basis to selling, general and administrative expense. The final calculation and payment of the annual HIP Fee is due by September 30th of each fee year. The HIP Fee is non-deductible for federal income tax purposes. Our affected products are priced to cover the increased selling, general and administrative and income tax expenses associated with the HIP Fee. The total amount due from allocations to health insurers was 14,300 for 2018, and we recognized 1,544 as selling, general and administrative expense related to the HIP Fee. There was no corresponding expense for 2019 due to the suspension of the HIP Fee for 2019. The HIP Fee has resumed and increased to 15,523 for 2020 and has been permanently eliminated beginning in 2021. minimum MLR thresholds of 85% for Large Group and 80% for Small Group and Individual lines of business. Plans that do not meet the minimum thresholds have to pay a MLR rebate. For purposes of determining MLR rebates, HHS has defined the types of costs that should be included in the MLR rebate calculation. However, certain components of the MLR calculation as defined by HHS cannot be classified consistently under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. While considered benefit expense or a reduction of premium revenue by HHS, certain of these costs are classified as other types of expense, such as selling, general and administrative expense or income tax expense, in our GAAP basis financial statements. Accordingly, the benefit expense ratio determined using our consolidated GAAP operating results is not comparable to the MLR calculated under HHS regulations. D. Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D plans that do not meet this threshold have to pay an MLR rebate. If a plan s MLR is below 85% for three consecutive years beginning with 2014, enrollment is restricted. A Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D plan contract will be terminated if the plan s MLR is below 85% for five consecutive years. contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, see Part I, Item 1 Business - Regulation and Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors. Other Significant Items or Transactions Scripts to IngenioRx on January 1, 2020. Notwithstanding our termination of the ESI PBM Agreement, the litigation between us and Express Scripts regarding the ESI PBM Agreement continues. In March 2016, we filed a lawsuit against Express Scripts seeking to recover damages for pharmacy pricing that is higher than competitive benchmark pricing and damages related to operational breaches. Express Scripts filed an answer to the lawsuit disputing our contractual claims and alleging various defenses and counterclaims. For additional information regarding this lawsuit, see Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Express Scripts, Inc. Pharmacy Benefit Management Litigation, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. entities, or collectively, America s 1st Choice, a Medicare Advantage organization that offers HMO products, including Chronic Special Needs Plans and Dual- Eligible Special Needs Plans under its Freedom Health and Optimum HealthCare brands in Florida and its America s 1st Choice of South Carolina brand in South Carolina. At the time of acquisition, through its Medicare Advantage Plans, America s 1st Choice served approximately one hundred and thirty-five thousand members in 25 Florida and 3 South Carolina counties. This acquisition aligned with our plans for continued growth in the Medicare Advantage and Special Needs populations. the state of Florida through its Medicare Advantage plans, and which received a The annual HIP Fee is allocated to health insurers based on the ratio of the amount of an insurer s net premium revenues written during the preceding calendar As a result of the ACA, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, issued Medical Loss Ratio, or MLR, regulations that require us to meet The ACA also imposed a separate minimum MLR threshold of 85% for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, or Medicare Part For additional discussion regarding regulatory trends and uncertainties, and risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those In January 2019, we exercised our contractual right to terminate the ESI PBM Agreement, and we completed the transition of our members from Express In February 2018, we completed our acquisition of Freedom Health, Inc., Optimum HealthCare, Inc., America s 1st Choice of South Carolina, Inc. and related In December 2017, we acquired HealthSun Health Plans, Inc., or HealthSun, which at the time of acquisition served approximately forty thousand members in five-star rating from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. This acquisition aligned with our plans for continued growth in the Medicare Advantage and dual-eligible populations. Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Cigna have commenced litigation against the other seeking various actions and damages, including Cigna s damage claim for a 1,850 termination fee pursuant to the terms of the Cigna Merger Agreement. For additional information about the ongoing litigation related to the Cigna Merger Agreement, see Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Cigna Corporation Merger Litigation, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. our business operations include our Board of Directors declarations of dividends on our common stock, repurchases of our common stock, and debt repurchases and new debt issuances (2019 and prior). For additional information regarding these transactions, see Note 12, Debt and Note 14, Capital Stock, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Selected Operating Performance insured businesses. increase in operating revenue was primarily from higher premiums, and, to a lesser extent, increased administrative fees and other revenue. income was due to higher operating results in both our Commercial & Specialty Business and Government Business segments, in part due to the benefits realized from the launch of IngenioRx in 2019, net realized gains on financial instruments and lower income tax expense. December 31, 2018. Our diluted shares for the year ended December 31, 2019 were 260.3, a decrease of 3.9, or 1.5%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase in EPS resulted primarily from the increase in net income in 2019. December 31, 2018 was 3,827, or approximately 1.0 times net income. The increase in operating cash flow was primarily due to the impact of membership growth in our Government Business segment as well as higher net income in 2019. These increases were partially offset by the impact of the timing of working capital changes. in understanding and analyzing our core operating results. We define operating revenue as premium income and administrative fees and other revenue. Operating gain is calculated as total operating revenue less benefit expense, cost of products sold and selling, general and administrative expense. We use these measures as a basis for evaluating segment performance, allocating resources, forecasting future operating periods and setting incentive compensation targets. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for income before income tax expense, net income or EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. For additional details on operating gain, see our Reportable Segments Results of Operations discussion included in this MD&A. For a reconciliation of reportable segment operating revenue to the amounts of total revenue included in the consolidated statements of income and a reconciliation of reportable segment operating gain to income before income tax expense, see Note 19, Segment Information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For additional information related to the acquisitions of America s 1st Choice and HealthSun, see Note 3, Business Acquisitions, of the Notes to In May 2017, we announced that we were terminating the Agreement and Plan of Merger, or Cigna Merger Agreement, between us and Cigna. Both we and Other significant transactions in recent years that have impacted or will impact our capital structure or that have influenced or will influence how we conduct During the year ended December 31, 2019, total medical membership increased by 1.1, or 2.7%, and this increase was driven primarily by growth in our fully- Operating revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019 was 103,141, an increase of 11,800, or 12.9%, from the year ended December 31, 2018. The Net income for the year ended December 31, 2019 was 4,807, an increase of 1,057, or 28.2%, from the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase in net Our fully-diluted earnings per share, or EPS, for the year ended December 31, 2019 were 18.47, an increase of 4.28, or 30.2%, from the year ended Operating cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2019 was 6,061, or approximately 1.3 times net income. Operating cash flow for the year ended Our results of operations discussed throughout this MD&A are determined in accordance with GAAP. We also calculate operating gain to further aid investors strategy is designed to enable us to take advantage of additional economies of scale, as well as providing us access to new and evolving technologies and products. In addition, we believe geographic and product diversity reduces our exposure to local or regional regulatory, economic and competitive pressures and provides us with increased opportunities for growth. In 2019, we continued growing our government-sponsored business and modestly increased our participation in the Individual ACA-compliant market. In all other markets, we intend to maintain our position by delivering excellent service, offering competitively priced products, providing access to high-quality provider networks and effectively capitalizing on the brand strength of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks. Membership Federal Employees Health Benefits, or FEHB, Program. BCBS-branded business generally refers to members in our service areas licensed by the BCBSA. Non- BCBS-branded business refers to members in our non-BCBS-branded Amerigroup, Freedom Health, HealthSun, Optimum HealthCare and Simply Healthcare plans, as well as HealthLink and UniCare members. In addition to the above medical membership, we also serve customers who purchase one or more of our other products or services that are often ancillary to our health business. We intend to expand through a combination of organic growth, strategic acquisitions and efficient use of capital in both existing and new markets. Our growth Our medical membership includes seven different customer types: Local Group, Individual, National Accounts, BlueCard , Medicare, Medicaid and our Local Group consists of those employer customers with less than 5% of eligible employees located outside of the headquarter state, as well as customers with more than 5% of eligible employees located outside of the headquarter state with up to 5,000 eligible employees. In addition, Local Group includes UniCare members. Local Group accounts are generally sold through brokers or consultants who work with industry specialists from our in-house sales force and are offered both on and off the public exchanges. Local Group insurance premiums may be based on claims incurred by the group or sold on a self-insured basis. The customer s buying decision is typically based upon the size and breadth of our networks, customer service, the quality of our medical management services, the administrative cost included in our quoted price, our financial stability, our reputation and our ability to effectively service large complex accounts. Local Group accounted for 38.2%, 39.4% and 39.4% of our medical members at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Individual consists of individual customers under age 65 and their covered dependents. Individual policies are generally sold through independent agents and brokers, retail partnerships, our in-house sales force or via the exchanges. Individual business is sold on a fully-insured basis. We offer on-exchange products through public exchanges and off-exchange products. Federal premium subsidies are available only for certain public exchange Individual products. Unsubsidized Individual customers are generally more sensitive to product pricing and, to a lesser extent, the configuration of the network and the efficiency of administration. Customer turnover is generally higher with Individual as compared to Local Group. Individual business accounted for 1.7%, 1.6% and 3.9% of our medical members at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. National Accounts generally consist of multi-state employer groups primarily headquartered in an Anthem service area with at least 5% of the eligible employees located outside of the headquarter state and with more than 5,000 eligible employees. Some exceptions are allowed based on broker and consultant relationships. Service area is defined as the geographic area in which we are licensed to sell BCBS products. National Accounts are generally sold through independent brokers or consultants retained by the customer working with our in-house sales force. We believe we have an advantage when competing for very large National Accounts due to the size and breadth of our networks and our ability to access the national provider networks of BCBS companies at their competitive local market rates. National Accounts represented 18.5%, 19.0% and 18.5% of our medical members at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. BlueCard host customers represent enrollees of Blue Cross and or Blue Shield plans not owned by Anthem who receive healthcare services in our BCBSA licensed markets. BlueCard membership consists of estimated host members using the national BlueCard program. Host members are generally members who reside in or travel to a state in which an Anthem subsidiary is the Blue Cross and or Blue Shield licensee and who are covered under an employer-sponsored health plan issued by a non-Anthem controlled BCBSA licensee (i.e., the home plan ). We perform certain administrative functions for BlueCard members, for which we receive administrative fees from the BlueCard members home plans. Other administrative functions, including maintenance of enrollment information and customer service, are performed by the home plan. Host members are computed using, among other things, the product contract. Our two principal funding arrangement categories are fully-insured and self-funded. Fully-insured products are products in which we indemnify our policyholders against costs for health benefits. Self-funded products are offered to customers, generally larger employers, who elect to retain most or all of the financial risk associated with their employees healthcare costs. Some self-funded customers choose to purchase stop loss coverage to limit their retained risk. Medicare customers are Medicare-eligible individual members age 65 and over who have enrolled in Medicare Supplement plans Medicare Advantage, including Special Needs Plans or SNPs, also known as Medicare Advantage SNPs Medicare Part D and dual-eligible programs through Medicare- Medicaid Plans, or MMPs. Medicare Supplement plans typically pay the difference between healthcare costs incurred by a beneficiary and amounts paid by Medicare. Medicare Advantage plans provide Medicare beneficiaries with a managed care alternative to traditional Medicare and often include a Medicare Part D benefit. In addition, our Medicare Advantage SNPs provide tailored benefits to special needs individuals who are institutionalized or have severe or disabling chronic conditions and to dual-eligible customers, who are low-income seniors and persons under age 65 with disabilities. Medicare Advantage SNPs are coordinated care plans specifically designed to provide targeted care, covering all the health care services considered medically necessary for members and often providing professional care coordination services, with personal guidance and programs that help members maintain their health. Medicare Advantage membership also includes Employer Group Medicare Advantage members who are related to National Accounts or retired members of Local Group accounts who have selected a Medicare Advantage product. Medicare Part D offers a prescription drug plan to Medicare and MMP beneficiaries. MMP, which was established as a result of the passage of the ACA, is a demonstration program focused on serving members who are dually eligible for Medicaid and Medicare. Medicare Supplement and Medicare Advantage products are marketed in the same manner, primarily through independent agents and brokers. Medicare business accounted for 5.2%, 4.6% and 3.9% of our medical members at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Medicaid membership represents eligible members who receive healthcare benefits through publicly funded healthcare programs, including Medicaid, ACA-related Medicaid expansion programs, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, programs for seniors and people with disabilities, Children s Health Insurance Programs, and specialty programs such as those focused on long-term services and support, HIV AIDS, foster care, behavioral health and or substance abuse disorders, and intellectual disabilities or developmental disabilities, among others. Total Medicaid program business accounted for 17.7%, 16.8% and 16.1% of our medical members at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. FEHB members consist of United States government employees and their dependents within our geographic markets through our participation in the national contract between the BCBSA and the U.S. Office of Personnel Management. FEHB business accounted for 3.9% of our medical members at each of December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. In addition to reporting our medical membership by customer type, we report by funding arrangement according to the level of risk that we assume in the average number of BlueCard claims received per month. BlueCard host membership accounted for 14.8%, 14.6% and 14.2% of our medical members at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 2017. Also included below is other membership by product. The medical membership and other membership presented are unaudited and in certain instances include estimates of the number of members represented by each contract at the end of the period. December 31, 2019 Compared to December 31, 2018 Medical Membership Fully-insured membership increased primarily due to growth in our Medicaid and Medicare businesses. Self-funded medical membership increased primarily due to higher activity from BlueCard membership, partially offset by the decrease in our Large Group self-funded membership, which declined as a result of competitive pressures. Medicaid membership increased primarily due to expansions in new and existing markets, partially offset by the membership decrease resulting from the loss of a contract. Medicare membership increased primarily due to (In thousands) 2019 2018 2017 Change % Change Change % Change Medical Membership Customer Type Total Medical Membership by Customer Type 41,000 39,938 40,299 1,062 2.7 % (361) (0.9)% Funding Arrangement Total Medical Membership by Funding Arrangement 41,000 39,938 40,299 1,062 2.7 % (361) (0.9)% Reportable Segment Total Medical Membership by Reportable Segment 41,000 39,938 40,299 1,062 2.7 % (361) (0.9)% Other Membership Life and Disability Members 5,259 4,795 4,700 464 9.7 % 95 2.0 % Dental Members 5,962 5,807 5,864 155 2.7 % (57) (1.0)% Dental Administration Members 5,516 5,327 5,342 189 3.5 % (15) (0.3)% Vision Members 7,261 6,946 6,867 315 4.5 % 79 1.2 % Medicare Part D Standalone Members 283 309 318 (26) (8.4)% (9) (2.8)%  The following table presents our medical membership by customer type, funding arrangement and reportable segment as of December 31, 2019, 2018 and Total medical membership increased across our reportable business segments, and the increase was driven primarily by growth in our fully-insured businesses. Local Group 15,682 15,733 15,888 (51) (0.3)% (155) (1.0)% Individual 684 655 1,588 29 4.4 % (933) (58.8)% National: Total National 13,656 13,426 13,196 230 1.7 % 230 1.7 % Medicare: Total Medicare 2,119 1,852 1,569 267 14.4 % 283 18.0 % Medicaid 7,265 6,716 6,496 549 8.2 % 220 3.4 % FEHB 1,594 1,556 1,562 38 2.4 % (6) (0.4)% Self-Funded 25,418 25,287 24,862 131 0.5 % 425 1.7 % Fully-Insured 15,582 14,651 15,437 931 6.4 % (786) (5.1)% Commercial & Specialty Business 30,022 29,814 30,672 208 0.7 % (858) (2.8)% Government Business 10,978 10,124 9,627 854 8.4 % 497 5.2 % December 31 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 BlueCard 6,060 5,838 5,733 222 3.8 % 105 1.8 % National Accounts 7,596 7,588 7,463 8 0.1 % 125 1.7 % Medicare Advantage 1,214 1,006 746 208 20.7 % 260 34.9 % Medicare Supplement 905 846 823 59 7.0 % 23 2.8 % higher sales during open enrollment exceeding lapses. BlueCard membership increased due to higher activity by members of other BCBSA plans who reside in or travel to our licensed areas. Other Membership ancillary to our health business. We have experienced growth in our life and disability and dental memberships primarily due to higher sales in our Large Group business. Vision membership increased primarily due to higher sales in our Medicare Advantage plans and Large Group business. Dental administration membership increased primarily due to growth in our FEHB program. Growth in our other membership can be impacted by changes in our medical membership, as our medical members often purchase our other products that are Consolidated Results of Operations NM Not meaningful. 1 Includes interest expense, amortization of other intangible assets and loss on extinguishment of debt. 2 Benefit expense ratio represents benefit expense as a percentage of premium revenue. Premiums for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 were 94,173, 85,421 and 83,648, respectively. Premiums are included in total operating revenue presented above. 3 bp basis point one hundred basis points 1%. 4 Selling, general and administrative expense ratio represents selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of total operating revenue. Year Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2018 higher premiums were largely due to Medicaid expansions in new and existing markets and membership growth in our Medicare business. The increase in premiums was further attributable to rate increases across our businesses designed to cover overall cost trends. These increases in premiums were partially offset by the impact of the HIP Fee suspension for 2019. The increase in administrative fees and other revenue was primarily driven by IngenioRx, our PBM, which began its operations during the second quarter of 2019. Change Years Ended December 31 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 2019 2018 2017 % % Total operating revenue 103,141 91,341 89,061 11,800 12.9 % 2,280 2.6 % Net investment income 1,005 970 867 35 3.6 % 103 11.9 % Net realized gains (losses) on financial instruments 114 (180) 145 294 163.3 % (325) (224.1)% Other-than-temporary impairment losses Total revenues 104,213 92,105 90,040 12,108 13.1 % 2,065 2.3 % Benefit expense 81,786 71,895 72,236 9,891 13.8 % (341) (0.5)% Cost of products sold 1,992 1,992 NM Selling, general and administrative expense 13,364 14,020 12,650 (656) (4.7)% 1,370 10.8 % Other expense1 1,086 1,122 1,190 (36) (3.2)% (68) (5.7)% Total expenses 98,228 87,037 86,076 11,191 12.9 % 961 1.1 % Income before income tax expense 5,985 5,068 3,964 917 18.1 % 1,104 27.9 % Income tax expense 1,178 1,318 121 (140) (10.6)% 1,197 989.3 % Net income 4,807 3,750 3,843 1,057 28.2 % (93) (2.4)%  Average diluted shares outstanding 260.3 264.2 267.8 (3.9) (1.5)% (3.6) (1.3)% Diluted net income per share 18.47 14.19 14.35 4.28 30.2 % (0.16) (1.1)% Effective tax rate 19.7% 26.0% 3.1% (630)bp3 2,290bp3 Benefit expense ratio2 86.8% 84.2% 86.4% 260bp3 (220)bp3 Selling, general and administrative expense ratio4 13.0% 15.3% 14.2% (230)bp3 110bp3 Income before income tax expense as a percentage Net income as a percentage of total revenues 4.6% 4.1% 4.3% 50bp3 (20)bp3  recognized in income (47) (26) (33) (21) (80.8)% 7 21.2 % of total revenues 5.7% 5.5% 4.4% 20bp3 110bp3 Our consolidated summarized results of operations and other information for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Certain of the following definitions are also applicable to all other results of operations tables in this discussion: The increase in total operating revenue was primarily from higher premiums, and, to a lesser extent, increased administrative fees and other revenue. The due to a decrease in the net losses recognized for changes in the fair values of our equity securities. prior year reserve development in our Commercial & Specialty business segment during 2019 and margin normalization in our Individual business. second quarter of 2019, so there was no cost of products sold recognized in 2018. increase in spend to support growth in our businesses. Reportable Segments Results of Operations Other. Operating gain is calculated as total operating revenue less benefit expense, cost of products sold and selling, general and administrative expense. It does not include net investment income, net realized gains (losses) on financial instruments, other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income, interest expense, amortization of other intangible assets, loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt or income taxes, as these items are managed in a corporate shared service environment and are not the responsibility of operating segment management. gain divided by operating revenue. Our definitions of operating gain and operating margin may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. For additional information, see Note 19, Segment Information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We recognized net realized gains on financial instruments in 2019 compared to net realized losses on financial instruments in 2018. This change was primarily Benefit expense increased primarily due to membership growth across our reportable business segments and higher medical cost experience in our Medicaid Our benefit expense ratio increased largely due to the loss of revenue associated with the HIP Fee suspension for 2019, and, to a lesser extent, less favorable Cost of products sold reflects the cost of pharmaceuticals dispensed by IngenioRx for our self-funded customers. IngenioRx began operations during the Selling, general and administrative expense decreased primarily due to the suspension of the HIP Fee for 2019. This decrease was partially offset by a net Our selling, general and administrative expense ratio decreased due to the growth in total operating revenue and the suspension of the HIP Fee for 2019. Our effective tax rate decreased primarily due to the suspension of the non-tax deductible HIP Fee for 2019. Our net income as a percentage of total revenue increased as a result of all factors discussed above. We use operating gain to evaluate the performance of our reportable segments, which are Commercial & Specialty Business, Government Business, and The discussion of segment results presented below are based on operating gain, as described above, and operating margin, which is calculated as operating NM Not meaningful. 1 bp basis point one hundred basis points 1%. Year Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2018 Commercial & Specialty Business revenue was higher as a result of rate increases in our Local Group business designed to cover overall cost trends and membership increases in our fully-insured businesses. These increases in premium revenue were partially offset by the impact of the HIP Fee suspension for 2019. The increase in administrative fees and other revenue was due to higher penetration of value-added services for self-funded members in our Large Group and National Accounts businesses. penetration of value-added services and integrated health offerings. These increases were partially offset by less favorable prior year reserve development during 2019 and margin normalization in our Individual business. Government Business service populations, and membership growth in our Medicare business. The increase in premium revenue was further attributable to rate increases designed to cover overall cost trends in our Medicare and Medicaid businesses as well as increased reimbursed benefit utilization in our Federal Health Products & Services business. These increases were partially offset by the impact of the HIP Fee suspension for 2019. business. This increase was partially offset by the impact of the HIP Fee suspension for 2019 and an increase in selling, general and administrative spend to support growth in our businesses. Change Years Ended December 31 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 2019 2018 2017 % % Operating Revenue Total operating revenue 103,141 91,341 89,061 11,800 12.9 % 2,280 2.6 %  Operating Gain (Loss) Commercial & Specialty Business 4,046 3,600 2,847 446 12.4 % 753 26.4 % Government Business 2,054 1,928 1,442 126 6.5 % 486 33.7 % Other (101) (102) (114) 1 (1.0)% 12 (10.5)%  Operating Margin Commercial & Specialty Business 10.8% 10.1% 7.1% 70bp1 300bp1 Government Business 3.3% 3.5% 3.0% (20)bp1 50bp1  Commercial & Specialty Business 37,421 35,782 40,363 1,639 4.6 % (4,581) (11.3)% Government Business 62,632 55,348 48,587 7,284 13.2 % 6,761 13.9 % Other 7,695 1,519 127 6,176 406.6 % 1,392 NM Eliminations (4,607) (1,308) (16) (3,299) NM (1,292) NM The following table presents a summary of our reportable segment financial information for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017: Operating revenue increased primarily due to higher premium revenue and, to a lesser extent, increased administrative fees and other revenue. Premium The increase in operating gain was primarily driven by the benefits realized in pharmacy cost as a result of the launch of IngenioRx in 2019 and greater Operating revenue increased primarily due to higher premium revenue as a result of Medicaid expansions in new and existing markets, including specialized The increase in operating gain was primarily driven by the impact of premium increases due to rate adjustments and membership growth in our Medicaid our pharmacy services provided by IngenioRx, which commenced operations and began transitioning existing clients from Express Scripts to IngenioRx in the second quarter of 2019. generated from IngenioRx and DBG affiliated activity have been included in our Commercial & Specialty Business and Government Business based upon their utilization of services from IngenioRx and DBG. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes and within this MD&A. We consider our most important accounting policies that require significant estimates and management judgment to be those policies with respect to liabilities for medical claims payable, income taxes, goodwill and other intangible assets, investments and retirement benefits, which are discussed below. Our other significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 2, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. historical experience, evaluation of current trends, information from third-party professionals and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the known facts and circumstances. Estimates can require a significant amount of judgment and a different set of assumptions could result in material changes to our reported results. Medical Claims Payable liability was 8,842 and represented 19% of our total consolidated liabilities. We record this liability and the corresponding benefit expense for incurred but not paid claims, including the estimated costs of processing such claims. Incurred but not paid claims include (1) an estimate for claims that are incurred but not reported, as well as claims reported to us but not yet processed through our systems, which approximated 98%, or 8,633, of our total medical claims liability as of December 31, 2019 and (2) claims reported to us and processed through our systems but not yet paid, which approximated 2%, or 209, of the total medical claims payable as of December 31, 2019. The level of claims payable processed through our systems but not yet paid may fluctuate from one period-end to the next, from approximately 1% to 5% of our total medical claims liability, due to timing of when claim payments are made. actuarial methods that are commonly used by health insurance actuaries and meet Actuarial Standards of Practice. Actuarial Standards of Practice require that the claim liabilities be appropriate under moderately adverse circumstances. We determine the amount of the liability for incurred but not paid claims by following a detailed actuarial process that uses both historical claim payment patterns as well as emerging medical cost trends to project our best estimate of claim liabilities. Under this process, historical paid claims data is formatted into claim triangles, which compare claim incurred dates to the dates of claim payments. This information is analyzed to create completion factors that represent the average percentage of total incurred claims that have been paid through a given date after being incurred. Completion factors are applied to claims paid through the period-end date to estimate the ultimate claim expense incurred for the period. Actuarial estimates of incurred but not paid claim liabilities are then determined by subtracting the actual paid claims from the estimate of the ultimate incurred claims. low. This makes the completion factor methodology less reliable for such months. Therefore, incurred claims for recent months are not projected from historical completion and payment patterns rather, they are projected by estimating the claims expense for those months based on recent claims expense levels and healthcare trend levels, or trend factors. Operating revenue increased due to higher administrative fees and other revenue from IngenioRx and DBG. The increase was primarily driven by growth in Operating loss remained steady, as there were no substantial changes in unallocated corporate expenses. For our segment reporting, operating gains (losses) We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. Application of GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. In general, our estimates are based on The most subjective accounting estimate in our consolidated financial statements is our liability for medical claims payable. At December 31, 2019, this Liabilities for both claims incurred but not reported and reported but not yet processed through our systems are determined in the aggregate, employing For the most recent incurred months (typically the most recent two months), the percentage of claims paid for claims incurred in those months is generally These adjustments are made by our actuaries based on their knowledge and their estimate of emerging impacts to benefit costs and payment speed. Circumstances to be considered in developing our best estimate of reserves include changes in utilization levels, unit costs, mix of business, benefit plan designs, provider reimbursement levels, processing system conversions and changes, claim inventory levels, claim processing patterns, claim submission patterns and operational changes resulting from business combinations. A comparison of prior period liabilities to re-estimated claim liabilities based on subsequent claims development is also considered in making the liability determination. In our comparison to prior periods, the methods and assumptions are not changed as reserves are recalculated rather, the availability of additional paid claims information drives changes in the re-estimate of the unpaid claim liability. To the extent appropriate, changes in such development are recorded as a change to current period benefit expense. the claims liability and benefit expense based on subsequent paid claims activity. If it is determined that our assumptions regarding cost trends and utilization are materially different than actual results, our income statement and financial position could be impacted in future periods. Adjustments of prior year estimates may result in additional benefit expense or a reduction of benefit expense in the period an adjustment is made. Further, due to the considerable variability of healthcare costs, adjustments to claim liabilities occur each period and are sometimes significant as compared to the net income recorded in that period. Prior period development is recognized immediately upon the actuary s judgment that a portion of the prior period liability is no longer needed or that an additional liability should have been accrued. That determination is made when sufficient information is available to ascertain that the re-estimate of the liability is reasonable. significant impact on our incurred but not paid claims liability as of December 31, 2019 were the completion and trend factors. As discussed above, these two key assumptions can be influenced by utilization levels, unit costs, mix of business, benefit plan designs, provider reimbursement levels, processing system conversions and changes, claim inventory levels, claim processing patterns, claim submission patterns and operational changes resulting from business combinations. factors have the most significant impact. As previously discussed, completion factors tend to be less reliable for the most recent months and therefore are not specifically utilized for months one and two. In our analysis for the claim liabilities at December 31, 2019, the variability in months three to five was estimated to be between 40 and 90 basis points, while months six through twelve have much lower estimated variability ranging from 0 to 30 basis points. December 31, 2019 incurred but not paid claims liability, depending on the completion factors chosen. It is important to note that the completion factor methodology inherently assumes that historical completion rates will be reflective of the current period. However, it is possible that the actual completion rates for the current period will develop differently from historical patterns and therefore could fall outside the possible variations described herein. the period ended December 31, 2019, there was a 320 basis point differential in the high and low trend factors assuming moderately adverse experience. This range of trend factors would imply variability of 5%, or approximately 468, in the incurred but not paid claims liability, depending upon the trend factors used. Because historical trend factors are often not representative of current claim trends, the trend experience for the most recent six to nine months, plus knowledge of recent events likely affecting current trends, have been taken into consideration in establishing the incurred but not paid claims liability at December 31, 2019. for a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balance for medical claims payable for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. Components of the total incurred claims for each year include amounts accrued for current year estimated claims expense as well as adjustments to prior year estimated accruals. In Note 11, Medical Claims Payable, the line labeled Net incurred medical claims: Prior years redundancies accounts for those Because the reserve methodology is based upon historical information, it must be adjusted for known or suspected operational and environmental changes. We regularly review and set assumptions regarding cost trends and utilization when initially establishing claim liabilities. We continually monitor and adjust While there are many factors that are used as a part of the estimation of our medical claims payable liability, the two key assumptions having the most There is variation in the reasonable choice of completion factors by duration for durations of three months through twelve months where the completion The difference in completion factor assumptions, assuming moderately adverse experience, results in variability of 3%, or approximately 241, in the The other major assumption used in the establishment of the December 31, 2019 incurred but not paid claim liability was the trend factors. In our analysis for See Note 11, Medical Claims Payable, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, adjustments made to prior year estimates. The impact of any reduction of Net incurred medical claims: Prior years redundancies may be offset as we establish the estimate of Net incurred medical claims: Current year. Our reserving practice is to consistently recognize the actuarial best estimate of our ultimate liability for our claims. When we recognize a release of the redundancy, we disclose the amount that is not in the ordinary course of business, if material. 2017. This ratio serves as an indicator of claims processing speed whereby claims were processed slightly slower during 2019 than in 2018 and close to the same speed as in 2017. in the current year in order to demonstrate the development of the prior year reserves. For the year ended December 31, 2019, this metric was 7.4%, largely driven by favorable trend factor development at the end of 2018 as well as favorable completion factor development from 2018. For the year ended December 31, 2018, this metric was 13.7%, largely driven by favorable trend factor development at the end of 2017 as well as favorable completion factor development from 2017. For the year ended December 31, 2017, this metric was 18.9%, largely driven by favorable trend factor development at the end of 2016. redundancy included in the preceding year calculation of current year net incurred medical claims. We believe this calculation supports the reasonableness of our prior year estimate of incurred medical claims and the consistency in our methodology. For the year ended December 31, 2019, this metric was 0.7%, which was calculated using the redundancy of 500. This metric was 1.3% for 2018 and 1.8% for 2017. These metrics demonstrate a generally consistent level of reserve conservatism. Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for each of 2018 and 2017 and the incurred claims for such years had it been determined retrospectively (computed as the difference between net incurred medical claims current year for the year shown and net incurred medical claims prior years redundancies for the immediately following year): from the provider), the variance to total net incurred medical claims, as reported above, is used to assess the reasonableness of our estimate of ultimate incurred medical claims for a given calendar year with the benefit of one year of experience. We expect that substantially all of the development of the 2019 estimate of medical claims payable will be known during 2020. the change in the prior year redundancy reported for 2019 as compared to 2018 was greater than the change in the prior year redundancy reported for 2018 as compared to 2017. Income Taxes deferred tax liabilities. Such deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities represent the tax effect of temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting measured at tax rates enacted at the time the deferred tax asset or liability is recorded. A valuation allowance must be established for deferred tax assets if it is more 2018 2017 Total net incurred medical claims, as reported 68,651 69,244 Retrospective basis, as described above 69,081 69,447 Variance (430) (203) Variance to total net incurred medical claims, as reported (0.6)% (0.3)% The ratio of current year medical claims paid as a percent of current year net medical claims incurred was 89.3% for 2019, 90.2% for 2018 and 89.4% for We calculate the percentage of prior year redundancies in the current year as a percent of prior year net incurred claims payable less prior year redundancies We calculate the percentage of prior year redundancies in the current year as a percent of prior year net incurred medical claims to indicate the percentage of The following table shows the variance between total net incurred medical claims as reported in Note 11, Medical Claims Payable, of the Notes to Given that our business is primarily short tailed (which means that medical claims are generally paid within twelve months of the member receiving service The 2018 variance to total net incurred medical claims, as reported of (0.6)% was higher than the 2017 percentage of (0.3)%. This was driven by the fact that We account for income taxes in accordance with FASB guidance, which requires, among other things, the separate recognition of deferred tax assets and Years Ended December 31 likely than not that all or a portion may be unrealized. Our judgment is required in determining an appropriate valuation allowance. timing and amount of deductions that we have taken on our tax returns. In evaluating any additional tax liability associated with various positions taken in our tax return filings, we record additional liabilities for potential adverse tax outcomes. Based on our evaluation of our tax positions, we believe we have appropriately accrued for uncertain tax benefits, as required by the applicable guidance. To the extent we prevail in matters we have accrued for, our future effective tax rate would be reduced and net income would increase. If we are required to pay more than accrued, our future effective tax rate would increase and net income would decrease. Our effective tax rate and net income in any given future period could be materially impacted. assessments. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law, and we intend to defend our positions vigorously through the federal, state and local appeals processes. We believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters. Accordingly, although their ultimate resolution may require additional tax payments, we do not anticipate any material impact on our results of operations or financial condition from these matters. on Form 10-K. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets represented 37.7% of our total consolidated assets and 92.0% of our consolidated shareholders equity at December 31, 2019. required to be recognized and reported separately from goodwill. Under the guidance, goodwill and other intangible assets (with indefinite lives) are not amortized but are tested for impairment at least annually. Furthermore, goodwill and other intangible assets are allocated to reporting units for purposes of the annual impairment test. Our impairment tests require us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the estimated fair value of our reporting units, which include goodwill and other intangible assets. In addition, certain other intangible assets with indefinite lives, such as trademarks, are also tested separately. tests involve the use of estimates related to the fair value of goodwill at the reporting unit level and other intangible assets with indefinite lives, and require a significant degree of management judgment and the use of subjective assumptions. Certain interim impairment tests are also performed when potential impairment indicators exist or changes in our business or other triggering events occur. We have the option of first performing a qualitative assessment for each reporting unit to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, which is an indication that our goodwill may be impaired. These qualitative impairment tests include assessing events and factors that could affect the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets. Our procedures include assessing our financial performance, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, various asset specific At each financial reporting date, we assess the adequacy of the valuation allowance by evaluating each of our deferred tax assets based on the following: the types of temporary differences that created the deferred tax asset the amount of taxes paid in prior periods and available for a carry-back claim the tax rate at which the deferred tax assets will likely be utilized in the future the forecasted future taxable income, and therefore, likely future deduction of the deferred tax item and any significant other issues impacting the likely realization of the benefit of the temporary differences. We, like other companies, frequently face challenges from tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the In the ordinary course of business, we are regularly audited by federal and other tax authorities, and from time to time, these audits result in proposed For additional information, see Note 7, Income Taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report Our consolidated goodwill at December 31, 2019 was 20,500 and other intangible assets were 8,674. The sum of goodwill and other intangible assets We follow FASB guidance for business combinations and goodwill and other intangible assets, which specifies the types of acquired intangible assets that are We complete our annual impairment tests of existing goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives during the fourth quarter of each year. These factors and entity specific events. If we determine that a reporting unit s goodwill may be impaired after utilizing these qualitative impairment analysis procedures, we are required to perform a quantitative impairment test. indefinite lived intangible assets. Use of the projected income and market valuation approaches for our goodwill impairment test reflects our view that both valuation methodologies provide a reasonable estimate of fair value. The projected income approach is developed using assumptions about future revenue, expenses and net income derived from our internal planning process. These estimated future cash flows are then discounted. Our assumed discount rate is based on our industry s weighted-average cost of capital. Market valuations are based on observed multiples of certain measures including revenue earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and book value of invested capital (debt and equity) and include market comparisons to publicly traded companies in our industry. fair values of our reporting units were substantially in excess of the carrying values as of December 31, 2019. Additionally, we do not believe that the estimated fair values of our reporting units are at risk of becoming impaired in the next twelve months. significant impairment indicators are noted relative to other intangible assets subject to amortization, we may be required to record impairment losses against future income. Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Investments December 31, 2019. We classify fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio as available-for-sale or trading and report those securities at fair value. Certain fixed maturity securities are available to support current operations and, accordingly, we classify such investments as current assets without regard to their contractual maturity. Investments used to satisfy contractual, regulatory or other requirements are classified as long-term, without regard to contractual maturity. requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis, using both qualitative and quantitative factors, to determine whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary. Such factors considered include the extent to which a security s market value has been less than its cost, the reasons for the decline in value (i.e., credit event compared to liquidity, general credit spread widening, currency exchange rate or interest rate factors), financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, including the credit ratings and changes in the credit ratings of the issuer, recommendations of investment advisors, and forecasts of economic, market or industry trends. disclosures for OTTIs. If a fixed maturity security is in an unrealized loss position and we have the intent to sell the fixed maturity security, or it is more likely than not that we will have to sell the fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, the decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and is presented within the other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in our consolidated statements of income. For impaired fixed maturity securities that we do not intend to sell or it is more likely than not that we will not have to sell such securities, but we expect that we will not fully recover the amortized cost basis, the credit component of the OTTI is presented within the other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in our consolidated statements of income and the non-credit component of the OTTI is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss in our consolidated balance sheets. Furthermore, unrealized losses entirely caused by non-credit related factors related to fixed maturity securities for which we expect to fully recover the amortized cost basis continue to be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss. the fixed maturity security. The net present value is calculated by discounting our best estimate of projected future cash flows at the effective interest rate implicit in the fixed maturity security at the date of Our quantitative impairment test utilizes the projected income and market valuation approaches for goodwill and the projected income approach for our We did not incur any impairment losses as a result of our 2019 annual impairment tests, as it was determined that it is more likely than not that the estimated If estimated fair values are less than the carrying values of goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives in future annual impairment tests, or if For additional information, see Note 3, Business Acquisitions and Note 9, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Current and long-term marketable investment securities were 21,220 at December 31, 2019 and represented 27.4% of our total consolidated assets at We review fixed maturity investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. This review is subjective and FASB other-than-temporary impairment, or OTTI, guidance applies to fixed maturity securities and provides guidance on the recognition, presentation of, and The credit component of an OTTI is determined primarily by comparing the net present value of projected future cash flows with the amortized cost basis of acquisition. For mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, cash flow estimates are based on assumptions regarding the underlying collateral, including prepayment speeds, vintage, type of underlying asset, geographic concentrations, default rates, recoveries and changes in value. For all other securities, cash flow estimates are driven by assumptions regarding probability of default, including changes in credit ratings and estimates regarding timing and amount of recoveries associated with a default. we have adequately reviewed our investment securities for impairment and that our investment securities are carried at fair value. However, over time, the economic and market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in OTTI losses on investments being charged against future income. Given the uncertainty of future market conditions, as well as the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and material OTTI losses on investments may be recorded in future periods. 2019. These long-term investments consisted primarily of certain other equity investments, the cash surrender value of corporate-owned life insurance policies and real estate. Due to their less liquid nature, these investments are classified as long-term. market valuations. We manage market risks through our investment policy, which establishes credit quality limits and limits on investments in individual issuers. Ineffective management of these risks could have an impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. Our investment portfolio includes fixed maturity securities with a fair value of 20,181 at December 31, 2019. The weighted-average credit rating of these securities was A as of December 31, 2019. Included in this balance are investments in fixed maturity securities of states, municipalities and political subdivisions of 900 that are guaranteed by third parties. With the exception of four securities with a fair value of 12, these securities are all investment-grade and carry a weighted-average credit rating of A as of December 31, 2019. The securities are guaranteed by a number of different guarantors, and we do not have any material exposure to any single guarantor, neither indirectly through the guarantees, nor directly through investment in the guarantor. Further, due to the high underlying credit rating of the issuers, the weighted- average credit rating of the fixed maturity securities without a guarantee, for which such information is available, was A as of December 31, 2019. party pricing services, which generally use Level I or Level II inputs for the determination of fair value in accordance with FASB guidance for fair value measurements and disclosures. We have controls in place to review the pricing services qualifications and procedures used to determine fair values. In addition, we periodically review the pricing services pricing methodologies, data sources and pricing inputs to ensure the fair values obtained are reasonable. securities, making adjustments through the reporting date based upon available market observable information. For securities not actively traded, the pricing services may use quoted market prices of comparable instruments or discounted cash flow analyses, incorporating inputs that are currently observable in the markets for similar securities. Inputs that are often used in these valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to, broker quotes, benchmark yields, credit spreads, default rates and prepayment speeds. As we are responsible for the determination of fair value, we perform analysis on the prices received from the pricing services to determine whether the prices are reasonable estimates of fair value. Our analysis includes procedures such as a review of month-to-month price fluctuations and price comparisons to secondary pricing services. There were no adjustments to quoted market prices obtained from the pricing services during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. internally. Such securities are designated Level III in accordance with FASB guidance. Securities designated Level III at December 31, 2019 totaled 397 and represented approximately 1.7% of our total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Our Level III securities primarily consisted of certain corporate securities and equity securities for which observable inputs were not always available and the fair values of these securities were estimated using inputs including, but not limited to, prepayment speeds, credit spreads, default rates and benchmark yields. We have a committee of accounting and investment associates and management that is responsible for managing the impairment review process. We believe In addition to marketable investment securities, we held additional long-term investments of 4,228, or 5.5% of total consolidated assets, at December 31, Through our investing activities, we are exposed to financial market risks, including those resulting from changes in interest rates and changes in equity Fair values of fixed maturity and equity securities are based on quoted market prices, where available. These fair values are obtained primarily from third- We obtain quoted market prices for each security from the pricing services, which are derived through recently reported trades for identical or similar In certain circumstances, it may not be possible to derive pricing model inputs from observable market activity, and therefore, such inputs are estimated Significant Accounting Policies, Note 4, Investments, and Note 6, Fair Value, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Retirement Benefits benefits, which requires that amounts recognized in financial statements be determined on an actuarial basis. As permitted by the guidance, we calculate the value of plan assets as described below. Further, the difference between our expected rate of return and the actual performance of plan assets, as well as certain changes in pension liabilities, are amortized over future periods. measurement date, we selected a weighted-average long-term rate of return on plan assets of 7.33%. We use a total portfolio return analysis in the development of our assumption. Factors such as past market performance, the long-term relationship between fixed maturity and equity securities, interest rates, inflation and asset allocations are considered in the assumption. The assumption includes an estimate of the additional return expected from active management of the investment portfolio. Peer data and an average of historical returns are also reviewed for appropriateness of the selected assumption. We believe our assumption of future returns is reasonable. However, if we lower our expected long-term return on plan assets, future contributions to the pension plan and pension expense would likely increase. systematic manner over three years, producing the expected return on plan assets that is included in the determination of pension expense. We apply a corridor approach to amortize unrecognized actuarial gains or losses. Under this approach, only accumulated net actuarial gains or losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the fair value of plan assets are amortized over the average remaining service or lifetime of the workforce as a component of pension expense. The net deferral of past asset gains or losses affects the calculated value of plan assets and, ultimately, future pension expense. measurement date. We use the annual spot rate approach for setting our discount rate. Under the spot rate approach, individual spot rates from a full yield curve of published rates are used to discount each plan s cash flows to determine the plan s obligation. At the December 31, 2019 measurement date, the weighted-average discount rate under the annual spot rate approach was 3.11%, compared to 4.15% at the December 31, 2018 measurement date. The net effect of changes in the discount rate, as well as the net effect of other changes in actuarial assumptions and experience, have been deferred and amortized as a component of pension expense in accordance with FASB guidance. securities, investment grade fixed maturity securities and other types of investments across a range of sectors and levels of capitalization to maximize long-term return for a prudent level of risk. In addition to producing a reasonable return, the investment strategy seeks to minimize the volatility in our expense and cash flow. credits added to their accounts, but continue to earn interest on existing account balances. Participants continue to earn years of pension service for vesting purposes. and the expected trend in healthcare costs, to estimate the costs and benefit obligations for our retiree benefits. Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits For additional information, see Part II, Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, and Note 2, Basis of Presentation and We sponsor defined benefit pension plans for some of our employees. These plans are accounted for in accordance with FASB guidance for retirement An important factor in determining our pension expense is the assumption for expected long-term return on plan assets. As of our December 31, 2019 This assumed long-term rate of return on assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets in a The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the end of the year based on our most recent In managing the plan assets, our objective is to be a responsible fiduciary while minimizing financial risk. Plan assets include a diversified mix of equity Effective January 1, 2019, we curtailed the benefits under the Anthem Cash Balance Plan B pension plan. All grandfathered participants no longer have pay We provide most associates with certain medical, vision and dental benefits upon retirement. We use various actuarial assumptions, including a discount rate 2018 measurement rate. We developed this rate using the annual spot rate approach as described above. benefits at our December 31, 2019 measurement date was 7.00% for 2020 with a gradual decline to 4.50% by the year 2028. The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used to measure the expected cost of post-Medicare (those who are currently eligible for Medicare benefits) other benefits at our December 31, 2019 measurement date was 6.00% for 2020 with a gradual decline to 4.50% by the year 2028. These estimated trend rates are subject to change in the future. The healthcare cost trend rate assumption affects the amounts reported. For example, an increase in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point would increase the postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2019 by 23 and would increase service and interest costs by 1. Conversely, a decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point would decrease the postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2019 by 20 and would decrease service and interest costs by 1. in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. New Accounting Pronouncements expected to have, a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or financial statement disclosures, see the Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance and Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted sections of Note 2, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Introduction investment securities, proceeds from borrowings, and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock plans. Cash disbursements result mainly from claims payments, administrative expenses, taxes, purchases of investment securities, interest expense, payments on borrowings, acquisitions, capital expenditures, repurchases of our debt securities and common stock and the payment of cash dividends. Cash outflows fluctuate with the amount and timing of settlement of these transactions. Any future decline in our profitability would likely have an unfavorable impact on our liquidity. financial flexibility and liquidity. We forecast, analyze and monitor our cash flows to enable investment and financing within the overall constraints of our financial strategy. cash flows from operating activities, we generally invest cash that exceeds our near term obligations in longer term marketable fixed maturity securities to improve our overall investment income returns. Our investment strategy is to make investments consistent with insurance statutes and other regulatory requirements, while preserving our asset base. Our investments are generally available-for-sale to meet liquidity and other needs. Our subsidiaries pay out excess capital annually in the form of dividends to their respective parent companies for general corporate use, as permitted by applicable regulations. ratings, contractual restrictions, regulatory requirements and market conditions. The securities and credit markets have in the past experienced higher than normal volatility, although current market conditions are more stable. During recent years, the federal government and various governmental agencies have taken a number of steps to improve liquidity in the financial markets and strengthen the regulation of the financial services market. In addition, At our December 31, 2019 measurement date, the selected discount rate for all plans was 2.93%, compared to a discount rate of 4.04% at the December 31, The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used to measure the expected cost of pre-Medicare (those who are not currently eligible for Medicare benefits) other For additional information regarding our retirement benefits, see Note 10, Retirement Benefits, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included For information regarding new accounting pronouncements that were issued or became effective during the year ended December 31, 2019 that had, or are Our cash receipts result primarily from premiums, administrative fees and other revenue, investment income, proceeds from the sale or maturity of our We manage our cash, investments and capital structure so we are able to meet the short-term and long-term obligations of our business while maintaining A substantial portion of the assets held by our regulated subsidiaries are in the form of cash and cash equivalents and investments. After considering expected The availability of financing in the form of debt or equity is influenced by many factors, including our profitability, operating cash flows, debt levels, debt governments around the world have developed their own plans to provide liquidity and security in the credit markets and to ensure adequate capital in certain financial institutions. and or our two senior revolving credit facilities, which provide for combined credit in the amount of 3,500, to redeem any outstanding commercial paper upon maturity. Additionally, we believe the lenders participating in our credit facilities would be willing and able to provide financing in accordance with their legal obligations. In addition to the senior revolving credit facilities, we estimate that we expect to receive approximately 3,035 of dividends from our subsidiaries during 2020, which also provides further operating and financial flexibility. Liquidity Year Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2018 as higher net income in 2019. These increases in operating cash flow were partially offset by the impact of the timing of working capital changes. received from sales, maturities, calls and redemptions of investments in 2018, a decrease in cash paid for acquisitions, an increase in net proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and short- and long-term debt Years Ended December 31 Change 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 Sources of Cash: Total sources of cash 7,110 7,353 8,837 (243) (1,484) Uses of Cash: Total uses of cash (6,107) (7,026) (9,307) 919 2,281 Effect of foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (2) 4 2 (6) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,003 325 (466) 678 791 We have a 3,500 commercial paper program. Should commercial paper issuance be unavailable, we have the ability to use a combination of cash on hand A summary of our major sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to the impact of membership growth in our Medicaid and Medicare businesses as well Other significant changes in sources and uses of cash year-over-year included an increase in net purchases of investments in 2019 compared to net proceeds Net cash provided by operating activities 6,061 3,827 4,185 2,234 (358) Proceeds from sales, maturities, calls and redemptions of investments, net of Issuance of common stock under Equity Units stock purchase contracts 1,250 (1,250) 1,250 Issuances of commercial paper and short- and long-term debt, net of repayments 608 3,653 608 (3,653) Issuances of common stock under employee stock plans 187 173 225 14 (52) Changes in bank overdrafts 71 (71) Other sources of cash, net 254 174 703 80 (529) Purchases of investments, net of proceeds from sales, maturities, calls and Purchases of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (1,760) (2,080) 1,760 320 Repurchase and retirement of common stock (1,701) (1,685) (1,998) (16) 313 Purchases of property and equipment (1,077) (1,208) (791) 131 (417) Repayments of commercial paper and short- and long-term debt, net of Cash dividends (818) (776) (705) (42) (71) Changes in bank overdrafts (169) (210) 41 (210) Other uses of cash, net (423) (301) (820) (122) 519 purchases 1,929 (1,929) 1,929 redemptions (1,919) (2,913) (1,919) 2,913 issuances (1,086) 1,086 (1,086) in 2019 compared to net repayments in 2018 and cash received from the issuance of common stock under our Equity Units stock purchase contracts in 2018 that did not recur in 2019. Financial Condition securities of 26,157 at December 31, 2019. Since December 31, 2018, total cash, cash equivalents and investments in fixed maturity and equity securities increased by 3,518, primarily due to cash generated from operations and issuances of commercial paper and short- and long-term debt, net of repayments. These increases were partially offset by cash used for repurchases of our common stock, purchases of property and equipment and cash dividends paid to shareholders. paid to their respective parent companies. Certain accounting practices prescribed by insurance regulatory authorities, or statutory accounting practices, differ from GAAP. Changes that occur in statutory accounting practices, if any, could impact our subsidiaries future dividend capacity. In addition, we have agreed to certain undertakings to regulatory authorities, including the requirement to maintain certain capital levels in certain of our subsidiaries. including investment in our businesses, acquisitions, potential future common stock repurchases and dividends to shareholders, repurchases of debt securities and debt and interest payments. for share repurchases. Certain of these Notes may have a call feature that allows us to redeem the Notes at any time at our option and or a put feature that allows a Note holder to redeem the Notes upon the occurrence of both a change in control event and a downgrade of the Notes below an investment grade rating. For more information on our debt, including redemptions and issuances, see Note 12, Debt of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our debt-to-capital ratio is calculated as total debt divided by total debt plus total shareholders equity. Total debt is the sum of short-term borrowings, current portion of long-term debt, and long-term debt, less current portion. We believe our debt-to-capital ratio assists investors and rating agencies in measuring our overall leverage and additional borrowing capacity. In addition, our bank covenants include a maximum debt-to- capital ratio that we cannot and did not exceed. Our debt-to-capital ratio may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Our consolidated debt-to-capital ratio was 39.5% and 40.2% as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We intend to maintain our senior debt investment grade ratings. If our credit ratings are downgraded, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted by limitations on future borrowings and a potential increase in our borrowing costs. Future Sources and Uses of Liquidity equity securities in one or more offerings. Specific information regarding terms and securities being offered will be provided at the time of an offering. Proceeds from future offerings are expected to be used for general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, the repayment of debt, investments in or extensions of credit to our subsidiaries and the financing of possible acquisitions or business expansions. restated the credit agreement for the 5-Year Facility to, among other things, extend the We maintained a strong financial condition and liquidity position, with consolidated cash, cash equivalents and investments in fixed maturity and equity Many of our subsidiaries are subject to various government regulations that restrict the timing and amount of dividends and other distributions that may be At December 31, 2019, we held 2,673 of cash, cash equivalents and investments at the parent company, which are available for general corporate use, Periodically, we access capital markets and issue debt, or Notes, for long-term borrowing purposes, for example, to refinance debt, to finance acquisitions or We calculate our consolidated debt-to-capital ratio, a non-GAAP measure, from the amounts presented on our audited consolidated balance sheets included in Our senior debt is rated A by S&P Global, BBB by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Baa2 by Moody s Investor Service, Inc. and bbb by AM Best Company, Inc. We have a shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission to register an unlimited amount of any combination of debt or We have a senior revolving credit facility, or the 5-Year Facility, with a group of lenders for general corporate purposes. In June 2019, we amended and maturity date from August 2020 to June 2024 and decrease the amount of credit available from 3,500 to 2,500. In June 2019, we also entered into a 364-day senior revolving credit facility, or the 364-Day Facility, with a group of lenders for general corporate purposes, which provides for credit in the amount of 1,000 and matures in June 2020. Our ability to borrow under these credit facilities is subject to compliance with certain covenants. We do not believe the restrictions contained in these covenants materially affect our financial or operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. There were no amounts outstanding under the 5-Year Facility or the 364-Day Facility at December 31, 2019. corporate purposes. The Subsidiary Credit Facilities provide combined credit up to 600. Our ability to borrow under the Subsidiary Credit Facilities is subject to compliance with certain covenants. At December 31, 2019, we had 50 outstanding under the Subsidiary Credit Facilities. amount available under the commercial paper program from 2,500 to 3,500. At December 31, 2019, we had 400 outstanding under our commercial paper program. Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, or collectively, the FHLBs. As a member, we have the ability to obtain short-term cash advances, subject to certain minimum collateral requirements. At December 31, 2019, we had 650 in outstanding short-term borrowings from FHLBs. dividends and other distributions that may be paid. Based upon these requirements, we currently estimate that approximately 3,035 of dividends will be paid to the parent company during 2020. During 2019, we received 3,790 of dividends from our subsidiaries. declaration and payment of any dividends or repurchases of our common stock or debt is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends upon our financial condition, results of operations, future liquidity needs, regulatory and capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. stock. This quarterly dividend is payable on March 27, 2020 to the shareholders of record as of March 16, 2020. 3,792 to repurchase our common stock. and Note 14 Capital Stock Use of Capital Dividends and Stock Repurchase Program of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Through certain subsidiaries, we have entered into multiple 364-day lines of credit, or the Subsidiary Credit Facilities, with separate lenders for general We have an authorized commercial paper program, the proceeds of which may be used for general corporate purposes. In August 2019, we increased the We are a member, through certain subsidiaries, of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati and the Federal As discussed in Financial Condition above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to various government regulations that restrict the timing and amount of We regularly review the appropriate use of capital, including acquisitions, common stock and debt security repurchases and dividends to shareholders. The On January 28, 2020, our Audit Committee declared a quarterly cash dividend to shareholders of 0.95 per share on the outstanding shares of our common Under our Board of Directors authorization, we maintain a common stock repurchase program. As of December 31, 2019, we had Board authorization of For additional information regarding our sources and uses of capital, see Note 4, Investments, Note 5 Derivative Financial Instruments, Note 12 Debt Contractual Obligations and Commitments 1 Includes estimated interest expense. 2 See Note 17, Leases, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3 Represents low income housing tax credits. 4 Primarily consists of reserves for future policy benefits, projected other postretirement benefits, deferred compensation, supplemental executive retirement plan liabilities and certain other miscellaneous long-term obligations. Estimated future payments for funded pension benefits have been excluded from this table, as we had no funding requirements under ERISA at December 31, 2019 as a result of the value of the assets in the plans. 5 Includes estimated payments for future services under contractual arrangements from third-party service contracts. 6 Includes unfunded capital commitments for alternative investments. resolutions with the respective taxing authorities. For further information, see Note 7, Income Taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. and services used in our operations. However, we do not believe these other agreements contain material noncancelable commitments. public or private financing sources will be sufficient for future operations and commitments, and for capital acquisitions and other strategic transactions. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements agreements that will require funding in future periods. We have not transferred assets to an unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to such entity. We do not hold any variable interest in an unconsolidated entity where such entity provides us with financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support. Risk-Based Capital largely based on the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, On-Balance Sheet: Debt1 31,249 3,447 3,653 3,853 20,296 Operating leases, including imputed interest2 795 172 285 203 135 Investment commitments3 28 11 16 1 Other long-term liabilities4 752 9 295 293 155 Off-Balance Sheet: Purchase obligations5 3,531 1,236 630 1,076 589 Operating leases, including imputed interest2 394 13 60 66 255 Investment commitments6 971 287 378 106 200 Total contractual obligations and commitments 37,720 5,175 5,317 5,597 21,631  Our estimated contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: The above table does not contain 172 of gross liabilities for uncertain tax positions and interest for which we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of the In addition to the contractual obligations and commitments discussed above, we have a variety of other contractual agreements related to acquiring materials We believe that funds from future operating cash flows, cash and investments and funds available under our senior revolving credit facilities and or from We do not have any off-balance sheet derivative instruments, guarantee transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements or any indemnification Our regulated subsidiaries states of domicile have statutory risk-based capital, or RBC, requirements for health and other insurance companies and HMOs Payments Due by Period 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Risk-Based Capital (RBC) For Health Organizations Model Act, or RBC Model Act. These RBC requirements are intended to measure capital adequacy, taking into account the risk characteristics of an insurer s investments and products. The NAIC sets forth the formula for calculating the RBC requirements, which are designed to take into account asset risks, insurance risks, interest rate risks and other relevant risks with respect to an individual insurance company s business. In general, under the RBC Model Act, an insurance company must submit a report of its RBC level to the state insurance department or insurance commissioner, as appropriate, at the end of each calendar year. Our regulated subsidiaries respective RBC levels as of December 31, 2019, which was the most recent date for which reporting was required, were in excess of all applicable mandatory RBC requirements. In addition to exceeding these RBC requirements, we are in compliance with the liquidity and capital requirements for a licensee of the BCBSA and with the tangible net worth requirements applicable to certain of our California subsidiaries. Report on Form 10-K. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. changes in market valuations. Potential impacts discussed below are based upon sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position as of December 31, 2019. Actual results could vary from these estimates. Our primary objectives with our investment portfolio are to provide safety and preservation of capital, sufficient liquidity to meet cash flow requirements, the integration of investment strategy with the business operations and an attainment of a competitive after-tax total return. Investments quality risk is defined as the risk of a credit event, such as a ratings downgrade or default, to an individual fixed maturity security and the potential loss attributable to that event. Credit quality risk is managed through our investment policy, which establishes credit quality limitations on the overall portfolio as well as diversification and percentage limits on securities of individual issuers. The result is a well-diversified portfolio of fixed maturity securities, with an average credit rating of approximately A. Interest rate risk is defined as the potential for economic losses on fixed maturity securities due to a change in market interest rates. Our fixed maturity portfolio is invested primarily in U.S. government securities, corporate bonds, asset-backed bonds, mortgage-related securities and municipal bonds, all of which have exposure to changes in the level of market interest rates. Interest rate risk is managed by maintaining asset duration within a band based upon our liabilities, operating performance and liquidity needs. Additionally, we have the capability of holding any security to maturity, which would allow us to realize full par value. are subject to credit default risk. In a declining economic environment, corporate yields will usually increase, prompted by concern over the ability of corporations to make interest payments, thus causing a decrease in the price of corporate securities, and the decline in value of the corporate fixed maturity portfolio. We manage this risk through fundamental credit analysis, diversification of issuers and industries and an average credit rating of our corporate fixed maturity portfolio of approximately BBB. evaluated the impact on the fixed maturity portfolio s fair value considering an immediate 100 basis point change in interest rates. A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate 860 decrease in fair value, whereas a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would result in an approximate 871 increase in fair value. While we classify our fixed maturity securities as available-for-sale for accounting purposes, we believe our cash flows and the duration of our portfolio should allow us to hold securities to maturity, thereby avoiding the recognition of losses should interest rates rise significantly. For additional information, see Note 21, Statutory Information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual As a result of our investing and borrowing activities, we are exposed to financial market risks, including those resulting from changes in interest rates and Our investment portfolio is exposed to three primary sources of risk: credit quality risk, interest rate risk and market valuation risk. The primary risks associated with our fixed maturity securities, which are classified as available-for-sale, are credit quality risk and interest rate risk. Credit Investments in fixed maturity securities include corporate securities, which account for 45.5% of our total fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2019 and Market risk for fixed maturity securities is addressed by actively managing the duration, allocation and diversification of our investment portfolio. We have (In Millions, Except Per Share Data or As Otherwise Stated Herein) funds. Our equity portfolio is subject to the volatility inherent in the stock market, driven by concerns over economic conditions, earnings and sales growth, inflation, and consumer confidence. These systemic risks cannot be managed through diversification alone. However, more routine risks, such as stock industry specific risks, are managed by investing in a diversified equity portfolio. movement, would result in a fair value decrease of 104. Alternatively, an immediate 10% increase in each equity investment s value, attributable to the same factor, would result in a fair value increase of 104. and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Investments within Part II, Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Long-Term Debt by one of our insurance subsidiaries. At December 31, 2019, the carrying value and estimated fair value of our long-term debt was 19,385 and 21,774, respectively. This debt is subject to interest rate risk, as these instruments have fixed interest rates and the fair value is affected by changes in market interest rates. Should interest rates increase or decrease in the future, the estimated fair value of our fixed rate debt would decrease or increase accordingly. included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Derivatives exposure to interest rate risk through the use of derivative financial instruments. These strategies include the use of interest rate swaps and forward contracts, which are used to lock-in interest rates or to hedge (on an economic basis) interest rate risks associated with variable rate debt. We have used these types of instruments as designated hedges against specific liabilities. value of the swaps at that date. We have evaluated the impact on the interest rate swaps fair value considering an immediate 100 basis point change in interest rates. A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate 20 decrease in fair value, whereas a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would result in an approximate 20 increase in fair value. included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our equity portfolio is comprised of large capitalization and small capitalization domestic equities, foreign equities, exchange-traded funds and index mutual As of December 31, 2019, 4.9% of our investments were equity securities. An immediate 10% decrease in each equity investment s value, arising from market For additional information regarding our investments, see Note 4, Investments, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 Our total long-term debt at December 31, 2019 consists of senior unsecured notes, convertible debentures, commercial paper and subordinated surplus notes For additional information regarding our long-term debt, see Note 6, Fair Value and Note 12, Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements We have exposure to economic losses due to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. We attempt to mitigate our Changes in interest rates will affect the estimated fair value of these derivatives. As of December 31, 2019, we recorded a net asset of 21, the estimated fair For additional information regarding our derivatives, see Note 5, Derivative Financial Instruments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA. Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 71 Audited Consolidated Financial Statements: Consolidated Balance Sheets 74 Consolidated Statements of Income 75 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 76 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 77 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity 78 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 79 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 ANTHEM, INC. To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Anthem, Inc. Opinion on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Anthem, Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(c) (collectively referred to as the consolidated financial statements ). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework), and our report dated February 19, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Adoption of New Accounting Standards As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, on January 1, 2018, the Company changed its method of accounting for non-consolidated equity investments that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting. As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, on January 1, 2019, the Company changed its method of accounting for leases. Basis for Opinion These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matters The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate. Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Valuation of Incurred but Not Paid Claims Description of the Matter How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit Medical claims payable was 8,842 million at December 31, 2019, a significant portion of which related to the Company s estimate for claims that are incurred but not paid. As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company s liability for incurred but not paid claims is determined using actuarial methods that include a number of factors and assumptions, including completion factors, which represent the average percentage of total incurred claims that have been paid through a given date after being incurred based on historical paid claims data, and trend factors, which represent an estimate of claims expense based on recent claims expense levels and healthcare cost levels. There is significant uncertainty inherent in determining management s best estimate of completion and trend factors, which are used to calculate actuarial estimates of incurred but not paid claims. Auditing management s estimate of incurred but not paid claims was complex and required the involvement of our actuarial specialists due to the highly judgmental nature of the completion and trend factor assumptions used in the valuation process. The significant judgment was primarily due to the sensitivity of management s best estimate of completion and trend factor assumptions, which have a significant impact on the valuation of incurred but not paid claims. We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company s actuarial process for estimating the liability for incurred but not paid claims. These audit procedures included among others, testing management review controls over completion and trend factor assumptions and the review and approval processes that management has in place for estimating the liability for incurred but not paid claims. To test the Company s liability for incurred but not paid claims, our audit procedures included, among others, testing the completeness and accuracy of the underlying claims and membership data recorded in the source claims processing and disbursement systems to the data used by management in developing completion and trend factor assumptions and comparing a sample of incurred and paid claims to source documentation. With the support of actuarial specialists, we analyzed the Company s completion and trend factor assumptions based on historical claim experience and emerging cost trends, and independently calculated a range of reasonable reserve estimates for comparison to management s best estimate of the liability for incurred but not paid claims. Additionally, we performed a review of the prior period liabilities for incurred but not paid claims to subsequent claims development. We have served as the Company s auditor since 1944. Indianapolis, Indiana February 19, 2020 Revenue Recognition for New Pharmacy Benefits Manager Business Description of the Matter How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit Beginning in the second quarter of 2019, the Company commenced operations of its new pharmacy benefits manager (PBM), IngenioRx. Administrative fees and other revenue of 8,968 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 included product revenue for services performed by IngenioRx to unaffiliated PBM customers. As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, product revenue for PBM services to unaffiliated PBM customers is recognized using the gross method at the negotiated contract price when IngenioRx has concluded it is the principal and it controls the PBM services before prescription drugs are transferred to the customer. There is significant judgment in determining whether IngenioRx is the principal of the PBM services, which requires the identification of PBM activities relevant to evaluating control and an assessment of IngenioRx's ability to direct the identified activities. In particular, the PBM activities that determine control include formulary management, network management and pricing discretion. Auditing management s revenue recognition for PBM services to unaffiliated PBM customers required a high degree of auditor judgment due to the subjectivity in determining whether IngenioRx is the principal in the performance of PBM services. These judgments have a significant impact on the presentation and disclosure of product revenue for services performed by IngenioRx to unaffiliated PBM customers. We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company s evaluation of revenue recognition for PBM services performed by IngenioRx to unaffiliated PBM customers. These audit procedures included among others, testing management review controls over the identification of PBM activities relevant to evaluating control and the evaluation performed to assess IngenioRx s ability to direct the identified activities. To test the Company s revenue recognition for PBM services to unaffiliated PBM customers, our audit procedures included, among others, assessing the PBM activities provided by IngenioRx to the customer and analyzing the contractual rights and obligations contained in its PBM services agreement with CaremarkPCS Health, L.L.C. Further, we evaluated IngenioRx s ability to direct the identified PBM activities determined to be significant in fulfilling the promise to provide PBM services to its customers by evaluating evidence of management s control over such activities. In addition, we inspected the terms and conditions of a sample of unaffiliated PBM customer contracts to evaluate IngenioRx s assertion of control. s ERNST & YOUNG LLP (In millions, except share data) Current assets: Total current assets 39,033 34,321 Long-term investments: Property and equipment, net 3,133 2,735 Goodwill 20,500 20,504 Other intangible assets 8,674 9,007 Other noncurrent assets 1,350 758 Total assets 77,453 71,571 Liabilities and shareholders equity Liabilities Current liabilities: Total current liabilities 23,617 21,965 Long-term debt, less current portion 17,787 17,217 Reserves for future policy benefits, noncurrent 674 706 Deferred tax liabilities, net 2,227 1,960 Other noncurrent liabilities 1,420 1,182 Total liabilities 45,725 43,030 Commitments and contingencies Note 13 Shareholders equity Preferred stock, without par value, shares authorized - 100,000,000 shares issued and outstanding - none Common stock, par value 0.01, shares authorized - 900,000,000 shares issued and outstanding - 252,922,161 and 257,395,577 3 3 Additional paid-in capital 9,448 9,536 Retained earnings 22,573 19,988 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (296) (986) Total shareholders equity 31,728 28,541 Cash and cash equivalents 4,937 3,934 Fixed maturity securities, current (amortized cost of 19,021 and 16,894) 19,676 16,692 Equity securities, current 1,009 1,493 Other invested assets, current 13 21 Accrued investment income 173 162 Premium receivables 5,173 4,465 Self-funded receivables 2,411 2,278 Other receivables 2,634 2,558 Income taxes receivable 335 10 Securities lending collateral 353 604 Other current assets 2,319 2,104 Fixed maturity securities (amortized cost of 487 and 486) 505 487 Equity securities 30 33 Other invested assets 4,228 3,726 Policy liabilities: Total policy liabilities 11,977 10,119 Unearned income 1,017 902 Accounts payable and accrued expenses 4,198 4,959 Security trades pending payable 84 197 Securities lending payable 351 604 Short-term borrowings 700 1,145 Current portion of long-term debt 1,598 849 Other current liabilities 3,692 3,190 Medical claims payable 8,842 7,454 Reserves for future policy benefits 85 75 Other policyholder liabilities 3,050 2,590 Consolidated Balance Sheets Anthem, Inc. December 31, December 31, See accompanying notes. Total liabilities and shareholders equity 77,453 71,571 See accompanying notes. Years Ended December 31 (In millions, except per share data) 2019 2018 2017 Revenues Premiums 94,173 85,421 83,648 Administrative fees and other revenue 8,968 5,920 5,413 Total operating revenue 103,141 91,341 89,061 Net investment income 1,005 970 867 Net realized gains (losses) on financial instruments 114 (180) 145 Other-than-temporary impairment losses on investments: Total revenues 104,213 92,105 90,040 Expenses Benefit expense 81,786 71,895 72,236 Cost of products sold 1,992 Selling, general and administrative expense 13,364 14,020 12,650 Interest expense 746 753 739 Amortization of other intangible assets 338 358 169 Loss on extinguishment of debt 2 11 282 Total expenses 98,228 87,037 86,076 Income before income tax expense 5,985 5,068 3,964 Income tax expense 1,178 1,318 121 Net income 4,807 3,750 3,843 Net income per share Dividends per share 3.20 3.00 2.70 Basic 18.81 14.53 14.70 Diluted 18.47 14.19 14.35 Total other-than-temporary impairment losses on investments (53) (29) (35) Portion of other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in other comprehensive income Other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income (47) (26) (33) (loss) 6 3 2 Consolidated Statements of Income Anthem, Inc. See accompanying notes. Years Ended December 31 (In millions) 2019 2018 2017 Net income 4,807 3,750 3,843 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax: Change in net unrealized gains losses on investments 680 (418) 173 Change in non-credit component of other-than-temporary impairment losses on Change in net unrealized gains losses on cash flow hedges (16) 37 (65) Change in net periodic pension and postretirement costs 26 (90) 51 Foreign currency translation adjustments (1) 3 Other comprehensive income (loss) 690 (474) 166 Total comprehensive income 5,497 3,276 4,009 investments (2) 4 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Anthem, Inc. Years Ended December 31 (In millions) 2019 2018 2017 Operating activities Net income 4,807 3,750 3,843 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Net cash provided by operating activities 6,061 3,827 4,185 Investing activities Purchases of fixed maturity securities (10,487) (8,244) (9,795) Proceeds from fixed maturity securities: Purchases of equity securities (11,825) (896) (5,416) Proceeds from sales of equity securities 12,364 2,809 3,463 Purchases of other invested assets (642) (531) (1,164) Proceeds from sales of other invested assets 320 411 219 Changes in collateral and settlement of non-hedging derivatives 65 Changes in securities lending collateral 254 (149) 625 Purchases of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (1,760) (2,080) Purchases of property and equipment (1,077) (1,208) (791) Other, net (50) (71) 12 Net cash used in investing activities (2,792) (1,259) (5,082) Financing activities Net (repayments of) proceeds from commercial paper borrowings (297) (107) 175 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 2,473 835 5,458 Repayments of long-term borrowings (1,123) (1,684) (2,815) Proceeds from short-term borrowings 7,590 9,120 5,835 Repayments of short-term borrowings (8,035) (9,250) (5,000) Changes in securities lending payable (254) 150 (625) Changes in bank overdrafts (169) (210) 71 Premiums paid on equity call options (1) Proceeds from sale of put options 1 1 Proceeds from issuance of common stock under Equity Units stock purchase contracts 1,250 Repurchase and retirement of common stock (1,701) (1,685) (1,998) Change in collateral and settlements of debt-related derivatives (34) 23 (149) Cash dividends (818) (776) (705) Proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans 187 173 225 Taxes paid through withholding of common stock under employee stock plans (84) (81) (46) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (2,266) (2,241) 427 Net realized (gains) losses on financial instruments (114) 180 (145) Other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income 47 26 33 Loss on extinguishment of debt 2 11 282 Loss on disposal of assets 3 13 15 Deferred income taxes 81 91 (1,272) Amortization, net of accretion 986 1,008 780 Depreciation expense 147 124 111 Share-based compensation 294 226 170 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Receivables, net (1,053) (695) (22) Other invested assets (48) (1) (36) Other assets (170) (26) (629) Policy liabilities 1,826 (1,059) 732 Unearned income 115 (36) (120) Accounts payable and accrued expenses (593) 122 922 Other liabilities 148 (25) (120) Income taxes (325) 323 (194) Other, net (92) (205) (165) Sales 5,914 6,442 7,932 Maturities, calls and redemptions 2,437 1,938 1,848 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Anthem, Inc. See accompanying notes. Effect of foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (2) 4 Change in cash and cash equivalents 1,003 325 (466) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 3,934 3,609 4,075 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 4,937 3,934 3,609 See accompanying notes. Common Stock Equity (In millions) January 1, 2017 263.7 3 8,805 16,560 (267) 25,101 Net income 3,843 3,843 Other comprehensive income 166 166 Premiums for and settlement of equity options 1 1 Repurchase and retirement of common stock (10.5) (356) (1,642) (1,998) Dividends and dividend equivalents (707) (707) Issuance of common stock under employee stock plans, net Convertible debenture conversions (245) (245) December 31, 2017 256.1 3 8,547 18,054 (101) 26,503 Adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01 (Note 2) 320 (320) January 1, 2018 256.1 3 8,547 18,374 (421) 26,503 Net income 3,750 3,750 Other comprehensive loss (474) (474) Issuance of common stock under Equity Units stock Premiums for and settlement of equity options 1 1 Repurchase and retirement of common stock (6.8) (243) (1,442) (1,685) Dividends and dividend equivalents (785) (785) Issuance of common stock under employee stock plans, net Convertible debenture conversions (337) (337) Adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-02 December 31, 2018 257.4 3 9,536 19,988 (986) 28,541 Adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02 January 1, 2019 257.4 3 9,536 20,014 (986) 28,567 Net income 4,807 4,807 Other comprehensive income 690 690 Repurchase and retirement of common stock (6.3) (275) (1,426) (1,701) Dividends and dividend equivalents (822) (822) Issuance of common stock under employee stock plans, net Convertible debenture repurchases and conversions (209) (209) December 31, 2019 252.9 3 9,448 22,573 (296) 31,728 of related tax benefits 2.9 342 342 purchase contracts 6.0 1,250 1,250 of related tax benefits 2.1 318 318 (Note 2) 91 (91) (Note 2) 26 26 of related tax benefits 1.8 396 396 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity Number of Shares Anthem, Inc. Par Value Additional Paid-in Capital Accumulated Retained Earnings Comprehensive Shareholders 1. Organization corporation, and unless the context otherwise requires, its direct and indirect subsidiaries. our affiliated health plans as of December 31, 2019. We offer a broad spectrum of network-based managed care plans to Large Group, Small Group, Individual, Medicaid and Medicare markets. Our managed care plans include: Preferred Provider Organizations, or PPOs Health Maintenance Organizations, or HMOs Point-of-Service plans traditional indemnity plans and other hybrid plans, including Consumer-Driven Health Plans and hospital only and limited benefit products. In addition, we provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers, including claims processing, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and other administrative services. We provide an array of specialty and other insurance products and services such as pharmacy benefits management, or PBM, dental, vision, life and disability insurance benefits, radiology benefit management and analytics-driven personal healthcare. We also provide services to the federal government in connection with our Federal Health Products & Services business, which administers the Federal Employees Health Benefits, or FEHB, Program. members as the Blue Cross licensee for California and as the Blue Cross and Blue Shield, or BCBS, licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (in the New York City metropolitan area and upstate New York), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.) and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas, we do business as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, and Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield or Empire Blue Cross. We also conduct business through arrangements with other BCBS licensees as well as other strategic partners. Through our subsidiaries, we also serve customers in numerous states across the country as Aim Specialty Health, Amerigroup, Aspire Health, CareMore, Freedom Health, HealthLink, HealthSun, Optimum HealthCare, Simply Healthcare, and or UniCare. Also, in the second quarter of 2019, we began providing PBM services through our IngenioRx subsidiary. We are licensed to conduct insurance operations in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through our subsidiaries. 2. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. liabilities of those subsidiaries to USD using the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period. We translate the revenues and expenses of those subsidiaries to USD using the average exchange rates in effect during the period. The net effect of these translation adjustments is included in Foreign currency translation adjustments in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. References to the terms we, our, us or Anthem used throughout these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements refer to Anthem, Inc., an Indiana We are one of the largest health benefits companies in the United States in terms of medical membership, serving approximately 41 medical members through We are an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, or BCBSA, an association of independent health benefit plans. We serve our Basis of Presentation: The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Anthem and its subsidiaries and have been prepared in Certain of our subsidiaries operate outside of the United States and have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar, or USD. We translate the assets and Reclassifications: Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Use of Estimates: The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect (In Millions, Except Per Share Data or As Otherwise Stated Herein) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2019 Anthem, Inc. purchased. We control a number of bank accounts that are used exclusively to hold customer funds for the administration of customer benefits, and we have cash and cash equivalents on deposit to meet certain regulatory requirements. These amounts totaled 215 and 222 at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and are included in the cash and cash equivalents line on our consolidated balance sheets. provides guidance on the recognition, presentation of, and disclosures for OTTIs. If a fixed maturity security is in an unrealized loss position and we have the intent to sell the fixed maturity security, or it is more likely than not that we will have to sell the fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, the decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and is presented within the other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in our consolidated statements of income. For impaired fixed maturity securities that we do not intend to sell or it is more likely than not that we will not have to sell such securities, but we expect that we will not fully recover the amortized cost basis, the credit component of the OTTI is presented within the other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in our consolidated statements of income and the non-credit component of the OTTI is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss in our consolidated balance sheets. Furthermore, unrealized losses entirely caused by non-credit related factors related to fixed maturity securities for which we expect to fully recover the amortized cost basis continue to be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss. the fixed maturity security. The net present value is calculated by discounting our best estimate of projected future cash flows at the effective interest rate implicit in the fixed maturity security at the date of acquisition. For mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, cash flow estimates are based on assumptions regarding the underlying collateral, including prepayment speeds, vintage, type of underlying asset, geographic concentrations, default rates, recoveries and changes in value. For all other securities, cash flow estimates are driven by assumptions regarding probability of default, including changes in credit ratings and estimates regarding timing and amount of recoveries associated with a default. estimated economic life of the securities. When estimates of prepayments change, the effective yield is recalculated to reflect actual payments to date and anticipated future payments. The net investment in the securities is adjusted to the amount that would have existed had the new effective yield been applied since the acquisition of the securities. Such adjustments are reported within net investment income. results of operations within net realized gains and losses on financial instruments. Prior to 2018, the unrealized gains or losses on our equity securities previously classified as available-for-sale were included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of shareholders equity, unless the decline in value was deemed to be other-than-temporary and we did not have the intent and ability to hold such equity securities until their full cost could be recovered, in which case such equity securities were written down to fair value and the loss was charged to other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income. defer certain types of compensation and elect to receive a return on the deferred amounts based on the changes in fair value of various investment options, primarily a variety of mutual funds. We have corporate-owned life insurance policies on certain participants in our deferred compensation plans. The cash surrender value of the corporate-owned life insurance policies is reported in other invested assets, long-term, in the consolidated balance sheets. The remaining rabbi trust assets are generally invested according to the participant s investment election and are classified as trading, which are reported in other invested assets, current, in the consolidated balance sheets. decisions of the investee company. Our proportionate share of equity in net income of these unconsolidated affiliates is reported within net investment income. Cash and Cash Equivalents: Cash and cash equivalents includes available cash and all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when Investments: Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, other-than-temporary impairment, or OTTI, guidance applies to fixed maturity securities and The credit component of an OTTI is determined primarily by comparing the net present value of projected future cash flows with the amortized cost basis of For asset-backed securities included in fixed maturity securities, we recognize income using an effective yield based on anticipated prepayments and the Effective January 1, 2018 and in accordance with the FASB guidance, the changes in fair value of our marketable equity securities are recognized in our We maintain various rabbi trusts to account for the assets and liabilities under certain deferred compensation plans. Under these plans, the participants can We use the equity method of accounting for investments in companies in which our ownership interest enables us to influence the operating or financial Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. losses are determined on the basis of the cost or amortized cost of the specific securities sold. exchange for cash and securities collateral. Under FASB guidance related to accounting for transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities, we recognize the collateral as an asset, which is reported as securities lending collateral on our consolidated balance sheets, and we record a corresponding liability for the obligation to return the collateral to the borrower, which is reported as securities lending payable. The securities on loan are reported in the applicable investment category on our consolidated balance sheets. Unrealized gains or losses on securities lending collateral are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of shareholders equity. The market value of loaned securities and that of the collateral pledged can fluctuate in non-synchronized fashions. To the extent the loaned securities value appreciates faster or depreciates slower than the value of the collateral pledged, we are exposed to the risk of the shortfall. As a primary mitigating mechanism, the loaned securities and collateral pledged are marked to market on a daily basis and the shortfall, if any, is collected accordingly. Secondarily, the collateral level is set at 102% of the value of the loaned securities, which provides a cushion before any shortfall arises. The investment of the cash collateral is subject to market risk, which is managed by limiting the investments to higher quality and shorter duration instruments. reported net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of 237 and 278 at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Self-funded receivables include administrative fees, claims and other amounts due from self-funded customers. Self-funded receivables are reported net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of 46 and 47 at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on historical collection trends and our judgment regarding the ability to collect specific accounts. other government receivables and other miscellaneous amounts due to us. These receivables are reported net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of 242 and 280 at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which is based on historical collection trends and our judgment regarding the ability to collect specific accounts. financial statement and tax return basis of assets and liabilities based on enacted tax rates and laws. The deferred tax benefits of the deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent realization of such benefits is more likely than not. Deferred income tax expense or benefit generally represents the net change in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year, excluding the impact from amounts initially recorded for business combinations, if any, and amounts recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss. Current income tax expense represents the tax consequences of revenues and expenses currently taxable or deductible on various income tax returns for the year reported. accounting for income taxes by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold, which all income tax positions must achieve before being recognized in the financial statements. line method over estimated useful lives ranging from fifteen to thirty-nine years for buildings and improvements, three to five years for computer equipment and software, and the lesser of the remaining life of the building lease, if any, or seven years for furniture and other equipment. Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the term of the related lease. Certain costs related to the development or purchase of internal-use software are capitalized and amortized over estimated useful lives ranging from five to ten years. also specifies the types of acquired intangible assets that are required to be recognized and reported separately from goodwill. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of net assets acquired. Other intangible assets represent the values assigned to customer relationships, provider and hospital networks, Blue Cross and Blue Shield and other trademarks, licenses and other agreements, such as non-compete. Goodwill and other intangible assets are allocated to reportable segments based on the relative fair value of the components of the businesses acquired. Investment income is recorded when earned. All securities sold resulting in investment gains and losses are recorded on the trade date. Realized gains and We participate in securities lending programs whereby marketable securities in our investment portfolio are transferred to independent brokers or dealers in Receivables: Premium receivables include the uncollected amounts from insured groups, individuals and government programs. Premium receivables are Other receivables include pharmacy rebates, provider advances, claims recoveries, reinsurance receivables, proceeds due from brokers on investment trades, Income Taxes: We file a consolidated income tax return. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for temporary differences between the We account for income tax contingencies in accordance with FASB guidance that contains a model to address uncertainty in tax positions and clarifies the Property and Equipment: Property and equipment is recorded at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed principally by the straight- Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets: FASB guidance requires business combinations to be accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, and it Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. impairment tests of existing goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives during the fourth quarter of each year. Certain interim impairment tests are also performed when potential impairment indicators exist or changes in our business or other triggering events occur. Goodwill and other intangible assets are allocated to reporting units for purposes of the annual goodwill impairment test. Other intangible assets with indefinite lives, such as trademarks, are tested for impairment separately. purposes of a goodwill impairment analysis and whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired for purposes of an indefinite- lived intangible asset impairment analysis. Quantitative analysis must be performed if qualitative analyses are not conclusive. Entities also have the option to bypass the assessment of qualitative factors and proceed directly to performing quantitative analyses. Our impairment tests require us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the estimated fair value of our reporting units, including goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives. Estimated fair values developed based on our assumptions and judgments might be significantly different if other reasonable assumptions and estimates were to be used. indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired. Our procedures include assessing our financial performance, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, various asset specific factors, and entity specific events. projected income approach is developed using assumptions about future revenue, expenses and net income derived from our internal planning process. Our assumed discount rate is based on our industry s weighted-average cost of capital and reflects volatility associated with the cost of equity capital. Market valuations include market comparisons to publicly traded companies in our industry and are based on observed multiples of certain measures including revenue earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA and book value of invested capital. A goodwill impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the asset s fair value. This determination is made at the reporting unit level and consists of two steps. First, the fair value of a reporting unit is determined and compared to its carrying amount. Second, if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized for any excess of the carrying amount of the reporting unit s goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation on a business acquisition, at the impairment test date. impairment loss when the estimated fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is less than the carrying value. If significant impairment indicators are noted relative to other intangible assets subject to amortization, we may be required to record impairment losses against future income. contracts, put and call options, swaptions, embedded derivatives and warrants. Derivatives embedded within non-derivative instruments, such as options embedded in convertible fixed maturity securities, are bifurcated from the host instrument when the embedded derivative is not clearly and closely related to the host instrument. Our use of derivatives is limited by statutes and regulations promulgated by the various regulatory bodies to which we are subject, and by our own derivative policy. Our derivative use is generally limited to hedging purposes, on an economic basis, and we generally do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. exposure to interest rate risk through active portfolio management, including rebalancing our existing portfolios of assets and liabilities, as well as changing the characteristics of investments to be purchased or sold in the future. In addition, derivative financial instruments are used to modify the interest rate exposure of certain liabilities or forecasted transactions. These strategies include the use of interest rate swaps and forward contracts, which are used to lock-in interest rates or to hedge, on an economic basis, interest rate risks associated with variable rate debt. We have used these types of instruments as designated hedges against specific liabilities. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are tested for impairment at least annually. We complete our annual FASB guidance allows for qualitative assessments of whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount for Qualitative analysis involves assessing situations and developments that could affect key drivers used to evaluate whether the fair value of our goodwill and Fair value for purposes of a quantitative goodwill impairment test is calculated using a blend of the projected income and market valuation approaches. The Fair value for purposes of a quantitative impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets is estimated using a projected income approach. We recognize an Derivative Financial Instruments: We primarily invest in the following types of derivative financial instruments: interest rate swaps, futures, forward We have exposure to economic losses due to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. We attempt to mitigate our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. derivative may be specifically designated as a hedge of exposure to changes in fair value or cash flow. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the nature of any hedge designation thereon. Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness, if any, as well as the ineffective portion of the gain or loss, are reported in results of operations immediately. If the derivative is not designated as a hedge, the gain or loss resulting from the change in the fair value of the derivative is recognized in results of operations in the period of change. Cash flows associated with the settlement of non-designated derivatives are shown on a net basis in investing activity in our consolidated statements of cash flow. the operations of certain of our subsidiaries. We generally use futures or forward contracts for these transactions. We generally do not designate these contracts as hedges and, accordingly, the changes in fair value of these derivatives are recognized in results of operations immediately. asset related to instruments recognized in the consolidated balance sheets. We attempt to mitigate the risk of non-performance by selecting counterparties with high credit ratings and monitoring their creditworthiness and by diversifying derivatives among multiple counterparties. At December 31, 2019, we believe there were no material concentrations of credit risk with any individual counterparty. our derivative agreements also contain credit support provisions that require us or the counterparty to post collateral if there are declines in the derivative fair value or our credit rating. The derivative assets and derivative liabilities are reported at their fair values net of collateral and netting by the counterparty. year-end measurements of plan assets and benefit obligations. Prepaid pension benefits represent prepaid costs related to defined benefit pension plans and are reported with other noncurrent assets. Postretirement benefits represent outstanding obligations for retiree medical, life, vision and dental benefits. Liabilities for pension and other postretirement benefits are reported with current and noncurrent liabilities based on the amount by which the actuarial present value of benefits payable in the next twelve months included in the benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of plan assets. systematic manner over three years. We apply a corridor approach to amortize unrecognized actuarial gains or losses. Under this approach, only accumulated net actuarial gains or losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the fair value of plan assets are amortized over the average remaining service or lifetime of the workforce as a component of net periodic benefit cost. measurement date. We use the annual spot rate approach for setting our discount rate. Under the spot rate approach, individual spot rates from a full yield curve of published rates are used to discount each plan s cash flows to determine the plan s obligations. trend rate declining to an ultimate healthcare cost trend rate over a select number of years. well as estimated provisions for expenses related to the processing of claims. Incurred but not paid claims include (1) an estimate for claims that are incurred but not reported, as well as claims reported to us but not yet processed through our systems and (2) claims reported to us and processed through our systems but not yet paid. actuarial methods that are commonly used by health insurance actuaries and meet Actuarial Standards of Practice. Actuarial Standards of Practice require that the claim liabilities be appropriate under moderately adverse circumstances. We determine the amount of the liability for incurred but not paid claims by following a All investments in derivatives are recorded as assets or liabilities at fair value. If certain correlation, hedge effectiveness and risk reduction criteria are met, a From time to time, we may also purchase derivatives to hedge, on an economic basis, our exposure to foreign currency exchange fluctuations associated with Credit exposure associated with non-performance by the counterparties to derivative instruments is generally limited to the uncollateralized fair value of the We generally enter into master netting agreements, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. Certain of Retirement Benefits: We recognize the funded status of pension and other postretirement benefit plans on the consolidated balance sheets based on fiscal- We determine the expected return on plan assets using the calculated value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets in a The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the end of the year based on our most recent The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used to measure the expected cost of other postretirement benefits are based on an initial assumed healthcare cost Medical Claims Payable: Liabilities for medical claims payable include estimated provisions for incurred but not paid claims on an undiscounted basis, as Liabilities for both claims incurred but not reported and reported but not yet processed through our systems are determined in the aggregate, employing Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. detailed actuarial process that uses both historical claim payment patterns as well as emerging medical cost trends to project our best estimate of claim liabilities. Under this process, historical paid claims data is formatted into claim triangles, which compare claim incurred dates to the dates of claim payments. This information is analyzed to create completion factors that represent the average percentage of total incurred claims that have been paid through a given date after being incurred. Completion factors are applied to claims paid through the period-end date to estimate the ultimate claim expense incurred for the period. Actuarial estimates of incurred but not paid claim liabilities are then determined by subtracting the actual paid claims from the estimate of the ultimate incurred claims. low. This makes the completion factor methodology less reliable for such months. Therefore, incurred claims for recent months are not projected from historical completion and payment patterns rather, they are projected by estimating the claims expense for those months based on recent claims expense levels and healthcare trend levels, or trend factors. the claims liability and benefit expense based on subsequent paid claims activity. If it is determined that our assumptions regarding cost trends and utilization are materially different than actual results, our income statement and financial position could be impacted in future periods. insurance contracts without consideration of investment income. Determination of premium deficiencies for longer duration life and disability contracts includes consideration of investment income. For purposes of premium deficiencies, contracts are deemed to be either short or long duration and are grouped in a manner consistent with our method of acquiring, servicing and measuring the profitability of such contracts. Once established, premium deficiencies are released commensurate with actual claims experience over the remaining life of the contract. No premium deficiencies were established at December 31, 2019 or 2018. those designed to improve member health outcomes, prevent hospital readmissions and improve patient safety. They also include expenses for wellness and health promotion provided to our members. upon interest, mortality and morbidity assumptions from published actuarial tables, modified based upon our experience. Future policy benefits also include liabilities for insurance policies for which some of the premiums received in earlier years are intended to pay anticipated benefits to be incurred in future years. Future policy benefits are continually monitored and reviewed, and when reserves are adjusted, differences are reflected in benefit expense. liabilities for future policy benefits, along with future premiums received, are adequate to satisfy our ultimate benefit liability however, these estimates are inherently subject to a number of variable circumstances. Consequently, the actual results could differ materially from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements. certain case-specific reserves. Other policyholder liabilities also includes liabilities for premium refunds based upon the minimum medical loss ratio, or MLR, the relative health risk of members, or other contractual or regulatory requirements. Rate stabilization reserves represent accumulated premiums that exceed what customers owe us based on actual claim experience. The timing of payment of these retrospectively rated refunds is based on the contractual terms with our customers and can vary from period to period based on the specific contractual requirements. Reconciliation Act of 2010, as amended, or collectively, the ACA. If we do not meet or exceed the minimum MLR thresholds specified by the ACA, we are required to pay rebates to certain customers. Minimum MLR rebates are calculated by subsidiary, state and applicable line of business (Large Group, Small Group, Individual, Student Health and Medicare) in accordance with regulations issued by the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS. Such calculations are made using estimated calendar year medical loss expense and premiums, as defined by HHS. For the most recent incurred months (typically the most recent two months), the percentage of claims paid for claims incurred in those months is generally We regularly review and set assumptions regarding cost trends and utilization when initially establishing claim liabilities. We continually monitor and adjust Premium deficiencies are recognized when it is probable that expected claims and administrative expenses will exceed future premiums on existing medical Benefit expense includes incurred medical claims as well as quality improvement expenses for our fully-insured members. Quality improvement activities are Reserves for Future Policy Benefits: Reserves for future policy benefits include liabilities for life and long-term disability insurance policy benefits based The current portion of reserves for future policy benefits relates to the portion of such reserves that we expect to pay within one year. We believe that our Other Policyholder Liabilities: Other policyholder liabilities include rate stabilization reserves associated with retrospectively rated insurance contracts and We are required to meet certain minimum MLR thresholds prescribed by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. expense and premiums as reported in our consolidated financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP. Certain amounts reported as expense in our consolidated GAAP financial statements may be reported as a reduction of premiums in accordance with HHS regulations. In addition, profit amounts included in our payments to third-party administrative service providers are recorded as benefit expense in our consolidated GAAP financial statements while HHS does not allow for the inclusion of these expenses within the medical loss expense for purposes of calculating minimum MLR. of amounts recognized for MLR rebates, risk adjustment, reinsurance and risk corridor under contractual premium stabilization arrangements, the ACA or other regulatory requirements. Premium payments from contracted government agencies are based on eligibility lists produced by the government agencies. Premiums related to the unexpired contractual coverage periods are reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as unearned income. Premiums include revenue adjustments for retrospectively rated contracts where revenue is based on the estimated loss experience of the contract. Premium rates for certain lines of business are subject to approval by the Department of Insurance of each respective state. Additionally, delays in annual premium rate changes from contracted government agencies require that we defer the recognition of any increases to the period in which the premium rates become final. The value of the impact can be significant in the period in which it is recognized depending on the magnitude of the premium rate increase, the membership to which it applies and the length of the delay between the effective date of the rate increase and the final contract date. Premium rate decreases are recognized in the period the change in premium rate becomes effective and the change in the rate is known, which may be prior to the period when the contract amendment affecting the rate is finalized. insurance arrangements, a portion, of their claims experience. We charge these self-funded groups an administrative fee, which is based on the number of members in a group or the group s claim experience. In addition, administrative fees and other revenue include amounts received for the administration of Medicare or certain other government programs. Under our self-funded arrangements, revenue is recognized as administrative services are performed. All benefit payments under these programs are excluded from benefit expense. unaffiliated PBM customers. Unaffiliated PBM customers include our self-funded groups that have contracted with IngenioRx for PBM services and, beginning on January 1, 2020, third-party health plans. Product revenues and costs of goods sold for Anthem health plans are eliminated in consolidation. Product revenue for PBM services is recognized using the gross method at the negotiated contract price when IngenioRx has concluded that it is the principal and it controls the services before prescription drugs are transferred to the customer. IngenioRx determined it is the principal due to its contractual rights to design and develop a listing of prescription drugs offered to the customer (formulary management) its control over establishing the pharmacy network available to the customer to have its prescription fulfilled (network management) and its discretion over establishing the pricing for prescription drugs. Overall, control over these activities indicate IngenioRx is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide PBM services. Product revenues include ingredient costs (net of any rebates or discounts), including any co-payments made by or on behalf of the customer, and administrative fees. IngenioRx recognizes revenue when control of the prescription drugs is transferred to customers, in an amount it expects to be entitled to in exchange for the services provided. sheet at December 31, 2019. Revenue recognized in 2019 and 2018 from performance obligations related to prior years, such as due to changes in transaction price, was not material. For contracts that have an original expected duration of greater than one year, revenue expected to be recognized in future periods related to unfulfilled contractual performance obligations and contracts with variable consideration related to undelivered performance obligations is not material. discounts). This cost includes any co-payments made by or on behalf of the customer. Cost of products sold also includes per-claim administrative fees for prescription fulfillment by its vendor and certain IngenioRx direct costs related to sales and administration of customer contracts. We follow HHS guidelines for determining the types of expenses that may be included in our minimum MLR rebate calculations, which differ from benefit Revenue Recognition: Premiums for fully-insured contracts are recognized as revenue over the period insurance coverage is provided, and, if applicable, net Administrative fees and other revenue include revenue from certain group contracts that provide for the group to be at risk for all, or with supplemental Administrative fees and other revenue also include product revenue for services performed by our IngenioRx pharmacy benefit manager, or PBM, for For our non-fully-insured contracts, we had no material contract assets, contract liabilities or deferred contract costs recorded on our consolidated balance Cost of Products Sold: IngenioRx s cost of products sold includes the cost of prescription drugs dispensed to unaffiliated PBM customers (net of rebates or Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. and an employee stock purchase plan. Stock options are granted for a fixed number of shares with an exercise price at least equal to the fair value of the shares at the date of the grant. Restricted stock awards are issued at the fair value of the stock on the grant date. The employee stock purchase plan allows for a purchase price per share which is 90% of the fair value of a share of common stock on the lower of the first or last trading day of the plan quarter. The employee stock purchase plan discount is recognized as compensation expense based on GAAP guidance. All other share-based payments to employees are recognized as compensation expense in our consolidated statements of income based on their fair values. Additionally, excess tax benefits, which result from actual tax benefits realized when awards vest or options are exercised exceeding deferred tax benefits previously recognized based on grant date fair value, are recognized as tax benefits in the income statement. Our share-based employee compensation plans and assumptions are described in Note 14, Capital Stock. Also see Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance within this Note 2 for reference to accounting changes adopted related to share-based compensation. products through direct marketing activities and an extensive network of independent agents, brokers and retail partnerships for Individual and Medicare customers, and for certain Local Group customers with a smaller employee base. Products for National Accounts and Local Group customers with a larger employee base are generally sold through independent brokers or consultants retained by the customer who work with industry specialists from our in-house sales force. In the Individual and Small Group markets, we offer products through state or federally facilitated marketplaces, or public exchanges, and off-exchange products. The cost of advertising and marketing for product promotion is expensed as incurred, while advertising and marketing costs associated with our corporate image is expensed when first aired. Total advertising and marketing expense was 467, 385 and 338 for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. insurance on U.S. risks, which has been permanently repealed effective January 1, 2021. The annual HIP Fee is allocated to health insurers based on the ratio of the amount of an insurer s net premium revenues written during the preceding calendar year to the amount of health insurance premium for all U.S. health risk for those certain lines of business written during the preceding calendar year. We record our estimated liability for the HIP Fee in full at the beginning of the year with a corresponding deferred asset that is amortized on a straight-line basis to selling, general and administrative expense. The final calculation and payment of the annual HIP Fee is due by September 30th of each fee year. The HIP Fee is non-deductible for federal income tax purposes. Our affected products are priced to cover the increased selling, general and administrative and income tax expenses associated with the HIP Fee. The total amount due from allocations to health insurers was 14,300 for 2018. The HIP Fee was suspended for 2017 and 2019, has resumed and increased to 15,523 for 2020 and has been permanently eliminated beginning in 2021. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized 1,544 as selling, general and administrative expense related to the HIP Fee. There was no corresponding expense for 2019 or 2017 due to the suspension of the HIP Fee for 2019 and 2017. contains a lease at its inception. We recognize lease liabilities based on the present value of the minimum lease payments not yet paid by using the lease term, any amounts probable of being owed under any residual value guarantees and the discount rate determined at lease commencement. As our leases do not generally provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental secured borrowing rate commensurate with the underlying lease terms to determine the present value of our lease payments. Our lease liabilities may include amounts for options to extend or terminate a lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. We recognize operating right-of-use, or ROU, assets at an amount equal to the lease liability adjusted for prepaid or accrued rent, the remaining balance of any lease incentives and unamortized initial direct costs. noncurrent assets on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2019. Lease expense for our operating leases is calculated on a straight-line basis over the lease term and is reported in selling, general and administrative expense on our consolidated statements of income. For our office space leases, we account for the lease and non-lease components (such as common area maintenance) as a single lease component. We also do not recognize a lease liability or ROU asset for our office space leases whose lease terms, at commencement, are twelve months or less and that do not include a purchase option or option to extend that we are reasonably certain to exercise. Share-Based Compensation: Our current compensation philosophy provides for share-based compensation, including stock options, restricted stock awards Advertising and Marketing Costs: We use print, broadcast and other advertising to promote our products and to develop our corporate image. We market our Health Insurance Provider Fee: The ACA imposed an annual Health Insurance Provider Fee, or HIP Fee, on health insurers that write certain types of health Leases: We lease office space and certain computer and related equipment under noncancelable operating leases. We determine whether an arrangement is or The operating lease liabilities are reported in other current liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities and the related ROU assets are reported in other Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. outstanding for the period. common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share may include the dilutive effect of stock options, restricted stock, convertible debentures and Equity Units, using the treasury stock method. See Note 12, Debt, for a description of our Equity Units. The treasury stock method assumes exercise of stock options and vesting of restricted stock, with the assumed proceeds used to purchase common stock at the average market price for the period. The difference between the number of shares assumed issued and number of shares assumed purchased represents the dilutive shares. Improvements. In July 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements and Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases. These updates provide additional clarification, an optional transition method, a practical expedient and implementation guidance on the previously issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). Collectively, these updates supersede the lease guidance in Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 840 and require lessees to recognize for all leases, with the exception of short- term leases, a lease liability, which is a lessee s obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis. Concurrently, lessees are required to recognize an ROU asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee s right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term. We adopted this standard on January 1, 2019 by applying the optional transition method on the adoption date and did not adjust comparative periods. We also elected the package of practical expedients permitted, which, among other things, allowed us to carry forward the lease classification for our existing leases. In preparation for the adoption of this standard and to enable preparation of the required financial information, we implemented a new lease accounting software solution as well as new internal controls. The adoption of this standard impacted our 2019 opening consolidated balance sheet, as we recorded operating lease liabilities of 728 and ROU assets of 637, which equals the lease liabilities net of accrued rent, lease incentives and the carrying amount of ceased-use liabilities previously recorded on our consolidated balance sheet under the prior guidance. We also recognized a cumulative-effect adjustment of 26 to our opening retained earnings for deferred gains on our previous sale-leaseback transactions. The adoption of this standard did not have an impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows. Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement, or ASU 2018-13. The amendments in ASU 2018-13 eliminate, add, and modify certain disclosure requirements for fair value measurements. The amendments are effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted for either the entirety of ASU 2018-13 or only the provisions that eliminate or modify disclosure requirements. We early adopted the provisions that eliminate and modify disclosure requirements, on a retrospective basis, effective in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We adopted the new disclosure requirements on January 1, 2020, on a prospective basis. The new disclosure requirements are effective for our interim and annual reporting periods beginning on or after the adoption date. Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, or ASU 2018-02. On December 22, 2017, the federal government enacted a tax bill, H.R.1, An act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018, or the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including, but not limited to, reducing the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and modifying or limiting many business deductions. Current FASB guidance requires adjustments of deferred taxes due to a change in the federal corporate income tax rate to be included in income from operations. As a result, the tax effects of items within accumulated other comprehensive loss did not reflect the appropriate tax rate. The amendments in ASU 2018-02 allow a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the change in the federal corporate income tax rate. We adopted the amendments in ASU 2018-02 for our interim and annual reporting periods beginning on January 1, 2018 and reclassified 91 of stranded tax effects from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings on our consolidated balance sheets. The adoption of ASU 2018-02 did not have any impact on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows. Earnings per Share: Earnings per share amounts, on a basic and diluted basis, have been calculated based upon the weighted-average common shares Basic earnings per share excludes dilution and is computed by dividing income available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance: In March 2019, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2019-01, Leases (Topic 842): Codification In August 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework Changes to the In February 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-02, Income Statement Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. for Hedging Activities, or ASU 2017-12. This update amends the hedge accounting recognition and presentation requirements in ASC Topic 815 with the objective of improving the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity s risk management activities in its financial statements. The update also makes certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance and provides several transition elections. We adopted ASU 2017-12 on October 1, 2017. The adoption of ASU 2017-12 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Accounting, or ASU 2017-09. This update provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC Topic 718. We adopted ASU 2017-09 on January 1, 2018. The guidance has been and will be applied prospectively to awards modified on or after the adoption date. The adoption of ASU 2017-09 did not have any impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt Securities, or ASU 2017-08. This update changes the amortization period for certain purchased callable debt securities held at a premium by shortening the amortization period for the premium to the earliest call date. Under current guidance, the premium is generally amortized over the contractual life of the instrument. The amendments are to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. We adopted ASU 2017-08 on January 1, 2019, and the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our beginning retained earnings or on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost, or ASU 2017-07. This amendment requires entities to disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of the benefit cost and present the service cost component in the same income statement line item as other employee compensation costs arising from services rendered by the pertinent employees during the period. The other components of net benefit cost are required to be presented in the income statement separately from the service cost component and outside a subtotal of income from operations. Certain of our defined benefit plans have previously been frozen, resulting in no annual service costs, and the remaining service costs for our non-frozen plan are not material. We adopted ASU 2017-07 on January 1, 2018 and it did not have a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows or consolidated financial position. Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. In May 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients. In April 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, or ASU 2016-10. In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross verses Net). These updates provide additional clarification and implementation guidance on the previously issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). Collectively, these updates require a company to recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. These updates supersede almost all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP, with certain exceptions, including an exception for our premium revenues, which are recorded on the Premiums line item on our consolidated statements of income and will continue to be accounted for in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 944, Financial Services - Insurance. Our administrative service and other contracts that are subject to these Accounting Standards Updates are recorded in the Administrative fees and other revenue line item on our consolidated statements of income and were immaterial to our consolidated total operating revenue at the time of adoption. We adopted these standards on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. The adoption of these standards did not have a material impact on our beginning retained earnings, results of operations, cash flows or consolidated financial position. This update amends ASC Topic 230 to add and clarify guidance on the classification and In August 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting In May 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification In March 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-08, Receivables Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs (Subtopic 310-20): In March 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-07, Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of In December 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-20, Technical Corrections and In November 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash, or ASU 2016-18. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows. The guidance requires entities to show the changes in the total of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. We adopted ASU 2016-18 on January 1, 2018 using a retrospective approach. The adoption of ASU 2016-18 did not have a material impact on our consolidated statements of cash flows and did not impact our results of operations or consolidated financial position. and Cash Payments, or ASU 2016-15. This update addresses the presentation and classification on the statement of cash flows for eight specific items, with the objective of reducing existing diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified. We adopted ASU 2016-15 on January 1, 2018. The adoption of ASU 2016-15 did not have a material impact on our consolidated statements of cash flows, results of operations or consolidated financial position. Share-Based Payment Accounting, or ASU 2016-09. The amendments in this update simplify several aspects of accounting for and reporting on share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. We adopted the amendments in ASU 2016-09 on January 1, 2017. We continue to estimate forfeitures expected to occur in determining stock compensation recognized in each period. We prospectively recognized tax benefits of 36, or 0.13 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2017 in our consolidated statements of income, which previously would have been recorded to additional paid-in capital. In addition, we prospectively recognized excess tax benefits as an operating activity within our consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2017. Finally, we retrospectively recognized taxes paid on our employees behalf through the withholding of common stock as a financing activity within our consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, or ASU 2016-01. The amendments in ASU 2016-01 change the accounting for non-consolidated equity investments that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting by requiring changes in fair value to be recognized in income. Additionally, ASU 2016-01 simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values requires entities to use the exit price when estimating the fair value of financial instruments and modifies various presentation disclosure requirements for financial instruments. We adopted ASU 2016-01 on January 1, 2018 as a cumulative-effect adjustment and reclassified 320 of unrealized gains on equity investments, net of tax, from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings on our consolidated balance sheet. Effective January 1, 2018, our results of operations include the changes in fair value of these financial instruments. Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes, or ASU 2019-12. The amendments in ASU 2019-12 remove certain exceptions to the general principles in ASC Topic 740. The amendments also clarify and amend existing guidance to improve consistent application. The amendments are effective for our annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2020, with early adoption permitted. The transition method (retrospective, modified retrospective, or prospective basis) related to the amendments depends on the applicable guidance, and all amendments for which there is no transition guidance specified are to be applied on a prospective basis. We are currently evaluating the effects the adoption of ASU 2019-12 will have on our consolidated financial statements. Losses. In May 2019, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2019-05, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Targeted Transition Relief. In April 2019, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2019-04, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments. In November 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-19, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses. These updates provide an option to irrevocably elect to measure certain individual financial assets at fair value instead of amortized cost and provide additional clarification and implementation guidance on certain aspects of the previously issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, or ASU 2016-13, and have the same effective date and transition requirements as ASU 2016-13. ASU 2016-13 introduces a current expected credit loss model for measuring expected credit losses for certain types of financial instruments In August 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee In January 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments - Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted: In December 2019, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2019-12, Income Taxes (Topic 740): In November 2019, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2019-11, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. held at the reporting date based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable supportable forecasts. ASU 2016-13 replaces the current incurred loss model for measuring expected credit losses, requires expected losses on available-for-sale debt securities to be recognized through an allowance for credit losses rather than as reductions in the amortized cost of the securities and provides for additional disclosure requirements. ASU 2016-13 requires a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings on the statement of financial position at the date of adoption and a prospective transition approach for debt securities for which an OTTI had been recognized before the adoption date. The effect of a prospective transition approach is to maintain the same amortized cost basis before and after the date of adoption. We adopted ASU 2016-13 on January 1, 2020, and the adoption did not have a material impact on our beginning retained earnings or on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Customer s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement that is a Service Contract, or ASU 2018-15. The amendments in ASU 2018-15 require implementation costs incurred by customers in cloud computing arrangements to be deferred and recognized over the term of the arrangement, if those costs would be capitalized by the customer in a software licensing arrangement under the internal-use software guidance. The amendments also require an entity to disclose the nature of its hosting arrangements and adhere to certain presentation requirements in its balance sheet, income statement and statement of cash flows. We adopted ASU 2018-15 on January 1, 2020 using a prospective approach for all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption, and the adoption did not have an impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. (Subtopic 715-20): Disclosure Framework Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans, or ASU 2018-14. The amendments in ASU 2018- 14 eliminate, add and modify certain disclosure requirements for employers that sponsor defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. The amendments are effective for our annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2020, with early adoption permitted. The guidance is to be applied on a retrospective basis to all periods presented. We are currently evaluating the effects the adoption of ASU 2018-14 will have on our disclosures. 944): Targeted Improvements to the Accounting for Long-Duration Contracts, or ASU 2018-12. The amendments in ASU 2018-12 make changes to a variety of areas to simplify or improve the existing recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure requirements for long-duration contracts issued by an insurance entity. The amendments require insurers to annually review the assumptions they make about their policyholders and update the liabilities for future policy benefits if the assumptions change. The amendments also simplify the amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs and add new disclosure requirements about the assumptions insurers use to measure their liabilities and how they may affect future cash flows. The amendments in ASU 2018-12 will be effective for our interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2021. The amendments related to the liability for future policy benefits for traditional and limited- payment contracts and deferred acquisition costs are to be applied to contracts in force as of the beginning of the earliest period presented, with an option to apply such amendments retrospectively with a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of the earliest period presented. The amendments for market risk benefits are to be applied retrospectively. We are currently evaluating the effects the adoption of ASU 2018-12 will have on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, and related disclosures. Goodwill Impairment, or ASU 2017-04. This update removes Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test under current guidance, which requires a hypothetical purchase price allocation. The new guidance requires an impairment charge to be recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit s fair value. Upon adoption, the guidance is to be applied prospectively. We adopted ASU 2017-04 on January 1, 2020, and the adoption did not have an impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. to have, a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows or financial statement disclosures. In August 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-15, Intangibles Goodwill and Other Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): In August 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-14, Compensation Retirement Benefits Defined Benefit Plans General In August 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-12, Financial Services Insurance (Topic In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for There were no other new accounting pronouncements that were issued or became effective during the year ended December 31, 2019 that had, or are expected Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. 3. Business Acquisitions Pending Acquisition of Beacon health organization in the country. Beacon services approximately forty million individuals across all fifty states. This acquisition aligns with our strategy to diversify into health services and deliver both integrated solutions and care delivery models that personalize care for people with complex and chronic conditions. The acquisition is expected to close during the first quarter of 2020 and is subject to standard closing conditions and customary approvals. Acquisition of America s 1st Choice related entities, or collectively, America s 1st Choice, a Medicare Advantage organization that offers HMO products, including Chronic Special Needs Plans and Dual-Eligible Special Needs Plans under its Freedom Health and Optimum HealthCare brands in Florida and its America s 1st Choice of South Carolina brand in South Carolina. At the time of acquisition, through its Medicare Advantage Plans, America s 1st Choice served approximately one hundred and thirty-five thousand members in twenty-five Florida and three South Carolina counties. This acquisition aligns with our plans for continued growth in the Medicare Advantage and Special Needs populations. Choice s assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including identifiable intangible assets. The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets acquired resulted in goodwill of 1,029 at December 31, 2018, of which 333 was tax deductible. All of the goodwill was allocated to our Government Business segment. Goodwill recognized from the acquisition of America s 1st Choice primarily relates to the future economic benefits arising from the assets acquired and is consistent with our stated intentions to strengthen our position and expand operations in the government sector to service Medicare Advantage and Special Needs populations. finite-lived customer relationships with amortization periods ranging from 7 to 13 years. The results of operations of America s 1st Choice are included in our consolidated financial statements within our Government Business segment for the periods following February 15, 2018. The pro forma effects of this acquisition for prior periods were not material to our consolidated results of operations. Acquisition of HealthSun forty thousand members in the state of Florida through its Medicare Advantage Plans, and which received a five-star rating from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. This acquisition aligns with our plans for continued growth in the Medicare Advantage and dual-eligible populations. The results of operations of HealthSun are included in our consolidated financial statements within our Government Business segment for the periods following December 21, 2017. The pro forma effects of this acquisition for prior periods were not material to our consolidated results of operations. Termination of Agreement and Plan of Merger with Cigna Corporation as of July 23, 2015, to acquire all outstanding shares of Cigna. On May 12, 2017, we delivered to Cigna a notice terminating the Cigna Merger Agreement. Both we and Cigna have commenced litigation against the other seeking various actions and damages, including Cigna s damage claim for a 1,850 termination fee pursuant to the terms of the Cigna Merger Agreement. For additional information, see Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Cigna Corporation Merger Litigation. On June 6, 2019, we announced our entrance into an agreement to acquire Beacon Health Options, Inc., or Beacon, the largest independently held behavioral On February 15, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Freedom Health, Inc., Optimum HealthCare, Inc., America s 1st Choice of South Carolina, Inc. and In accordance with FASB accounting guidance for business combinations, the consideration transferred was allocated to the fair value of America s 1st The fair value of the net assets acquired from America s 1st Choice includes 711 of other intangible assets at December 31, 2018, which primarily consist of On December 21, 2017, we completed our acquisition of HealthSun Health Plans, Inc., or HealthSun, which at the time of acquisition served approximately On July 24, 2015, we and Cigna Corporation, or Cigna, announced that we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or Cigna Merger Agreement, dated Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. 4. Investments Non-Credit December 31, 2019 Fixed maturity securities: Total fixed maturity securities 19,508 720 (24) (23) 20,181 (3) December 31, 2018 Fixed maturity securities: Total fixed maturity securities 17,380 173 (184) (190) 17,179 (3) A summary of current and long-term fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale, at December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: United States Government securities 524 4 (3) 525 Government sponsored securities 136 5 141 States, municipalities and political subdivisions, Corporate securities 8,870 339 (9) (15) 9,185 (3) Residential mortgage-backed securities 3,654 87 (6) (3) 3,732 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 84 2 86 Other securities 1,648 21 (3) (5) 1,661 United States Government securities 414 3 (1) 416 Government sponsored securities 108 1 (1) 108 States, municipalities and political subdivisions, Corporate securities 8,189 33 (170) (115) 7,937 (3) Residential mortgage-backed securities 2,769 31 (3) (47) 2,750 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 69 (2) 67 Other securities 1,115 14 (8) (5) 1,116 tax-exempt 4,592 262 (3) 4,851 tax-exempt 4,716 91 (3) (19) 4,785 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Unrealized Gross Unrealized Losses Less than 12 Months 12 Months or Greater Estimated Fair Value OTTIs Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Component of unrealized losses by length of time those securities have continuously been in an unrealized loss position. from contractual maturities because the issuers of the securities may have the right to prepay obligations. Less than 12 Months 12 Months or Greater (Securities are whole amounts) December 31, 2019 Fixed maturity securities: Total fixed maturity securities 1,029 2,179 (24) 549 902 (23) December 31, 2018 Fixed maturity securities: Total fixed maturity securities 2,833 5,849 (184) 2,801 4,946 (190) Due in one year or less 532 534 Due after one year through five years 5,367 5,503 Due after five years through ten years 5,633 5,864 Due after ten years 4,238 4,462 Mortgage-backed securities 3,738 3,818 Total fixed maturity securities 19,508 20,181 For fixed maturity securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2019 and 2018, the following table summarizes the aggregate fair values and gross The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2019, by contractual maturity, are shown below. Expected maturities may differ United States Government securities 27 250 (3) 2 1 Government sponsored securities 14 12 3 1 States, municipalities and political subdivisions, Corporate securities 386 558 (9) 224 286 (15) Residential mortgage-backed securities 321 635 (6) 189 237 (3) Commercial mortgage-backed securities 1 3 4 8 Other securities 166 415 (3) 113 358 (5) United States Government securities 5 47 25 79 (1) Government sponsored securities 8 11 24 31 (1) States, municipalities and political subdivisions, Corporate securities 2,185 4,503 (170) 1,220 2,072 (115) Residential mortgage-backed securities 259 383 (3) 816 1,458 (47) Commercial mortgage-backed securities 6 11 19 37 (2) Other securities 193 599 (8) 93 237 (5) tax-exempt 114 306 (3) 14 11 tax-exempt 177 295 (3) 604 1,032 (19) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Number of Securities Anthem, Inc. Estimated Fair Value Unrealized Number of Securities Estimated Fair Value Estimated Fair Value Unrealized Equity Securities A summary of current and long-term marketable equity securities at December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: Investment Income The major categories of net investment income for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 Equity Securities: Total 1,039 1,526 Fixed maturity securities 721 681 614 Equity securities 100 86 116 Cash equivalents 64 51 25 Other 149 193 153 Investment income 1,034 1,011 908 Investment expense (29) (41) (41) Net investment income 1,005 970 867 Exchange traded funds 44 2 Fixed maturity mutual funds 643 557 Common equity securities 267 654 Private equity securities 85 313 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. 2019 2018 2017 Investment Gains and 2017 are as follows: 2019 2018 2017 Net realized gains (losses): Other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income: Change in net unrealized gains (losses) on investments: Net realized gains (losses) on investments, other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized 2019 2018 Net realized gains (losses) recognized on equity securities 63 (199) Less: Net realized (gains) losses recognized on equity securities sold during the period (39) 57 Unrealized gains (losses) recognized in income on equity securities still held at December 31 24 (142) Net realized investment gains losses and the net change in unrealized appreciation depreciation on investments for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 The gains and losses related to equity securities for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: in income and change in net unrealized gains (losses) on investments 764 (647) 340 Fixed maturity securities: Net realized gains (losses) from sales of fixed maturity securities 66 (31) 82 Equity securities: Net realized gains (losses) on equity securities 63 (199) 123 Other investments: Net realized gains (losses) from sales of other investments 2 27 (5) Fixed maturity securities (13) (9) (4) Equity securities (15) Other investments (34) (17) (14) Fixed maturity securities 874 (529) 156 Equity securities 111 Other investments 5 (10) Deferred income tax (expense) benefit (194) 106 (84) Gross realized gains from sales 125 85 137 Gross realized losses from sales (59) (116) (55) Gross realized gains 147 77 140 Gross realized losses (84) (276) (17) Gross realized gains from sales 3 27 Gross realized losses from sales (1) (5) Net realized gains (losses) on investments 131 (203) 200 Other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income (47) (26) (33) Total change in net unrealized gains (losses) on investments 874 (524) 257 Change in net unrealized gains (losses) on investments 680 (418) 173 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. liquidity needs. In achieving this goal, assets may be sold to take advantage of market conditions or other investment opportunities as well as tax considerations. Sales will generally produce realized gains and losses. In the ordinary course of business, we may sell securities at a loss for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to: (i) changes in the investment environment (ii) expectations that the fair value could deteriorate further (iii) desire to reduce exposure to an issuer or an industry (iv) changes in credit quality or (v) changes in expected cash flow. ended December 31 are as follows: consistent and systematic process for recognizing impairments on securities that sustain other-than-temporary declines in value. We have established a committee responsible for the impairment review process. The decision to impair a security incorporates both quantitative criteria and qualitative information. The impairment review process considers a number of factors including, but not limited to: (i) the extent to which the fair value is less than book value, (ii) the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, (iii) our intent and ability to retain impaired investments for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value, (iv) our intent to sell or the likelihood that we will need to sell a fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, (v) whether the debtor is current on interest and principal payments, (vi) the reasons for the decline in value (i.e., credit event compared to liquidity, general credit spread widening, currency exchange rate or interest rate factors) and (vii) general market conditions and industry or sector specific factors. For securities that are deemed to be other- than-temporarily impaired, the security is adjusted to fair value and the resulting losses are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. The new cost basis of the impaired security is not increased for future recoveries in fair value. bond markets. There were no individually material OTTI losses on investments by issuer during 2019, 2018 or 2017. and the level of uncertainty related to changes in the value of investment securities, it is possible that changes in these risk factors in the near term could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or shareholders equity. was recognized in other comprehensive income, was not material for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 or 2017. income during the years then ended. in exchange for an ownership interest in the related entities. under requirements of regulatory authorities. 2019 2018 2017 Proceeds 8,351 8,380 9,780 Gross realized gains 125 85 137 Gross realized losses (59) (116) (55) A primary objective in the management of our fixed maturity and equity portfolios is to maximize total return relative to underlying liabilities and respective Proceeds from sales, maturities, calls or redemptions of fixed maturity securities and the related gross realized gains and gross realized losses for the years A significant judgment in the valuation of investments is the determination of when an other-than-temporary decline in value has occurred. We follow a Other-than-temporary impairments recorded in 2019, 2018 and 2017 were primarily the result of the continued credit deterioration on specific issuers in the Investment securities are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, market and credit. Due to the level of risk associated with certain investment securities The changes in the amount of the credit component of OTTI losses on fixed maturity securities recognized in income, for which a portion of the OTTI losses At December 31, 2019 and 2018, there were no investments that exceeded 10% of shareholders equity and no fixed maturity investments that did not produce As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had committed approximately 999 and 873, respectively, to future capital calls from various third-party investments At December 31, 2019 and 2018, securities with carrying values of approximately 505 and 487, respectively, were deposited by our insurance subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Securities Lending Programs respectively. The value of the collateral represented 103% and 102% of the market value of the securities on loan at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Securities lending transactions United States Government securities 59 Other securities 1 The fair value of the collateral received at the time of the securities lending transactions amounted to 351 and 604 at December 31, 2019 and 2018, The remaining contractual maturities of our securities lending transactions at December 31, 2019 is as follows: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Overnight and Continuous 5. Derivative Financial Instruments embedded derivatives and warrants. We also enter into master netting agreements which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions. At December 31, 2019 we had received collateral of 22 related to our derivative financial instruments. As of December 31, 2018 we had posted collateral of 1 related to our derivative financial instruments. 2018 is as follows: December 31, 2019 Hedging instruments Interest rate swaps - fixed to floating 1,200 Other assets other liabilities 22 (1) Non-hedging instruments Interest rate swaps 1 Equity securities Futures 134 Equity securities 1 Total derivatives 1,335 Total derivatives 23 (1) Amounts netted (1) 1 Net derivatives 22 December 31, 2018 Hedging instruments Interest rate swaps - fixed to floating 1,200 Other assets other liabilities 7 (11) Non-hedging instruments Interest rate swaps 164 Equity securities 4 (1) Options 100 Other assets other liabilities Futures 415 Equity securities 5 (5) Total derivatives 1,879 Total derivatives 16 (17) Amounts netted (14) 14 Net derivatives 2 (3) We primarily invest in the following types of derivative financial instruments: interest rate swaps, futures, forward contracts, put and call options, swaptions, A summary of the aggregate contractual or notional amounts and estimated fair values related to derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2019 and Subtotal non-hedging 135 Subtotal non-hedging 1 Subtotal non-hedging 679 Subtotal non-hedging 9 (6) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Contractual Notional Amount Balance Sheet Location Anthem, Inc. Estimated Fair Value Asset (Liability) Fair Value Hedges rates. The floating rates payable on all of our fair value hedges are benchmarked to the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR. A summary of our outstanding fair value hedges at December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: Cash Flow Hedges payments on anticipated future financings. During 2019, swaps in the notional amount of 425 were terminated. We paid an aggregate of 35 to the swap counter parties upon termination. December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2019, the total amount of amortization over the next twelve months for all cash flow hedges is estimated to increase interest expense by approximately 15. No amounts were excluded from effectiveness testing. Interest rate swap 2018 50 50 4.101 % September 1, 2027 Interest rate swap 2018 450 450 3.300 January 15, 2023 Interest rate swap 2018 90 90 4.350 August 15, 2020 Interest rate swap 2017 50 50 4.350 August 15, 2020 Interest rate swap 2015 200 200 4.350 August 15, 2020 Interest rate swap 2014 150 150 4.350 August 15, 2020 Interest rate swap 2013 10 10 4.350 August 15, 2020 Interest rate swap 2012 200 200 4.350 August 15, 2020 Total notional amount outstanding 1,200 1,200 Current portion of long term-debt 1,598 849 22 7 Long-term debt 17,787 17,217 (1) (11) Balance Sheet Classification in Which Hedged We have entered into various interest rate swap contracts to convert a portion of our interest rate exposure on our long-term debt from fixed rates to floating The following amounts were recorded on our consolidated balance sheets related to cumulative basis adjustments for fair value hedges at December 31, 2019 We have entered into a series of forward starting pay fixed interest rate swaps with the objective of eliminating the variability of cash flows in the interest The unrecognized loss for all expired and terminated cash flow hedges included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, was 262 and 246 at Type of Fair Value Hedges Item is Included Carrying Amount of Hedged Liability 2019 2018 2019 2018 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Outstanding Notional Amount Received Expiration Date 2019 2018 Anthem, Inc. Interest Rate Cumulative Amount of Fair Value Hedging Adjustment Included in the Carrying Amount of the Hedged Liability Income Statement Relationship of Fair Value and Cash Flow Hedging statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: Year ended December 31, 2019 Year ended December 31, 2018 Year ended December 31, 2017 2019 2018 2017 Total amount of income or expense in the income statement in which the effects of fair value or cash flow hedges are recorded 114 (746) (180) (753) 145 (739)  Gain (loss) on fair value hedging relationships:  Loss on cash flow hedging relationships: Interest rate swaps: Forward starting pay fixed swaps: A summary of the effect of cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: A summary of the relationship between the effects of fair value and cash flow hedges on the total amount of income and expense presented in our consolidated Forward starting pay fixed swaps (35) Interest expense (15) Forward starting pay fixed swaps (33) Interest expense (14) Forward starting pay fixed swaps (112) Interest expense (7) Forward starting pay fixed swaps Hedged items 2 Derivatives designated as hedging instruments (2) Amount of loss reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net income (15) (14) (7) Amount of loss reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net income due to ineffectiveness and missed forecasted transactions (7) Loss Type of Cash Flow Hedge Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Gains (Losses) on Net Realized Instruments Classification and Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in Income on Fair Value and Cash Flow Hedging Comprehensive Income (Loss) Recognized Hedge Loss Anthem, Inc. Interest Expense Income Statement Net realized gains (losses) on financial Gains (Losses) on Net Realized Instruments Comprehensive Loss from Accumulated Reclassification Relationships instruments (7) Location of Interest Expense Gains (Losses) on Net Realized Instruments Reclassified from Comprehensive Accumulated Hedge Loss Interest Expense Non-Hedging Derivatives 6. Fair Value to measure their fair value. Level inputs, as defined by FASB guidance for fair value measurements and disclosures, are as follows: in the consolidated balance sheets: par value with specified yield rates. Due to the high ratings and short-term nature of the funds, we designate all cash equivalents as Level I. These fair values are obtained primarily from third-party pricing services, which generally use Level I or Level II inputs for the determination of fair value to facilitate fair value measurements and disclosures. Level II securities primarily include corporate securities, securities from states, municipalities and political subdivisions, mortgage-backed securities, United States Government securities and certain other asset-backed securities. For securities not actively traded, the pricing services may use quoted market prices of comparable instruments or discounted cash flow analyses, incorporating inputs that are currently observable in the markets for similar securities. We have controls Year ended December 31, 2019 Year ended December 31, 2018 Year ended December 31, 2017 Level I Inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets at the measurement date. Level Input: Input Definition: A summary of the effect of non-hedging derivatives on our consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used The following methods, assumptions and inputs were used to determine the fair value of each class of the following assets and liabilities recorded at fair value Cash equivalents: Cash equivalents primarily consist of highly rated money market funds with maturities of three months or less, and are purchased daily at Fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale: Fair values of available-for-sale fixed maturity securities are based on quoted market prices, where available. Interest rate swaps Net realized gains (losses) on financial instruments 1 Options Net realized gains (losses) on financial instruments (8) Futures Net realized gains (losses) on financial instruments (10) Interest rate swaps Net realized gains (losses) on financial instruments 14 Options Net realized gains (losses) on financial instruments 1 Futures Net realized gains (losses) on financial instruments 8 Interest rate swaps Net realized gains (losses) on financial instruments (9) Options Net realized gains (losses) on financial instruments (36) Futures Net realized gains (losses) on financial instruments (3) Total (17) Total 23 Total (48) Type of Non-hedging Derivatives Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level I that are observable for the asset or liability through corroboration with market data at the measurement date. Unobservable inputs that reflect management s best estimate of what market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Income Statement Location of Gain (Loss) Recognized Derivative Gain (Loss) Recognized in place to review the pricing services qualifications and procedures used to determine fair values. In addition, we periodically review the pricing services pricing methodologies, data sources and pricing inputs to ensure the fair values obtained are reasonable. Inputs that are often used in the valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to, broker quotes, benchmark yields, credit spreads, default rates and prepayment speeds. We also have certain fixed maturity securities, primarily corporate debt securities, that are designated Level III securities. For these securities, the valuation methodologies may incorporate broker quotes or discounted cash flow analyses using assumptions for inputs such as expected cash flows, benchmark yields, credit spreads, default rates and prepayment speeds that are not observable in the markets. quoted market prices for the identical security are not always available, and the fair value is estimated by reference to similar securities for which quoted prices are available. These securities are designated Level II. We also have certain equity securities, including private equity securities, for which the fair value is estimated based on each security s current condition and future cash flow projections. Such securities are designated Level III. The fair values of these private equity securities are generally based on either broker quotes or discounted cash flow projections using assumptions for inputs such as the weighted-average cost of capital, long-term revenue growth rates and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and or revenue multiples that are not observable in the markets. Level I securities, as fair values are based on quoted market prices. primarily from third-party pricing services, which generally use Level I or Level II inputs for the determination of fair value, to facilitate fair value measurements and disclosures. independently verify prices provided by the counterparties using valuation models that incorporate market observable inputs for similar derivative transactions. Derivatives are designated as Level II securities. assets not defined above (see Note 10, Retirement Benefits, for fair values of benefit plan assets): value. Fair values of common collective trusts that invest in securities are valued at the NAV of the shares held, where the trust applies fair value measurements to the underlying investments to determine the NAV. statements of the partnership. based on the fair value of the underlying investments of the account. Department of Labor Regulation 2520.103-12 entity, or DOL 103-12 trust, as reported in the audited financial statements of the trust, where the trustee applies fair value measurements to the underlying investments of the trust. Equity securities: Fair values of equity securities are generally designated as Level I and are based on quoted market prices. For certain equity securities, Other invested assets, current: Other invested assets, current include securities held in rabbi trusts that are classified as trading. These securities are designated Securities lending collateral: Fair values of securities lending collateral are based on quoted market prices, where available. These fair values are obtained Derivatives: Fair values are based on the quoted market prices by the financial institution that is the counterparty to the derivative transaction. We In addition, the following methods and assumptions were used to determine the fair value of each class of pension benefit plan assets and other benefit plan Mutual funds: Fair values are based on quoted market prices, which represent the net asset value, or NAV, of the shares held. Common and collective trusts: Fair values of common collective trusts that replicate traded money market funds are based on cost, which approximates fair Alternative investments: Fair values are estimated based on the plan s proportionate share of the undistributed partners capital as reported in audited financial Contract with insurance company: Fair value of the contract in the insurance company general investment account is determined by the insurance company Investment in DOL 103-12 trust: Fair value is based on the plan s proportionate share of the fair value of investments held by the trust, qualified as a Life insurance contracts: Fair value is based on the cash surrender value of the policies as reported by the insurer. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Level I Level II Level III Total December 31, 2019 Assets: Cash equivalents 2,015 2,015 Fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale: Total fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale 19,869 312 20,181 Equity securities: Total equity securities 280 674 85 1,039 Other invested assets, current 13 13 Securities lending collateral 353 353 Derivatives 23 23 Total assets 2,308 20,919 397 23,624 Liabilities: Derivatives (1) (1) Total liabilities (1) (1) December 31, 2018 Assets: Cash equivalents 1,815 1,815 Fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale: Total fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale 2 16,867 310 17,179 Equity securities: Total equity securities 603 610 313 1,526 Other invested assets, current 21 21 Securities lending collateral 314 290 604 Derivatives 16 16 Total assets 2,755 17,783 623 21,161 Liabilities: Derivatives (17) (17) Total liabilities (17) (17) A summary of fair value measurements by level for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as United States Government securities 525 525 Government sponsored securities 141 141 States, municipalities and political subdivisions, tax-exempt 4,851 4,851 Corporate securities 8,882 303 9,185 Residential mortgage-backed securities 3,730 2 3,732 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 86 86 Other securities 1,654 7 1,661 Exchange traded funds 44 44 Fixed maturity mutual funds 643 643 Common equity securities 236 31 267 Private equity securities 85 85 United States Government securities 416 416 Government sponsored securities 108 108 States, municipalities and political subdivisions, tax-exempt 4,785 4,785 Corporate securities 2 7,648 287 7,937 Residential mortgage-backed securities 2,744 6 2,750 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 67 67 Other securities 1,099 17 1,116 Exchange traded funds 2 2 Fixed maturity mutual funds 557 557 Common equity securities 601 53 654 Private equity securities 313 313 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. in active markets to estimate fair values for recognition and disclosure purposes. Where quoted market prices in active markets are not available, fair values are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, broker quotes or other valuation techniques. These techniques are significantly affected by our assumptions, December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: Year ended December 31, 2019 Beginning balance at January 1, 2019 287 6 17 313 623 Total gains (losses): Purchases 122 2 65 189 Sales (22) (79) (101) Settlements (71) (2) (6) (79) Transfers into Level III 3 2 5 Transfers out of Level III (9) (2) (9) (210) (230) Ending balance at December 31, 2019 303 2 7 85 397 Change in unrealized losses included in net income related to assets still held  Year ended December 31, 2018 Beginning balance at January 1, 2018 229 5 16 287 537 Total (losses) gains: Purchases 120 2 18 290 430 Sales (33) (1) (35) (69) Settlements (88) (1) (10) (99) Transfers into Level III 65 9 74 Transfers out of Level III (2) (15) (17) Ending balance at December 31, 2018 287 6 17 313 623 Change in unrealized losses included in net income related to assets still held  Year ended December 31, 2017 Beginning balance at January 1, 2017 239 11 43 188 481 Total (losses) gains: Purchases 88 4 36 89 217 Sales (48) (5) (1) (1) (55) Settlements (64) (2) (7) (73) Transfers into Level III 15 3 15 33 Transfers out of Level III (3) (6) (70) (79) Ending balance at December 31, 2017 229 5 16 287 537 Change in unrealized losses included in net income related to assets still held There were no individually material transfers into or out of Level III during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 or 2017. Our valuation policy is determined by members of our treasury and accounting departments. Whenever possible, our policy is to obtain quoted market prices Recognized in net income (7) (6) (13) Recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss 3 3 Recognized in net income 1 (229) (228) Recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss (5) (5) Recognized in net income (1) (1) Recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss 3 11 14 at December 31, 2019 6 6 at December 31, 2018 30 30 at December 31, 2017 (3) (3) A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using Level III inputs for the years ended Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Corporate Securities Anthem, Inc. Residential Mortgage- Securities Securities Securities Total including discount rates and estimates of future cash flows. Potential taxes and other transaction costs are not considered in estimating fair values. Our valuation policy is generally to obtain quoted prices for each security from third-party pricing services, which are derived through recently reported trades for identical or similar securities making adjustments through the reporting date based upon available market observable information. As we are responsible for the determination of fair value, we perform analysis on the prices received from the pricing services to determine whether the prices are reasonable estimates of fair value. This analysis is performed by our internal treasury personnel who are familiar with our investment portfolios, the pricing services engaged and the valuation techniques and inputs used. Our analysis includes procedures such as a review of month-to-month price fluctuations and price comparisons to secondary pricing services. There were no adjustments to quoted market prices obtained from the pricing services during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 or 2017. are subject to fair value adjustments only in certain circumstances. As disclosed in Note 3, Business Acquisitions, we completed our acquisition of America s 1st Choice on February 15, 2018. The net assets acquired in our acquisition of America s 1st Choice and resulting goodwill and other intangible assets were recorded at fair value primarily using Level III inputs. The majority of America s 1st Choice assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their carrying values as of the respective date of acquisition, as their carrying values approximated their fair values due to their short-term nature. The fair values of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in our acquisition of America s 1st Choice were internally estimated based on the income approach. The income approach estimates fair value based on the present value of the cash flows that the assets could be expected to generate in the future. We developed internal estimates for the expected cash flows and discount rate in the present value calculation. Other than the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in our acquisition of America s 1st Choice described above, there were no other material assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis during the years ended December 31, 2019 or 2018. values for certain other financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate fair value, whether or not such values are recognized in the consolidated balance sheets. instruments, such as policy liabilities, are excluded from the fair value disclosures. Therefore, the fair value amounts cannot be aggregated to determine our underlying economic value. receivables, income taxes receivable, unearned income, accounts payable and accrued expenses, security trades pending payable, securities lending payable and certain other current liabilities approximate fair value because of the short-term nature of these items. These assets and liabilities are not listed in the table below. consolidated balance sheets: controlled corporations, as well as the cash surrender value of corporate-owned life insurance policies. Investments in limited partnerships, joint ventures and other non-controlled corporations are carried at our share in the entities undistributed earnings, which approximates fair value. The carrying value of corporate-owned life insurance policies represents the cash surrender value as reported by the respective insurer, which approximates fair value. prices were available, on the current market interest rates estimated to be available to us for debt of similar terms and remaining maturities. rates at market value. similar debt, or, if no quoted market prices are available, on the current market observable rates estimated to be available to us for debt of similar terms and remaining maturities. Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis that is, the instruments are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis but In addition to the preceding disclosures on assets recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets, FASB guidance also requires the disclosure of fair Non-financial instruments such as real estate, property and equipment, other current assets, deferred income taxes, intangible assets and certain financial The carrying amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets for cash, accrued investment income, premium receivables, self-funded receivables, other The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument that is recorded at its carrying value on the Other invested assets, long-term: Other invested assets, long-term primarily include our investments in limited partnerships, joint ventures and other non- Short-term borrowings: The fair value of our short-term borrowings is based on quoted market prices for the same or similar debt, or if no quoted market Long-term debt - commercial paper: The carrying amount for commercial paper approximates fair value, as the underlying instruments have variable interest Long-term debt - senior unsecured notes and surplus notes: The fair values of our notes are based on quoted market prices in active markets for the same or Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. the convertible debentures trade. at December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: Level I Level II Level III Total December 31, 2019 Assets: Liabilities:  December 31, 2018 Assets: Liabilities: Long-term debt convertible debentures: The fair value of our convertible debentures is based on the quoted market price in the active private market in which A summary of the estimated fair values by level of each class of financial instrument that is recorded at its carrying value on our consolidated balance sheets Other invested assets, long-term 4,228 4,228 4,228 Debt: Other invested assets, long-term 3,726 3,726 3,726 Debt: Short-term borrowings 700 700 700 Commercial paper 400 400 400 Notes 18,840 20,470 20,470 Convertible debentures 145 904 904 Short-term borrowings 1,145 1,145 1,145 Commercial paper 697 697 697 Notes 17,178 17,145 17,145 Convertible debentures 191 1,030 1,030 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Estimated Fair Value 7. Income Taxes December 31, 2019 and 2018. 2019 2018 Deferred tax assets relating to: Deferred tax liabilities relating to: Net deferred tax liability 2,227 1,960 2019 2018 2017 Current tax expense: Total current tax expense 1,103 1,206 1,395 Deferred tax expense (benefit) 75 112 (1,274) Total income tax expense 1,178 1,318 121 The components of deferred income taxes at December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: Included as a component of the state deferred tax liabilities above is a net valuation allowance for states net operating losses of 45 and 95, respectively, at Significant components of the provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 consist of the following: Retirement benefits 211 226 Accrued expenses 280 301 Insurance reserves 114 96 Net operating loss carryforwards 4 7 Bad debt reserves 82 104 State income tax 11 32 Deferred compensation 22 20 Unrealized losses on securities 41 Other 77 72 Total deferred tax assets 801 899 Investment basis difference 78 52 Unrealized gains on securities 153 Intangible assets: Retirement benefits 194 183 Debt discount 19 27 State deferred tax 77 105 Depreciation and amortization 48 47 Other 163 165 Total deferred tax liabilities 3,028 2,859 Federal 1,019 1,128 1,356 State and local 84 78 39 Trademarks and state Medicaid licenses 1,529 1,529 Customer, provider and hospital relationships 239 290 Internally developed software and other amortization differences 528 461 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. credits and true up of prior years tax. Such items are included in multiple lines in the following rate reconciliation table on a net of federal tax basis. the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: the HIP Fee payment. On December 22, 2017, the federal government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including, but not limited to, reducing the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and modifying or limiting many business deductions. At December 31, 2018, we completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and there was no material change to our 2017 provisional amount. In addition we reclassified, for our interim and annual reporting periods beginning on January 1, 2018, 91 of stranded tax effects from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings on our consolidated balance sheets. recorded related to the remeasurement of our deferred tax balance as a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The HIP Fee payment was suspended for 2017. included in the amounts described in the following paragraph. and 2018, respectively. Also included in the table above, at December 31, 2019, is 2 that would be recognized as an adjustment to additional paid-in capital, which would not affect our effective tax rate. In 2019 2018 2017 Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount at statutory rate 1,257 21.0 % 1,064 21.0 % 1,387 35.0 % State and local income taxes net of federal tax expense benefit 138 2.3 63 1.2 (2) (0.1) Tax exempt interest and dividends received deduction (24) (0.4) (27) (0.5) (58) (1.4) HIP Fee 324 6.4 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (28) (0.6) (1,108) (27.9) Other, net (193) (3.2) (78) (1.5) (98) (2.5) Total income tax expense 1,178 19.7 % 1,318 26.0 % 121 3.1 % 2019 2018 Balance at January 1 241 190 Additions based on: Reductions based on: Balance at December 31 146 241 State and local current tax expense is reported gross of federal benefit, and includes amounts related to audit settlements, uncertain tax positions, state tax A reconciliation of income tax expense recorded in the consolidated statements of income and amounts computed at the statutory federal income tax rate for During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized income tax expense of 324, or 1.23 per diluted share, as a result of the non-tax deductibility of During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized an income tax benefit of 1,108, or 4.14 per diluted share, as a result of the provisional amount The change in the carrying amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits from uncertain tax positions for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as The table above excludes interest, net of related tax benefits, which is treated as income tax expense (benefit) under our accounting policy. The interest is The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would impact our effective tax rate in future periods, if recognized, was 140 and 237 at December 31, 2019 Tax positions related to current year 1 35 Tax positions related to prior years 50 Tax positions related to prior years (63) (31) Settlements with taxing authorities (33) (3) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. addition to the contingent liabilities included in the table above, during 2017 we filed protective state income tax refund claims of approximately 310. There were no equivalent protective state income tax refund claims filed in 2019 or 2018. the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we recognized a net interest expense of 15 and 3, respectively. We had accrued approximately 26 and 37 for the payment of interest at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. and local authorities. In addition, we continue to discuss certain industry issues with the IRS. As a result of these examinations and discussions, we have recorded amounts for uncertain tax positions. It is anticipated that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will change in the next twelve months due to possible settlements of audits and changes in temporary items. However, the ultimate resolution of these items is dependent on the completion of negotiations with various taxing authorities. While it is difficult to determine when other tax settlements will actually occur, it is reasonably possible that one could occur in the next twelve months and our unrecognized tax benefits could change within a range of approximately (9) to (102). IRS of the accuracy of tax returns prior to filing, thereby reducing or eliminating the need for post-filing examinations. expire in the years 2032 through 2037. During 2019, 2018 and 2017, federal income taxes paid totaled 1,403, 738 and 1,503, respectively. 8. Property and Equipment improvements for 2019, 2018 and 2017 was 528, 528 and 490, respectively, which includes amortization expense on computer software, both purchased and internally developed, for 2019, 2018 and 2017 of 450, 465 and 435, respectively. Capitalized costs related to the internal development of software of 3,939 and 3,226 at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, are reported with computer software. 2019 2018 Computer software, purchased and internally developed 4,314 3,532 Computer equipment, furniture and other equipment 1,264 1,266 Leasehold improvements 715 563 Building and improvements 169 169 Land and improvements 17 18 Property and equipment, gross 6,479 5,548 Accumulated depreciation and amortization (3,346) (2,813) Property and equipment, net 3,133 2,735 For the year ended December 31, 2019, tax loss contingencies recorded in a prior year were released therefore, we recognized a net interest benefit of 11. For As of December 31, 2019, as further described below, certain tax years remain open to examination by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and various state We are a member of the IRS Compliance Assurance Process, or CAP. The objective of CAP is to reduce taxpayer burden and uncertainty while assuring the As of December 31, 2019, the IRS examination of our 2019 and 2017 tax years continues to be in process. In certain states, we pay premium taxes in lieu of state income taxes. Premium taxes are reported in selling, general and administrative expense. At December 31, 2019, we had unused federal tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately 8 to offset future taxable income. The loss carryforwards A summary of property and equipment at December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: Depreciation expense for 2019, 2018 and 2017 was 147, 124 and 111, respectively. Amortization expense on computer software and leasehold Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. 9. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets acquisition, see Note 3, Business Acquisitions . adjustments for HealthSun as well as certain reclassifications made for changes in segment reporting. For additional information, see Note 19, Segment Information . and 2017. We perform these annual impairment tests during the fourth quarter. FASB guidance also requires interim impairment testing to be performed when potential impairment indicators exist. These tests involve the use of estimates related to the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives and require a significant degree of management judgment and the use of subjective assumptions. Qualitative testing procedures include assessing our financial performance, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, various asset specific factors and entity specific events. For quantitative testing, the fair values are estimated using the projected income and market valuation approaches, incorporating Level III internal estimates for inputs, including, but not limited to, revenue projections, income projections, cash flows and discount rates. We did not incur any impairment losses in 2019, 2018 or 2017, as the estimated fair values of our reporting units were substantially in excess of their carrying values. Balance as of January 1, 2018 11,818 7,402 11 19,231 Acquisitions 1,285 1,285 Adjustments (267) 266 (11) (12) Balance as of December 31, 2018 11,551 8,953 20,504 Adjustments (674) 670 (4) Balance as of December 31, 2019 11,551 8,279 670 20,500 Accumulated impairment as of December 31, 2019 (41) (41) Intangible assets with finite lives: Total 5,080 (3,696) 1,384 5,075 (3,358) 1,717 Intangible assets with indefinite lives: Total 7,290 7,290 7,290 7,290 Other intangible assets 12,370 (3,696) 8,674 12,365 (3,358) 9,007 A summary of the change in the carrying amount of goodwill for our segments (see Note 19, Segment Information ) for 2019 and 2018 is as follows: The increase in goodwill in 2018 was primarily due to the acquisition of America s 1st Choice in February 2018. For additional information regarding this Goodwill adjustments in 2019 include certain reclassifications made for changes in segment reporting. The adjustments in 2018 include measurement period As required by FASB guidance, we completed annual impairment tests of existing goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives during 2019, 2018 The components of other intangible assets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: Customer relationships 4,500 (3,469) 1,031 4,495 (3,185) 1,310 Provider and hospital relationships 228 (98) 130 228 (85) 143 Other 352 (129) 223 352 (88) 264 Blue Cross and Blue Shield and other trademarks 6,299 6,299 6,299 6,299 State Medicaid licenses 991 991 991 991 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Carrying Amount Anthem, Inc. Accumulated Amortization Commercial and Specialty Carrying Amount Government Business Other Total Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Carrying Amount 162 and 2024, 85. 10. Retirement Benefits companies that participate in these plans. Effective January 1, 2006, benefits were curtailed, with the result that most participants stopped accruing benefits but continue to earn interest on benefits accrued prior to the curtailment. Certain participants subject to collective bargaining and certain other participants who met grandfathering rules continued to accrue benefits. Participants who did not receive credits and or benefit accruals were included in the Anthem Cash Balance Plan A, while employees who were still receiving credits and or benefits participated in the Anthem Cash Balance Plan B. Effective January 1, 2019, benefits under the Anthem Cash Balance Plan B were curtailed. All grandfathered participants no longer have pay credits added to their accounts but continue to earn interest on existing account balances. Participants continue to earn years of pension service for vesting purposes. Several pension plans acquired through various corporate mergers and acquisitions were merged into these plans in prior years. of California who are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Effective January 1, 2007, benefits were curtailed under the BCC Plan with the result that no Blue Cross of California employees hired or rehired after December 31, 2006 are eligible to participate in the BCC Plan. contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the minimum funding requirements set forth in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, and in accordance with income tax regulations, plus such additional amounts as are necessary to provide assets sufficient to meet the benefits to be paid to plan participants. benefits, which include postretirement health and welfare benefits including medical, vision and dental benefits offered to certain employees. Calculations were computed using assumptions at the December 31 measurement dates. Pension Benefits Other Benefits 2019 2018 2019 2018 Benefit obligation at beginning of year 1,743 1,872 431 524 Service cost 8 1 1 Interest cost 62 55 15 15 Actuarial loss (gain) 200 (70) 5 (57) Benefits paid (125) (122) (29) (52) Benefit obligation at end of year 1,880 1,743 423 431 As of December 31, 2019, the estimated amortization expense for each of the five succeeding years is as follows: 2020, 290 2021, 244 2022, 195 2023, We sponsor various non-contributory employee defined benefit plans through certain subsidiaries. The Anthem Cash Balance Plan A and the Anthem Cash Balance Plan B are cash balance pension plans covering certain eligible employees of the affiliated The Employees Retirement Plan of Blue Cross of California, or the BCC Plan, is a defined benefit pension plan that covers eligible employees of Blue Cross All of the plans assets consist primarily of equity securities, fixed maturity securities, investment funds and cash. The funding policies for all plans are to We use a December 31 measurement date for determining benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets. The following tables disclose consolidated pension benefits, which include the defined benefit pension plans described above, and consolidated other The reconciliation of the benefit obligation is as follows: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. loss into net periodic benefit costs over the next year are 22 and 0, respectively. The estimated net actuarial loss and prior service credit for postretirement benefit plans that will be reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit costs over the next year are 0 and 7, respectively. obligation was also in excess of plan assets. Such plans had a combined projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets of 104, 102 and 39, respectively. Pension Benefits Other Benefits 2019 2018 2019 2018 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 1,818 2,012 336 356 Actual return on plan assets 329 (76) 55 (17) Employer contributions 4 4 5 49 Benefits paid (125) (122) (29) (52) Fair value of plan assets at end of year 2,026 1,818 367 336 Pension Benefits Other Benefits 2019 2018 2019 2018 Noncurrent assets 212 134 Current liabilities (6) (6) Noncurrent liabilities (60) (53) (56) (95) Net amount at December 31 146 75 (56) (95) Pension Benefits Other Benefits 2019 2018 2019 2018 Net actuarial loss 734 751 25 58 Prior service cost (credit) 1 1 (19) (34) Net amount before tax at December 31 735 752 6 24 Pension Benefits Other Benefits 2019 2018 2019 2018 Discount rate 3.11% 4.15% 2.93% 4.04% Rate of compensation increase 3.00% 3.00% 3.00% 3.00% Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.33% 7.44% 7.00% 7.00% The changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: The net amount included in the consolidated balance sheets is as follows: The net amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss that have not been recognized as components of net periodic benefit costs are as follows: The estimated net actuarial loss and prior service cost for the defined benefit pension plans that will be reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive The accumulated benefit obligation for the defined benefit pension plans was 1,878 and 1,742 at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2019, certain pension plans had accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets. For those same plans, the projected benefit The weighted-average assumptions used in calculating the benefit obligations for all plans are as follows: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. exceeded the service cost and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost for certain of our plans. benefits at our December 31, 2019 measurement date was 7.00% for 2020 with a gradual decline to 4.50% by the year 2028. The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used to measure the expected cost of post-Medicare (those who are currently eligible for Medicare benefits) other benefits at our December 31, 2019 measurement date was 6.00% for 2020 with a gradual decline to 4.50% by the year 2028. These estimated trend rates are subject to change in the future. The healthcare cost trend rate assumption affects the amounts reported. For example, an increase in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point would increase the postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2019 by 23 and would increase service and interest costs by 1. Conversely, a decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point would decrease the postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2019 by 20 and would decrease service and interest costs by 1. and levels of capitalization to maximize long-term return for a prudent level of risk. The 2019 2018 2017 Pension Benefits Service cost 8 10 Interest cost 62 55 66 Expected return on assets (138) (147) (147) Recognized actuarial loss 17 22 22 Settlement loss 9 5 7 Net periodic benefit credit (50) (57) (42) Other Benefits Service cost 1 1 1 Interest cost 15 15 21 Expected return on assets (22) (24) (23) Recognized actuarial loss 2 3 11 Amortization of prior service credit (12) (12) (13) Net periodic benefit credit (16) (17) (3) 2019 2018 2017 Pension Benefits Discount rate 4.15% 3.44% 3.77% Rate of compensation increase 3.00% 3.00% 3.00% Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.44% 7.83% 7.95% Other Benefits Discount rate 4.04% 3.42% 3.82% Rate of compensation increase 3.00% 3.00% 3.00% Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.00% 7.00% 7.00% The components of net periodic benefit credit included in the consolidated statements of income are as follows: During the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we incurred total settlement losses of 9, 5 and 7, respectively, as lump-sum payments The weighted-average assumptions used in calculating the net periodic benefit cost for all plans are as follows: The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used to measure the expected cost of pre-Medicare (those who are not currently eligible for Medicare benefits) other Plan assets include a diversified mix of equity securities, investment grade fixed maturity securities and other types of investments across a range of sectors Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. weighted-average target allocation for pension benefit plan assets is 44% equity securities, 48% fixed maturity securities, and 8% to all other types of investments. Equity securities primarily include a mix of domestic securities, foreign securities and mutual funds invested in equities. Fixed maturity securities primarily include treasury securities, corporate bonds and asset-backed investments issued by corporations and the U.S. government. Other types of investments primarily include insurance contracts designed specifically for employee benefit plans and partnership interests, collective trusts that replicate money market funds and insurance contracts designed specifically for employee benefit plans. As of December 31, 2019, there were no significant concentrations of investments in the pension benefit assets or other benefit assets. No plan assets were invested in Anthem common stock. measure their fair value. income receivable and amounts due to from brokers, resulting in a net asset of 64, are as follows (see Note 6, Fair Value, for additional information regarding the definition of level inputs): Level I Level II Level III Total December 31, 2019 Pension Benefit Assets: Equity securities: Fixed maturity securities: Other types of investments: Total pension benefit assets 861 890 227 1,978 Other Benefit Assets: Equity securities: Fixed maturity securities: Other types of investments: Total other benefit assets 35 22 294 351 U.S. securities 626 626 Foreign securities 197 197 Mutual funds 38 38 Government securities 252 252 Corporate securities 339 339 Asset-backed securities 163 163 Alternative investments 136 52 188 Insurance company contracts 175 175 Pension benefit assets and other benefit assets recorded at fair value are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to The fair values of our pension benefit assets and other benefit assets by asset category and level inputs at December 31, 2019, excluding cash, investment U.S. securities 8 8 Foreign securities 2 2 Mutual funds 25 25 Government securities 2 2 Corporate securities 4 4 Asset-backed securities 3 3 Alternative investments 1 1 Life insurance contracts 294 294 Investment in DOL 103-12 trust 12 12 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. income receivable and amounts due to from brokers, resulting in a net asset of 69, are as follows: Level I Level II Level III Total December 31, 2018 Pension Benefit Assets: Equity securities: Fixed maturity securities: Other types of investments: Total pension benefit assets 671 748 353 1,772 Other Benefit Assets: Equity securities: Fixed maturity securities: Other types of investments: Total other benefit assets 39 23 251 313 U.S. securities 488 488 Foreign securities 147 147 Mutual funds 36 36 Government securities 248 248 Corporate securities 347 347 Asset-backed securities 153 153 Alternative investments 187 187 Insurance company contracts 166 166 The fair values of our pension benefit assets and other benefit assets by asset category and level inputs at December 31, 2018, excluding cash, investment U.S. securities 9 9 Foreign securities 3 3 Mutual funds 27 27 Government securities 3 3 Corporate securities 5 5 Asset-backed securities 5 5 Alternative investments 2 2 Life insurance contracts 249 249 Investment in DOL 103-12 trust 10 10 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. 2018 and 2017 is as follows: transfers into or out of Level III during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 or 2017. tax deductible amounts. We may elect to make discretionary contributions up to the maximum amount deductible for income tax purposes. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, no material contributions were necessary to meet ERISA required funding levels. However, during each of the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we made tax deductible discretionary contributions to the pension benefit plans of 4. Employer contributions to other benefit plans represent discretionary contributions and do not include payments to retirees for current benefits. Year ended December 31, 2019 Beginning balance at January 1, 2019 189 166 249 604 Actual return on plan assets relating to assets still held at the reporting date 28 12 45 85 Purchases 24 6 30 Sales (52) (9) (61) Transfers out of Level III (137) (137) Ending balance at December 31, 2019 52 175 294 521 Year ended December 31, 2018 Beginning balance at January 1, 2018 221 173 269 663 Actual return on plan assets relating to assets still held at the reporting date (10) (7) (15) (32) Purchases 8 8 Sales (22) (8) (5) (35) Ending balance at December 31, 2018 189 166 249 604 Year ended December 31, 2017 Beginning balance at January 1, 2017 114 173 238 525 Actual return on plan assets relating to assets still held at the reporting date 20 (1) 31 50 Purchases 126 10 136 Sales (39) (9) (48) Ending balance at December 31, 2017 221 173 269 663 A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of plan assets measured at fair value using Level III inputs for the years ended December 31, 2019, During 2019, we transferred one of our alternative investments from Level III to Level II based on the inputs used to measure fair value. There were no other Our current funding strategy is to fund an amount at least equal to the minimum required funding as determined under ERISA with consideration of maximum Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Alternative Investments Insurance Company Contracts Insurance Contracts Total employees. Voluntary employee contributions are matched by us subject to certain limitations. Contributions made by us totaled 201, 211 and 142 during 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Contributions in 2018 include approximately 58 for a one time contribution made to employees following the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. 11. Medical Claims Payable December 31, 2019 is as follows: 2020 126 37 2021 126 36 2022 127 35 2023 124 34 2024 120 33 2025 - 2029 567 140 Gross medical claims payable, beginning of year 2,586 4,680 7,266 Ceded medical claims payable, beginning of year (10) (24) (34) Net medical claims payable, beginning of year 2,576 4,656 7,232 Net incurred medical claims: Total net incurred medical claims 25,752 52,443 78,195 Net payments attributable to: Total net payments 25,303 51,510 76,813 Net medical claims payable, end of year 3,025 5,589 8,614 Ceded medical claims payable, end of year 14 19 33 Gross medical claims payable, end of year 3,039 5,608 8,647 Current year 25,942 52,753 78,695 Prior years redundancies (190) (310) (500) Current year medical claims 23,026 47,268 70,294 Prior years medical claims 2,277 4,242 6,519 Our estimated future payments for pension benefits and postretirement benefits, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are as follows: In addition to the defined benefit plans, we maintain the Anthem 401(k) Plan, which is a qualified defined contribution plan covering substantially all A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances for medical claims payable, by segment (see Note 19, Segment Information ), for the year ended Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Commercial & Specialty Government Pension Benefits Business Total Other Benefits continually reviewed and re-estimated as information regarding actual claims payments, or runout, becomes known. This information is compared to the originally established year end liability. Negative amounts reported for incurred medical claims related to prior years result from claims being settled for amounts less than originally Gross medical claims payable, beginning of year 3,383 4,431 7,814 Ceded medical claims payable, beginning of year (78) (27) (105) Net medical claims payable, beginning of year 3,305 4,404 7,709 Business combinations and purchase adjustments 199 199 Net incurred medical claims: Total net incurred medical claims 23,638 45,013 68,651 Net payments attributable to: Total net payments 24,367 44,960 69,327 Net medical claims payable, end of year 2,576 4,656 7,232 Ceded medical claims payable, end of year 10 24 34 Gross medical claims payable, end of year 2,586 4,680 7,266 Gross medical claims payable, beginning of year 3,247 4,409 7,656 Ceded medical claims payable, beginning of year (521) (18) (539) Net medical claims payable, beginning of year 2,726 4,391 7,117 Business combinations and purchase adjustments 76 76 Net incurred medical claims: Total net incurred medical claims 29,005 40,239 69,244 Net payments attributable to: Total net payments 28,426 40,302 68,728 Net medical claims payable, end of year 3,305 4,404 7,709 Ceded medical claims payable, end of year 78 27 105 Gross medical claims payable, end of year 3,383 4,431 7,814 Current year 24,094 45,487 69,581 Prior years redundancies (456) (474) (930) Current year medical claims 21,633 41,115 62,748 Prior years medical claims 2,734 3,845 6,579 Current year 29,467 40,910 70,377 Prior years redundancies (462) (671) (1,133) Current year medical claims 26,250 36,673 62,923 Prior years medical claims 2,176 3,629 5,805 A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances for medical claims payable, by segment, for the year ended December 31, 2018 is as follows: A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances for medical claims payable, by segment, for the year ended December 31, 2017 is as follows: Amounts incurred related to prior years vary from previously estimated liabilities as the claims are ultimately settled. Liabilities at any period-end are Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Commercial & Specialty Commercial & Specialty Government Government Business Total Business Total estimated. The prior year redundancy of 500 shown above for the year ended December 31, 2019 represents an estimate based on paid claim activity from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019. Medical claim liabilities are usually described as having a short tail, which means that they are generally paid within twelve months of the member receiving service from the provider. Accordingly, the majority of the 500 redundancy relates to claims incurred in calendar year 2018. years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, which are the completion and trend factors. These two key assumptions can be influenced by utilization levels, unit costs, mix of business, benefit plan designs, provider reimbursement levels, processing system conversions and changes, claim inventory levels, claim processing patterns, claim submission patterns and operational changes resulting from business combinations. as a smaller but significant contribution from completion factor development. 2019 2018 2017 Assumed trend factors (325) (515) (631) Assumed completion factors (175) (415) (502) Total (500) (930) (1,133) Years Ended December 31 2019 2018 2017 Net incurred medical claims: Total net incurred medical claims 78,195 68,651 69,244 Quality improvement and other claims expense 3,591 3,244 2,992 Benefit expense 81,786 71,895 72,236 Commercial & Specialty Business 2017 2018 2017 & Prior 31,731 31,275 31,241 2018 24,094 23,938 2019 25,942 Total 81,121 Commercial & Specialty Business 25,752 23,638 29,005 Government Business 52,443 45,013 40,239 The following table provides a summary of the two key assumptions having the most significant impact on our incurred but not paid liability estimates for the The favorable development recognized in 2019 resulted primarily from trend factors in late 2018 developing more favorably than originally expected as well The favorable development recognized in 2018 and 2017 resulted from trend and completion factors developing more favorably than originally expected. The reconciliation of net incurred medical claims to benefit expense included in the consolidated statements of income is as follows: Incurred claims development, net of reinsurance, for the Commercial & Specialty Business for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as Claim Years (Unaudited) (Unaudited) 2019 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Cumulative Incurred Claims and Allocated Claim Adjustment by Changes in Key Assumptions Expenses, Net of Reinsurance Favorable Developments Business was 31, 78 and 2,916 for the claim years 2017 and prior, 2018 and 2019, respectively. prior, 2018 and 2019, respectively. 89 and 5,484 for the claim years 2017 and prior, 2018 and 2019, respectively. and 2019, respectively. 2017 and 2018, for both the Commercial & Specialty Business and Government Business, is unaudited and presented as supplementary information. Commercial & Specialty Business 2017 2018 2017 & Prior 28,426 31,160 31,210 2018 21,633 23,860 2019 23,026 Total 78,096 Government Business 2017 2018 2017 & Prior 44,706 44,232 44,120 2018 45,686 45,488 2019 52,753 Total 142,361 Government Business 2017 2018 2017 & Prior 40,302 44,147 44,104 2018 41,115 45,400 2019 47,268 Total 136,772 Paid claims development, net of reinsurance, for the Commercial & Specialty Business for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: At December 31, 2019, the total of incurred but not reported liabilities plus expected development on reported claims for the Commercial & Specialty At December 31, 2019, the cumulative number of reported claims for the Commercial & Specialty Business was 121, 89 and 84 for the claim years 2017 and Incurred claims development, net of reinsurance, for the Government Business as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: Paid claims development, net of reinsurance, for the Government Business as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: At December 31, 2019, the total of incurred but not reported liabilities plus expected development on reported claims for the Government Business was 16, At December 31, 2019, the cumulative number of reported claims for the Government Business was 221, 216 and 230 for the claim years 2017 and prior, 2018 The information about incurred claims development, paid claims development and cumulative number of reported claims for the years ended December 31, Claim Years (Unaudited) (Unaudited) 2019 Claim Years (Unaudited) (Unaudited) 2019 Claim Years (Unaudited) (Unaudited) 2019 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Cumulative Incurred Claims and Allocated Claim Adjustment Cumulative Paid Claims and Allocated Claim Adjustment Cumulative Paid Claims and Allocated Claim Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance Expenses, Net of Reinsurance Expenses, Net of Reinsurance developed using historical data captured by our claim payment systems. The provided claim amounts are not a precise tool for understanding utilization of medical services. They could be impacted by a variety of factors including changes in provider billing practices, provider reimbursement arrangements, mix of services, benefit design or processing systems. The cumulative number of reported claims has been provided to comply with FASB accounting standards and is not used by management in its claims analysis. Our cumulative number of reported claims may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other health benefits companies. ended December 31, 2019, reflected in the tables above, to the consolidated ending balance for medical claims payable included in the consolidated balance sheet, as of December 31, 2019, is as follows: Short-term Borrowings Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, or collectively, the FHLBs. As a member we have the ability to obtain short-term cash advances, subject to certain minimum collateral requirements. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, 650 and 645, respectively, were outstanding under our short-term FHLB borrowings. These outstanding short-term FHLB borrowings at December 31, 2019 and 2018 had fixed interest rates of 1.664% and 2.458%, respectively. corporate purposes. The Subsidiary Credit Facilities provide combined credit of up to 600. The interest rate on each line of credit is based on the LIBOR rate plus a predetermined rate. Our ability to borrow under the lines of credit is subject to compliance with certain covenants. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, 50 and 500, respectively, were outstanding under our Subsidiary Credit Facilities. Cumulative incurred claims and allocated claim adjustment expenses, net of reinsurance 81,121 142,361 223,482 Less: Cumulative paid claims and allocated claim adjustment expenses, net of reinsurance 78,096 136,772 214,868 Net medical claims payable, end of year 3,025 5,589 8,614 Ceded medical claims payable, end of year 14 19 33 Insurance lines other than short duration 195 195 Gross medical claims payable, end of year 3,039 5,803 8,842 The cumulative number of reported claims for each claim year, for both the Commercial & Specialty Business and Government Business, have been The reconciliation of the Commercial & Specialty Business and Government Business incurred and paid claims development information for the three years We are a member, through certain subsidiaries, of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati and the Federal Through certain subsidiaries, we have entered into multiple 364-day lines of credit, or the Subsidiary Credit Facilities, with separate lenders for general Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Commercial & Specialty Government Business Total Long-term Debt redeem the Notes at any time at our option and or a put feature that allows a Note holder to 2019 2018 Senior unsecured notes: Surplus note: Senior convertible debentures: Variable rate debt: Total long-term debt 19,385 18,066 Current portion of long-term debt (1,598) (849) Long-term debt, less current portion 17,787 17,217 2.250%, due 2019 849 2.500%, due 2020 899 897 4.350%, due 2020 699 688 3.700%, due 2021 699 698 2.950%, due 2022 747 747 3.125%, due 2022 847 846 3.300%, due 2023 1,013 1,000 3.350%, due 2024 846 846 3.500%, due 2024 795 794 2.375%, due 2025 845 3.650%, due 2027 1,590 1,589 4.101%, due 2028 1,253 1,250 2.875%, due 2029 819 5.950%, due 2034 334 334 5.850%, due 2036 396 396 6.375%, due 2037 366 366 5.800%, due 2040 124 124 4.625%, due 2042 888 887 4.650%, due 2043 987 986 4.650%, due 2044 792 791 5.100%, due 2044 594 594 4.375%, due 2047 1,386 1,386 4.550%, due 2048 838 838 3.700%, due 2049 811 4.850%, due 2054 247 247 9.000%, due 2027 25 25 2.750%, due 2042 145 191 Commercial paper program 400 697 The carrying value of long-term debt at December 31, 2019 and 2018 consists of the following: All debt is a direct obligation of Anthem, Inc., except for the surplus note, the FHLB borrowings and the Subsidiary Credit Facilities. We generally issue senior unsecured notes, or Notes, for long-term borrowing purposes. Certain of these Notes may have a call feature that allows us to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. redeem the Notes upon the occurrence of both a change in control event and a downgrade of the Notes below an investment grade rating. 2.875% Notes due 2029, or the 2029 Notes, and 825 aggregate principal amount of 3.700% Notes due 2049, or the 2049 Notes, under our shelf registration statement. Interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing January 15, 2020. Interest on the 2029 Notes and the 2049 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 each year, commencing March 15, 2020. The proceeds were used for working capital and general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, the repurchase of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, repayment of short-term and long-term debt and to fund acquisitions. the 625 outstanding balance of our 1.875% senior unsecured notes. formula set forth in the Equity Units purchase contracts. This resulted in the issuance of approximately 6 shares. We had issued 25 Equity Units on May 12, 2015, pursuant to an underwriting agreement dated May 6, 2015, in an aggregate principal amount of 1,250. Each Equity Unit had a stated amount of 50 (whole dollars) and consisted of a purchase contract obligating the holder to purchase a certain number of shares of our common stock on May 1, 2018, subject to earlier termination or settlement, for a price in cash of 50 (whole dollars) and a 5% undivided beneficial ownership interest in 1,000 (whole dollars) principal amount of our 1.900% remarketable subordinated notes, or RSNs, due 2028. On March 2, 2018, we remarketed the RSNs and used the proceeds to purchase U.S. Treasury securities that were pledged to secure the stock purchase obligations of the holders of the Equity Units. The purchasers of the RSNs transferred the RSNs to us in exchange for 1,250 principal amount of our 4.101% senior notes due 2028, or the 2028 Notes, and a cash payment of 4. We canceled the RSNs upon receipt and recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of 18. At the remarketing, we also issued 850 aggregate principal amount of 4.550% notes due 2048, or the 2048 Notes, under our shelf registration statement. We used the proceeds from the 2048 Notes for working capital and general corporate purposes. Interest on the 2028 Notes and the 2048 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing on September 1, 2018. 2.950% Notes due 2022, or the 2022 Notes, 850 aggregate principal amount of 3.350% Notes due 2024, or the 2024 Notes, 1,600 aggregate principal amount of 3.650% Notes due 2027, or the 2027 Notes and 1,400 aggregate principal amount of 4.375% Notes due 2047, or the 2047 Notes, under our shelf registration statement. Interest on the 2020 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on May 21 and November 21 of each year, commencing on May 21, 2018. Interest on the 2022 Notes, the 2024 Notes, the 2027 Notes and the 2047 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing on June 1, 2018. The net proceeds were used to fund the acquisitions of HealthSun and America s 1st Choice and redemption of the Tender Notes, discussed below. 5.950% Notes due 2034, 5.850% Notes due 2036, 6.375% Notes due 2037, 5.800% Notes due 2040 and 5.100% Notes due 2044, or the Maximum Tender Offer Notes, and collectively with the Any and All Notes, the Tender Notes. On November 21, 2017, we repurchased 185 aggregate principal amount of the Any and All Notes, plus applicable premium and accrued and unpaid interest, for cash totaling 199. On November 30, 2017, we repurchased 836 aggregate principal amount of the Maximum Tender Offer Notes, plus applicable premium and accrued and unpaid interest, for cash totaling 1,095. We recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of 266 for the repurchase of the Tender Notes. redemption and accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, for cash totaling 275. We recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of 14 for the repurchase of these Notes. On September 9, 2019, we issued 850 aggregate principal amount of 2.375% Notes due 2025, or the 2025 Notes, 825 aggregate principal amount of On August 15, 2019, we repaid, at maturity, the 850 outstanding balance of our 2.250% senior unsecured notes. On July 16, 2018, we repaid, at maturity, the 650 outstanding balance of our 2.300% senior unsecured notes. On January 15, 2018, we repaid, at maturity, On May 1, 2018, we settled our Equity Units stock purchase contracts at a settlement rate of 0.2412 shares of our common stock, using a market value On November 21, 2017, we issued 900 aggregate principal amount of 2.500% Notes due 2020, or the 2020 Notes, 750 aggregate principal amount of On November 14, 2017, we initiated a cash tender offer to purchase any and all of our 7.000% Notes due 2019, or the Any and All Notes, and certain of our On December 14, 2017, we redeemed the 255 remaining outstanding principal balance of our 7.000% Notes due 2019, plus applicable premium for early Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. right of payment to all of Anthem Insurance s existing and future indebtedness. Any payment of interest or principal on the surplus note may be made only with the prior approval of the Indiana Department of Insurance, or IDOI, and only out of capital and surplus funds of Anthem Insurance that the IDOI determines to be available for the payment under Indiana insurance laws. restated the credit agreement for the 5-Year Facility to, among other things, extend the maturity date from August 2020 to June 2024 and decrease the amount of credit available from 3,500 to 2,500. In June 2019, we also entered into a 364-day senior revolving credit facility, or 364-Day Facility, with a group of lenders for general corporate purposes, which provides for credit in the amount of 1,000 and matures in June 2020. There were no amounts outstanding under the 5-Year Facility or the 364-Day Facility at any time during the years ended December 31, 2019 or 2018. increased the amount available under the commercial paper program from 2,500 to 3,500. At December 31, 2019, we had 400 outstanding under our commercial paper program with a weighted-average interest rate of 1.8528%. At December 31, 2018, we had 697 outstanding under our commercial paper program with a weighted-average interest rate of 2.8270%. Commercial paper borrowings have been classified as long-term debt at December 31, 2019 and 2018, as our general practice and intent is to replace short-term commercial paper outstanding at expiration with additional short-term commercial paper for an uninterrupted period extending for more than one year, and we have the ability to redeem our commercial paper with borrowings under the senior revolving credit facilities described above. portion of the consideration under the now terminated Cigna Merger Agreement. In January 2017, we reduced the size of the bridge facility from 22,500 to 19,500 and extended the termination date under the Cigna Merger Agreement, as well as the availability of commitments under the bridge facility and term loan facility, to April 30, 2017. We recorded 108 of interest expense related to the amortization of the bridge loan facility and other related fees during the year ended December 31, 2017. The commitment of the lenders to provide the bridge facility and term loan facility expired on April 30, 2017. Convertible Debentures Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The Debentures are governed by an indenture dated as of October 9, 2012 between us and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, or the Indenture. The Debentures bear interest at a rate of 2.750% per year, payable semi- annually in arrears in cash on April 15 and October 15 of each year, and mature on October 15, 2042, unless earlier redeemed, repurchased or converted into shares of common stock at the applicable conversion rate. The Debentures also have a contingent interest feature that will require us to pay additional interest based on certain thresholds and for certain events, as defined in the Indenture, beginning on October 15, 2022. following circumstances: (1) during any fiscal quarter if the last reported sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price on each applicable trading day (2) during the five business day period after any 10 consecutive trading day period, or the measurement period, in which the trading price per 1,000 (whole dollars) principal amount of Debentures for each trading day of that measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the applicable conversion rate on each such day (3) if we call any or all of the Debentures for redemption, at any time prior to the close of business on the third scheduled trading day prior to the redemption date or (4) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events, as defined in the Indenture. On and after April 15, 2042 and until the close of business on the third scheduled trading day immediately preceding the Debentures maturity date of October 15, 2042, holders may convert their Debentures into common stock at any time irrespective of the preceding circumstances. The Debentures are redeemable at our option at any time on or after October 20, 2022, upon the occurrence of certain events, as defined in the Indenture. The surplus note is an unsecured obligation of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc., or Anthem Insurance, a wholly owned subsidiary, and is subordinate in We have a senior revolving credit facility, or the 5-Year Facility, with a group of lenders for general corporate purposes. In June 2019, we amended and We have an authorized commercial paper program of up to 3,500, the proceeds of which may be used for general corporate purposes. In August 2019, we During the year ended December 31, 2015, we entered into a bridge facility commitment letter and a joinder agreement, and a term loan facility, to finance a On October 9, 2012, we issued 1,500 of senior convertible debentures, or the Debentures, in a private offering to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Holders may convert their Debentures at their option prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding April 15, 2042, only under the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the Debentures converted, we have the option to settle the excess with cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof based on a daily conversion value, determined in accordance with the Indenture. The initial conversion rate for the Debentures was 13.2319 shares of our common stock per Debenture, which represented a 25% conversion premium based on the closing price of 60.46 per share of our common stock on October 2, 2012 (the date the Debentures terms were finalized) and is equivalent to an initial conversion price of 75.575 per share of our common stock. amount of the Debentures was surrendered for conversion by certain holders in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Indenture. We elected to settle the excess of the principal amount of the repurchases and conversions with cash for total payments of 273. We recognized a loss on the extinguishment of debt related to the Debentures of 2, based on the fair values of the debt on the repurchase and conversion settlement dates. During the year ended December 31, 2018, 109 aggregate principal amount of the Debentures was surrendered for conversion. We elected to settle the excess of the principal amount of the conversions with cash for total payments of 402. We recognized a gain on the extinguishment of debt related to the debentures of 7. During the year ended December 31, 2017, 117 aggregate principal amount of the Debentures was surrendered for conversion. We elected to settle the excess of the principal amount of the conversions with cash for total payments of 345 and recognized a loss on the extinguishment of debt related to the debentures of 2. December 31, 2019, we would have been obligated to pay the principal of the Debentures plus an amount in cash or shares equal to 691. The Debentures and underlying shares of our common stock have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act, or any state securities laws, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. result, the value of the embedded conversion option, net of deferred taxes and equity issuance costs, has been bifurcated from its debt host and recorded as a component of additional paid-in capital in our consolidated balance sheets. amortized into interest expense using the effective interest method based on an effective interest rate of 5.130%, which represents the market interest rate for a comparable debt instrument that does not have a conversion feature. During the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recognized 9, 12 and 17, respectively, of interest expense related to the Debentures, of which 7, 10 and 14, respectively, represented interest expense recognized at the stated interest rate of 2.750% and 2, 2 and 3, respectively, represented interest expense resulting from amortization of the debt discount. Outstanding principal amount 215 Unamortized debt discount 68 Net debt carrying amount 145 Equity component carrying amount 78 Conversion rate (shares of common stock per 1,000 of principal amount) 13.9500 Effective conversion price (per 1,000 of principal amount) 71.6843 Upon conversion of the Debentures, we will deliver cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the Debentures converted. With respect to any conversion During the year ended December 31, 2019, we repurchased 15 of the aggregate principal balance of the Debentures. In addition, 57 aggregate principal As of December 31, 2019, our common stock was last traded at a price of 302.03 per share. If the remaining Debentures had been converted or matured at We have accounted for the Debentures in accordance with the cash conversion guidance in FASB guidance for debt with conversion and other options. As a The following table summarizes, at December 31, 2019, the related balances, conversion rate and conversion price of the Debentures: The remaining amortization period of the unamortized debt discount as of December 31, 2019 is approximately 23 years. The unamortized discount will be Total interest paid during 2019, 2018 and 2017 was 755, 728, and 778, respectively. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants under all of our outstanding debt agreements at December 31, 2019 and 2018. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. and thereafter, 12,440. 13. Commitments and Contingencies Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings or plaintiffs in the following cases have specified in their complaint or in other court filings the amount of damages being sought, we have noted those alleged damages in the descriptions below. With respect to the cases described below, we contest liability and or the amount of damages in each matter and believe we have meritorious defenses. reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, we accrue the estimated loss by a charge to income. In many proceedings, however, it is difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or reasonably possible. In addition, even where loss is possible or an exposure to loss exists in excess of the liability already accrued with respect to a previously identified loss contingency, it is not always possible to reasonably estimate the amount of the possible loss or range of loss. of the amount, if any, accrued, for various reasons, including but not limited to some or all of the following: (i) there are novel or unsettled legal issues presented, (ii) the proceedings are in early stages, (iii) there is uncertainty as to the likelihood of a class being certified or decertified or the ultimate size and scope of the class, (iv) there is uncertainty as to the outcome of pending appeals or motions, (v) there are significant factual issues to be resolved, and or (vi) in many cases, the plaintiffs have not specified damages in their complaint or in court filings. For those legal proceedings where a loss is probable, or reasonably possible, and for which it is possible to reasonably estimate the amount of the possible loss or range of losses, we currently believe that the range of possible losses, in excess of established reserves is, in the aggregate, from 0 to approximately 750 at December 31, 2019. This estimated aggregate range of reasonably possible losses is based upon currently available information taking into account our best estimate of such losses for which such an estimate can be made. Blue Cross Blue Shield Antitrust Litigation the country. The cases were consolidated into a single, multi-district proceeding captioned In re Blue Cross Blue Shield Antitrust Litigation that is pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama, or the Court. Generally, the suits allege that the BCBSA and the Blue plans have conspired to horizontally allocate geographic markets through license agreements, best efforts rules that limit the percentage of non-Blue revenue of each plan, restrictions on acquisitions rules governing the BlueCard and National Accounts programs and other arrangements in violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act, or Sherman Act, and related state laws. The cases were brought by two putative nationwide classes of plaintiffs, health plan subscribers and providers, and actions filed in twenty-eight states have been consolidated into the multi-district proceeding. defendants aggregation of geographic market allocations and output restrictions are to be analyzed under a per se standard of review, and the BlueCard program and other alleged Section 1 Sherman Act violations are to be analyzed under the rule of reason standard of review. The Court also found that there remain genuine issues of material fact as to whether defendants operate as a single entity with regard to the enforcement of the Blue Cross Blue Shield trademarks. No dates have been set for either the final pretrial conferences or trials in these actions. In March 2019, the Court issued a Fourth Amended Scheduling Order requiring that briefing on motions for class certification and related expert reports, merits and damages expert reports, and certain dispositive motions occur in 2019. In April 2019, plaintiffs filed their motions for class certification in conjunction with their supporting expert reports. Defendants filed their motions to exclude plaintiffs experts, as well as their opposition to plaintiffs motions for class certification, in July 2019. The case has been stayed until further notice from the Court. Future maturities of all long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2019 are as follows: 2020, 1,998 2021, 699 2022, 1,594 2023, 1,013 2024, 1,641 In the ordinary course of business, we are defendants in, or parties to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions or proceedings. To the extent a plaintiff Where available information indicates that it is probable that a loss has been incurred as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and we can With respect to many of the proceedings to which we are a party, we cannot provide an estimate of the possible losses, or the range of possible losses in excess We are a defendant in multiple lawsuits that were initially filed in 2012 against the BCBSA and Blue Cross and or Blue Shield licensees, or Blue plans, across In response to cross motions for partial summary judgment by plaintiffs and defendants, the Court issued an order in April 2018 determining that the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Blue Cross of California Taxation Litigation taxpayer action filed in Los Angeles County Superior Court, captioned Michael D. Myers v. State Board of Equalization, et al. This action was brought under a California statute that permits an individual taxpayer to sue a governmental agency when the taxpayer believes the agency has failed to enforce governing law. Plaintiff contends that BCC, a licensed Health Care Service Plan, or HCSP, is an insurer for purposes of taxation despite acknowledging it is not an insurer under regulatory law. At the time, under California law, insurers were required to pay a gross premiums tax, or GPT, calculated as 2.35% on gross premiums. As a licensed HCSP, BCC has paid the California Corporate Franchise Tax, or CFT, the tax paid by California businesses generally. Plaintiff contends that BCC must pay the GPT rather than the CFT, and seeks a writ of mandate directing the taxing agencies to collect the GPT and an order requiring BCC to pay GPT back taxes, interest, and penalties for the eight-year period prior to the filing of the complaint. mandate in the California Court of Appeal. Although the California Court of Appeal initially accepted our writ, it later indicated that it will not hear the issues raised by our writ until the case concludes in the Superior Court. The Superior Court has postponed the March 2020 trial date to July 2020. The parties are currently engaged in discovery and are in the process of retaining experts. Because GPT is constitutionally imposed in lieu of certain other taxes, BCC has filed protective tax refund claims with the City of Los Angeles, the California Department of Health Care Services and the Franchise Tax Board to protect its rights to recover certain taxes previously paid should BCC eventually be determined to be subject to the GPT for the tax periods at issue in the litigation. BCC intends to vigorously defend this suit however, its ultimate outcome cannot be presently determined. Express Scripts, Inc. Pharmacy Benefit Management Litigation Inc., in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The lawsuit seeks to recover over 14,800 in damages for pharmacy pricing that is higher than competitive benchmark pricing under the agreement between the parties, or the ESI PBM Agreement, over 158 in damages related to operational breaches, as well as various declarations under the ESI PBM Agreement between the parties, including that Express Scripts: (i) breached its obligation to negotiate in good faith and to agree in writing to new pricing terms (ii) was required to provide competitive benchmark pricing to us through the term of the ESI PBM Agreement (iii) has breached the ESI PBM Agreement and (iv) is required under the ESI PBM Agreement to provide post-termination services, at competitive benchmark pricing, for one year following any termination. PBM Agreement and (ii) that it has no obligation to ensure that we receive any specific level of pricing, that we have no contractual right to any change in pricing under the ESI PBM Agreement and that its sole obligation is to negotiate proposed pricing terms in good faith. In the alternative, Express Scripts claims that we have been unjustly enriched by its payment of 4,675 at the time we entered into the ESI PBM Agreement. In March 2017, the court granted our motion to dismiss Express Scripts counterclaims for (i) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and (ii) unjust enrichment with prejudice. The only remaining claims are for breach of contract and declaratory relief. Fact discovery has been completed. We intend to vigorously pursue our claims and defend against any counterclaims, which we believe are without merit however, the ultimate outcome cannot be presently determined. In re Express Scripts Anthem ERISA Litigation single multi-district lawsuit captioned In Re Express Scripts Anthem ERISA Litigation, in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The consolidated complaint was filed by plaintiffs against Express Scripts and us on behalf of all persons who are participants in or beneficiaries of any ERISA or non- ERISA healthcare plan from December 1, 2009 to December 31, 2019 in which we provided prescription drug benefits through the ESI PBM Agreement and paid a percentage based co-insurance payment in the course of using that prescription drug benefit. The plaintiffs allege that we breached our duties, either under ERISA or with respect to the implied covenant of We intend to vigorously defend these suits however, their ultimate outcome cannot be presently determined. In July 2013, our California affiliate Blue Cross of California (doing business as Anthem Blue Cross), or BCC, was named as a defendant in a California In March 2018, the Superior Court denied BCC s motion for judgment on the pleadings and similar motions brought by other entities. We filed a writ of In March 2016, we filed a lawsuit against Express Scripts, Inc., or Express Scripts, our vendor for PBM services, captioned Anthem, Inc. v. Express Scripts, Express Scripts has disputed our contractual claims and is seeking declaratory judgments: (i) regarding the timing of the periodic pricing review under the ESI We are a defendant in a class action lawsuit that was initially filed in June 2016 against Anthem, Inc. and Express Scripts, which has been consolidated into a Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. good faith and fair dealing implied in the health plans, (i) by failing to adequately monitor Express Scripts pricing under the ESI PBM Agreement and (ii) by placing our own pecuniary interest above the best interests of our insureds by allegedly agreeing to higher pricing in the ESI PBM Agreement in exchange for the purchase price for our NextRx PBM business, and (iii) with respect to the non-ERISA members, by negotiating and entering into the ESI PBM Agreement that was allegedly detrimental to the interests of such non-ERISA members. Plaintiffs seek to hold us and Express Scripts jointly and severally liable and to recover all losses suffered by the proposed class, equitable relief, disgorgement of alleged ill-gotten gains, injunctive relief, attorney s fees and costs and interest. appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which was heard in October 2018 but has not yet been decided. We intend to vigorously defend this suit however, its ultimate outcome cannot be presently determined. Cigna Corporation Merger Litigation In July 2016, the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, along with certain state attorneys general, filed a civil antitrust lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, or District Court, seeking to block the merger. In February 2017, Cigna purported to terminate the Cigna Merger Agreement and commenced litigation against us in the Delaware Court of Chancery, or Delaware Court, seeking damages, including the 1,850 termination fee pursuant to the terms of the Cigna Merger Agreement, and a declaratory judgment that its purported termination of the Cigna Merger Agreement was lawful, among other claims, which is captioned Cigna Corp. v. Anthem Inc. terminating the Cigna Merger Agreement, specific performance compelling Cigna to comply with the Cigna Merger Agreement and damages, which is captioned Anthem Inc. v. Cigna Corp. In April 2017, the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia affirmed the ruling of the District Court, which blocked the merger. In May 2017, after the Delaware Court denied our motion to enjoin Cigna from terminating the Cigna Merger Agreement, we delivered to Cigna a notice terminating the Cigna Merger Agreement. November 2019 and took the matter under consideration. In February 2020, the Delaware Court requested supplemental briefing. The parties have been instructed to negotiate a schedule for the supplemental submissions. We believe Cigna s allegations are without merit, and we intend to vigorously pursue our claims and defend against Cigna s allegations however, the ultimate outcome of our litigation with Cigna cannot be presently determined. v. Joseph R Swedish, et al., purportedly on behalf of us and our shareholders against certain current and former directors and officers alleging breaches of fiduciary duties, unjust enrichment and corporate waste associated with the Cigna Merger Agreement. This case has been stayed at the request of the parties pending the outcome of our litigation with Cigna in the Delaware Court. This lawsuit s ultimate outcome cannot be presently determined. U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) Civil Investigative Demands programs under Parts C and D of the Medicare program. We understand the DOJ is investigating the programs of other Medicare Advantage health plans, along with providers and vendors. We continue to cooperate with the DOJ s investigation, and the ultimate outcome cannot presently be determined. Cyber Attack Regulatory Proceedings and Litigation of our information technology systems and obtained personal information related to many individuals and employees. To date, there is no evidence that credit card or medical information was accessed or In April 2017, we filed a motion to dismiss the claims brought against us, and it was granted, without prejudice, in January 2018. Plaintiffs filed a notice of In July 2015, we and Cigna announced that we entered into the Cigna Merger Agreement, pursuant to which we would acquire all outstanding shares of Cigna. Also in February 2017, we initiated our own litigation against Cigna in the Delaware Court seeking a temporary restraining order to enjoin Cigna from In the Delaware Court litigation, trial commenced in late February 2019 and concluded in March 2019. The Delaware Court held closing argument in In October 2018, a shareholder filed a derivative lawsuit in the State of Indiana Marion County Superior Court, captioned Henry Bittmann, Derivatively, et al. Beginning in December 2016, the DOJ has issued civil investigative demands to us to discover information about our chart review and risk adjustment In February 2015, we reported that we were the target of a sophisticated external cyber attack, during which the attackers gained unauthorized access to certain Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. obtained. Upon discovery of the cyber attack, we took immediate action to remediate the security vulnerability and have continued to implement security enhancements since this incident. responses. The investigations have all been resolved with the exception of an ongoing investigation by a multi-state group of attorneys general, which remains outstanding. Although we are cooperating in this investigation, we may be subject to additional fines or other obligations. We intend to vigorously defend the remaining regulatory investigation however, its ultimate outcome cannot be presently determined. losses however, the ultimate outcome of our pursuit of insurance coverage cannot be presently determined. Other Contingencies ordinary course of business. We, like HMOs and health insurers generally, exclude certain healthcare and other services from coverage under our HMO, PPO and other plans. We are, in the ordinary course of business, subject to the claims of our enrollees arising out of decisions to restrict or deny reimbursement for uncovered services. The loss of even one such claim, if it results in a significant punitive damage award, could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, the risk of potential liability under punitive damage theories may increase significantly the difficulty of obtaining reasonable reimbursement of coverage claims. from time to time involved as a party in various governmental investigations, audits, reviews and administrative proceedings. These investigations, audits, reviews and administrative proceedings include routine and special inquiries by state insurance departments, state attorneys general, the U.S. Attorney General and subcommittees of the U.S. Congress. Such investigations, audits, reviews and administrative proceedings could result in the imposition of civil or criminal fines, penalties, other sanctions and additional rules, regulations or other restrictions on our business operations. Any liability that may result from any one of these actions, or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Contractual Obligations and Commitments self-funded Anthem health plan customers throughout the country, as well as to customers outside of the health plans we own. This comprehensive product portfolio includes features such as drug formularies, a pharmacy network, prescription drug database, member services and mail order capabilities. Also beginning in the second quarter of 2019, we began delegating certain PBM administrative functions, such as claims processing and prescription fulfillment, to CaremarkPCS Health, L.L.C., or CVS Health, which is a subsidiary of CVS Health Corporation, pursuant to a five-year agreement with CVS Health, or the CVS PBM Agreement. We intend to retain the responsibilities for IngenioRx s clinical and formulary strategy and development, member and employer experiences, operations, sales, marketing, account management and retail network strategy. From December 2009 through December 2019, we delegated certain PBM functions and administrative services to Express Scripts pursuant to the ESI PBM Agreement. In January 2019, we exercised our contractual right to terminate the ESI PBM Agreement earlier than the original expiration date of December 31, 2019, due to the acquisition of Express Scripts by Cigna. We began transitioning existing members from Express Scripts to IngenioRx in the second quarter of 2019, and completed the transition of all of our members on January 1, 2020. Prior to the termination of the ESI PBM Agreement, Express Scripts managed the network of pharmacy providers, operated mail order pharmacies and processed prescription drug claims on our behalf, while we sold and supported the product for our members, made formulary decisions, sold drug benefit design strategy and provided front line member support. Express Scripts continues to provide certain audit and run out transition services related to our PBM business. Notwithstanding our termination of the ESI PBM Agreement, the litigation between us and Express Scripts regarding the ESI PBM Agreement continues. For additional information regarding this lawsuit, refer to the Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings Express Scripts, Inc. Pharmacy Benefit Management Litigation section above. We believe we have appropriately recognized all rights and obligations under the ESI PBM Agreement as of December 31, 2019. From time to time, we and certain of our subsidiaries are parties to various legal proceedings, many of which involve claims for coverage encountered in the In addition to the lawsuits described above, we are also involved in other pending and threatened litigation of the character incidental to our business, and are Federal and state agencies are investigating, or have investigated, events related to the cyber attack, including how it occurred, its consequences and our We have contingency plans and insurance coverage for certain expenses and potential liabilities of this nature and will pursue coverage for all applicable In the second quarter of 2019, we began using our new pharmacy benefits manager called IngenioRx to market and sell a PBM product to fully-insured and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Vulnerability from Concentrations receivables and instruments held through hedging activities. All investment securities are managed by professional investment managers within policies authorized by our Board of Directors. Such policies limit the amounts that may be invested in any one issuer and prescribe certain investee company criteria. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to premium receivables are limited due to the large number of employer groups that constitute our customer base in the states in which we conduct business. As of December 31, 2019, there were no significant concentrations of financial instruments in a single investee, industry or geographic location. 14. Capital Stock Stock Incentive Plans The term of the 2017 Incentive Plan is such that no awards may be granted on or after May 18, 2027. The 2017 Incentive Plan gives authority to the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors to make incentive awards to our non-employee directors, employees and consultants, consisting of stock options, stock, restricted stock, restricted stock units, cash-based awards, stock appreciation rights, performance shares and performance units. The 2017 Incentive Plan limits the number of available shares for issuance to 37.5 shares, subject to adjustment as set forth in the 2017 Incentive Plan. options have vested over three years in equal semi-annual installments and generally have a term of ten years from the grant date. Amendments to the 2017 Incentive Plan, effective July 1, 2018, require future grants of stock options to vest in three equal annual installments. method for newly granted awards considers all vesting and other provisions, including retirement eligibility, in determining the requisite service period over which the fair value of the awards will be recognized. measures that must be met for the award to vest. For restricted stock or restricted stock units without performance measures, the restrictions lapse in three equal annual installments. Restricted stock or restricted stock units with performance measures vest in three year installments. Performance units issued in 2019 will vest in 2022, based on earnings targets over the three year period of 2019 to 2021. Performance units issued in 2018 will vest in 2021, based on earnings targets over the three year period of 2018 to 2020. Performance units issued in 2017 will vest in 2020, based on earnings targets over the three year period of 2017 to 2019. related tax benefits of 78, 61 and 68, respectively. Outstanding at January 1, 2019 3.7 149.65 Granted 0.7 306.61 Exercised (1.2) 126.10 Forfeited or expired (0.1) 241.26 Outstanding at December 31, 2019 3.1 190.31 6.18 355 Exercisable at December 31, 2019 2.0 145.37 4.93 312 Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents, investment securities, premium Our Board of Directors has adopted the 2017 Anthem Incentive Compensation Plan, or 2017 Incentive Plan, which has been approved by our shareholders. Stock options are granted for a fixed number of shares with an exercise price at least equal to the fair value of the shares at the grant date. Historically, stock Certain option grants contain provisions whereby the employee continues to vest in the award subsequent to termination due to retirement. Our attribution Awards of restricted stock or restricted stock units are issued at the fair value of the stock on the grant date and may also include one or more performance For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recognized share-based compensation expense of 294, 226 and 170, respectively, as well as A summary of stock option activity for the year ended December 31, 2019 is as follows: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Weighted-Average Option Price per Weighted-Average Contractual Life Aggregate Intrinsic recognized tax benefits of 52, 47 and 76 during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, from option exercises and disqualifying dispositions. During the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we received cash of 143, 141 and 200, respectively, from exercises of stock options. three year period of 2019 to 2021. These grants have been included in the activity shown above, but will be subject to adjustment at the end of 2021, based on results in the three year period. stock units, amounted to 25 and 139, respectively, which will be amortized over the weighted-average remaining requisite service periods of 11 months and 12 months, respectively. Fair Value model are based on an analysis of implied volatilities of publicly traded options on our stock and historical volatility of our stock price. The risk-free interest rate is derived from the U.S. Treasury strip rates at the time of the grant. The expected term of the options was derived from the outputs of the binomial lattice model, which incorporates post-vesting forfeiture assumptions based on an analysis of historical data. The dividend yield was based on our estimate of future dividend yields. Similar groups of employees that have dissimilar exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. We utilize the multiple-grant approach for recognizing compensation expense associated with each separately vesting portion of the share-based award. Nonvested at January 1, 2019 1.7 183.32 Granted 0.6 305.88 Vested (0.8) 153.79 Forfeited (0.1) 242.38 Nonvested at December 31, 2019 1.4 242.47 The intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 amounted to 188, 172 and 192, respectively. We The total fair value of restricted stock awards that vested during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 was 245, 237 and 127, respectively. A summary of the status of nonvested restricted stock activity, including restricted stock units, for the year ended December 31, 2019 is as follows: During the year ended December 31, 2019, we granted approximately 0.2 restricted stock units that are contingent upon us achieving earning targets over the As of December 31, 2019, the total remaining unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested stock options and restricted stock, including restricted As of December 31, 2019, there were approximately 20.5 shares of common stock available for future grants under the 2017 Incentive Plan. We use a binomial lattice valuation model to estimate the fair value of all stock options granted. Expected volatility assumptions used in the binomial lattice Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Stock Shares Restricted and Units Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Value per Share option grants have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in our opinion, existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of our stock option grants. Employee Stock Purchase Plan encourage and assist employees in acquiring a stock ownership interest in Anthem. Pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Plan, an eligible employee is permitted to purchase no more than 25,000 (actual dollars) worth of stock in any calendar year, based on the fair value of the stock at the end of each plan quarter. Employees become participants by electing payroll deductions from 1% to 15% of gross compensation. Once purchased, the stock is accumulated in the employee s investment account. The Stock Purchase Plan allows participants to purchase shares of our common stock at a discounted price per share of 90% of the fair value of a share of common stock on the lower of the first or last trading day of the plan quarter purchase period. The Stock Purchase Plan discount was recognized as compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2019, based on GAAP guidance. There were 0.2 shares issued during the year ended December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2019, 4.9 shares were available for issuance under the Stock Purchase Plan. Use of Capital and Stock Repurchase Program declaration and payment of any dividends or repurchases of our common stock or debt is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends upon our financial condition, results of operations, future liquidity needs, regulatory and capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. 2019 2018 2017 Risk-free interest rate 2.69% 2.90% 2.31% Volatility factor 25.00% 30.00% 32.00% Dividend yield (annual) 1.00% 1.30% 1.60% Weighted-average expected life (years) 4.40 3.70 4.00 2019 2018 2017 Options granted during the year 68.66 55.48 40.88 Restricted stock awards granted during the year 305.88 233.73 174.44 The following weighted-average assumptions were used to estimate the fair values of options granted during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and The following weighted-average fair values were determined for the years ending December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017: The binomial lattice option-pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility. Because our stock We have registered 14.0 shares of common stock for the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or the Stock Purchase Plan, which is intended to provide a means to We regularly review the appropriate use of capital, including acquisitions, common stock and debt security repurchases and dividends to shareholders. The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. stock. This quarterly dividend is payable on March 27, 2020 to the shareholders of record as of March 16, 2020. 5,000 increase to the common stock repurchase program. Repurchases may be made from time to time at prevailing market prices, subject to certain restrictions on volume, pricing and timing. The repurchases are effected from time to time in the open market, through negotiated transactions, including accelerated share repurchase agreements, and through plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Our stock repurchase program is discretionary, as we are under no obligation to repurchase shares. We repurchase shares under the program when we believe it is a prudent use of capital. The excess cost of the repurchased shares over par value is charged on a pro rata basis to additional paid-in capital and retained earnings. Year ended December 31, 2019 Year ended December 31, 2018 2019 2018 Shares repurchased 6.3 6.8 Average price per share 268.65 248.34 Aggregate cost 1,701 1,685 Authorization remaining at end of year 3,792 5,493 A summary of the cash dividend activity for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: On January 28, 2020, our Audit Committee declared a quarterly cash dividend to shareholders of 0.95 per share on the outstanding shares of our common Under our Board of Directors authorization, we maintain a common stock repurchase program. On December 7, 2017, the Board of Directors authorized a A summary of common stock repurchases for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: We expect to utilize the remaining authorized amount over a multi-year period, subject to market and industry conditions. For additional information regarding the use of capital for debt security repurchases, see Note 12, Debt. Declaration Date Record Date Payment Date October 22, 2019 December 5, 2019 December 20, 2019 0.80 202 October 30, 2018 December 5, 2018 December 21, 2018 0.75 193 January 29, 2019 March 18, 2019 March 29, 2019 0.80 206 January 30, 2018 March 9, 2018 March 23, 2018 0.75 192 April 23, 2019 June 10, 2019 June 25, 2019 0.80 206 April 24, 2018 June 8, 2018 June 25, 2018 0.75 196 July 23, 2019 September 10, 2019 September 25, 2019 0.80 204 July 24, 2018 September 10, 2018 September 25, 2018 0.75 195 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Cash Dividend per Share Total Years Ended December 31 15. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 2019 2018 Investments: Net unrealized gains (losses) on investments 521 (159) Non-credit components of OTTI on investments: Net unrealized non-credit component of OTTI on investments (2) (2) Cash flow hedges: Net unrealized losses on cash flow hedges (262) (246) Defined benefit pension plans: Net unrecognized periodic benefit costs for defined benefit pension plans (547) (559) Postretirement benefit plans: Net unrecognized periodic benefit costs for postretirement benefit plans (4) (18) Foreign currency translation adjustments: Net unrealized losses on foreign currency translation adjustments (2) (2) Accumulated other comprehensive loss (296) (986) A reconciliation of the components of accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: Gross unrealized gains 720 173 Gross unrealized losses (44) (371) Net pretax unrealized gains (losses) 676 (198) Deferred tax (liability) asset (155) 39 Gross unrealized losses (3) (3) Deferred tax asset 1 1 Gross unrealized losses (331) (311) Deferred tax asset 69 65 Deferred net actuarial loss (734) (751) Deferred prior service cost (1) (1) Deferred tax asset 188 193 Deferred net actuarial loss (25) (58) Deferred prior service credits 19 34 Deferred tax asset 2 6 Gross unrealized losses (3) (3) Deferred tax asset 1 1 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. 16. Reinsurance contracts and are contingently liable for amounts recoverable from reinsurers in the event that such reinsurers do not meet their contractual obligations. 2019 2018 2017 Investments: Total reclassification adjustment on investments 680 (418) 173 Non-credit component of OTTI on investments: Cash flow hedges: Other: Net gain (loss) recognized in other comprehensive loss, net of tax (expense) benefit of (199), 140, and ( 99), respectively 690 (474) 166 Direct 93,953 93,505 84,835 85,213 83,974 83,418 Assumed 822 713 264 259 275 275 Ceded (45) (45) (51) (51) (44) (45) Net premiums 94,730 94,173 85,048 85,421 84,205 83,648 Percentage assumed to net premiums 0.9% 0.8% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% Other comprehensive income (loss) reclassification adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: We reinsure certain risks with other companies and assume risk from other companies. We remain primarily liable to policyholders under ceded insurance A summary of direct, assumed and ceded premiums written and earned for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: Net holding gain (loss) on investment securities arising during the period, net of tax (expense) benefit of (198), 133, and ( 153), respectively 695 (465) 280 Reclassification adjustment for net realized (gain) loss on investment securities, net of tax expense (benefit) of 4, (13), and 58, respectively (15) 47 (107) Non-credit component of OTTI on investments, net of tax benefit (expense) of 0, 1, and ( 3), respectively (2) 4 Holding (loss) gain, net of tax benefit (expense) of 4, (10), and 35, respectively (16) 37 (65) Net change in unrecognized periodic benefit costs for defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans, net of tax (expense) benefit of (9), 29, and (35), respectively 26 (90) 51 Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax expense of 0, 0, and ( 1), respectively (1) 3 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Written Earned Written Earned Written Earned 2019 2018 2017 Anthem, Inc. as follows: Reportable segments: Net premiums 94,730 94,173 85,048 85,421 84,205 83,648 2019 2018 2017 Direct 81,254 71,749 72,135 Assumed 589 219 217 Ceded (57) (73) (116) Net benefit expense 81,786 71,895 72,236 2019 2018 Policy liabilities, assumed 213 50 Unearned income, assumed 114 6 Premiums payable, ceded 11 17 Premiums receivable, assumed 35 37 A summary of net premiums written and earned by segment (see Note 19, Segment Information ) for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is The effect of reinsurance on benefit expense for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: The effect of reinsurance on certain assets and liabilities at December 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: Commercial & Specialty Business 32,113 31,944 30,661 30,532 35,382 35,503 Government Business 62,617 62,229 54,387 54,889 48,823 48,145 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Written Earned Written Earned Written Earned 2019 2018 2017 Anthem, Inc. 17. Leases constructed by the lessors and their agents. These leases have terms of up to 12 years and are expected to commence on various dates during 2020 and 2021 when the construction is complete and we take possession of the buildings. The undiscounted lease payments for these leases, which are not included in the tables above, aggregate 394. Balance Sheet Location December 31, 2019 Operating Leases Lease Expense Other information Thereafter 135 Less imputed interest (155) Right-of-use assets Other noncurrent assets 575 Lease liabilities, current Other current liabilities 158 Lease liabilities, noncurrent Other noncurrent liabilities 482 Operating lease expense 198 Short-term lease expense 46 Sublease income (16) Operating cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities, operating leases 176 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for new lease liabilities, operating leases 112 Weighted average remaining lease term, operating leases 6 years Weighted average discount rate, operating leases 4.09% Total future minimum payments 795 Total lease liabilities 640 We lease office space and certain computer and related equipment using noncancelable operating leases. Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1 year to 15 The information related to our leases is as follows: Lease expense for 2018 and 2017 was 207 and 205, respectively. At December 31, 2019, future lease payments for noncancelable operating leases with initial or remaining terms of one year or more are as follows: As of December 31, 2019, we have additional operating leases for building spaces that have not yet commenced, and some building spaces are being Total lease expense 228 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Year Ended December 31, 18. Earnings per Share excluded from the denominator for diluted earnings per share because the stock options were anti-dilutive. The Equity Unit purchase contracts were settled in May 2018, and approximately 6.0 shares of our common stock were issued and included in the basic earnings per share calculation. contingent upon us meeting certain earnings targets. Contingent restricted stock units are excluded from the denominator for diluted earnings per share and are included only if and when the contingency is met. The 2019 contingent restricted stock units are being measured over the three year period of 2019 through 2021, the 2018 contingent restricted stock units are being measured over the three year period of 2018 through 2020 and the 2017 contingent restricted stock units are being measured over the three year period of 2017 through 2019. Contingent restricted stock units generally vest in March of the year following each measurement period. 19. Segment Information Commercial & Specialty Business segment offer fully-insured health products provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers including claims processing, underwriting, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and other administrative services and provide an array of specialty and other insurance products and services such as dental, vision, life and disability insurance benefits. federal government in connection with the FEHB program. Our Medicare business includes services such as Medicare Supplement plans Medicare Advantage, including Special Needs Plans Medicare Part D and dual-eligible programs through Medicare-Medicaid Plans. Our Medicaid business includes our managed care alternatives through publicly funded healthcare programs, including Medicaid, ACA-related Medicaid expansion programs, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families programs, programs for seniors and people with disabilities, Children s Health Insurance Programs, and specialty programs such as those focused on long-term services and support, HIV AIDS, foster care, behavioral health and or substance abuse disorders, and intellectual disabilities or developmental disabilities. NGS acts as a Medicare contractor for the federal government in several regions across the nation. segments. Beginning with the second quarter of 2019, our Other segment also includes IngenioRx, our PBM, which began operations during the second quarter of 2019. In addition, during the second quarter, we reclassified our integrated health services business, our Diversified Business Group, or DBG, from our Government Business segment to the Other segment to reflect changes in how our segments are being managed. Amounts for prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation for comparability. Based on the FASB guidance, as of December 31, 2019, IngenioRx and DBG did not collectively meet the quantitative thresholds for a reportable segment. 2019 2018 2017 Denominator for basic earnings per share weighted-average shares 255.5 258.1 261.5 Effect of dilutive securities employee stock options, non-vested restricted stock awards, convertible debentures Denominator for diluted earnings per share 260.3 264.2 267.8 and equity units 4.8 6.1 6.3 The denominator for basic and diluted earnings per share at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: During the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, weighted-average shares related to certain stock options of 0.6, 0.3 and 0.4, respectively, were During the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we issued approximately 0.2, 0.3 and 0.4 restricted stock units, respectively, of which vesting was Our organizational structure is comprised of three reportable segments: Commercial & Specialty Business Government Business and Other. Our Commercial & Specialty Business segment includes our Local Group, National Accounts, Individual and Specialty businesses. Business units in the Our Government Business segment includes our Medicare and Medicaid businesses, National Government Services, or NGS, and services provided to the Prior to the second quarter of 2019, our Other segment included certain eliminations and corporate expenses not allocated to either of our other reportable Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. received, primarily from the sale and administration of health benefit products. Operating gain is calculated as total operating revenue less benefit expense, cost of products sold and selling, general and administrative expense. from agencies of the U.S. government for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. These revenues are contained in the Government Business segment. and Significant Accounting Policies, except that certain shared administrative expenses for each segment are recognized on a pro rata allocated basis, which in the aggregate approximates the consolidated expense. Any difference between the allocated expenses and actual consolidated expense is included in other expenses not allocated to reportable segments. Affiliated revenues represent revenues or cost for services provided by IngenioRx and DBG to our subsidiaries, are recorded at cost or management s estimate of fair market value, and are eliminated in consolidation. We evaluate performance of the reportable segments based on operating gain or loss as defined above. We evaluate net investment income, net realized gains on financial instruments, OTTI losses recognized in income, interest expense, amortization expense, gain or loss on extinguishment of debt, income taxes and assets and liabilities on a consolidated basis, as these items are managed in a corporate shared service environment and are not the responsibility of segment operating management. Business and Government Business based upon their utilization of services from IngenioRx and DBG. Year ended December 31, 2019 Operating revenue - unaffiliated 37,421 62,632 3,088 103,141 Operating revenue - affiliated 4,607 (4,607) Operating gain (loss) 4,046 2,054 (101) 5,999 Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment 675 675 Year ended December 31, 2018 Operating revenue - unaffiliated 35,782 55,348 211 91,341 Operating revenue - affiliated 1,308 (1,308) Operating gain (loss) 3,600 1,928 (102) 5,426 Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment 652 652 Year ended December 31, 2017 Operating revenue - unaffiliated 40,363 48,587 111 89,061 Operating revenue - affiliated 16 (16) Operating gain (loss) 2,847 1,442 (114) 4,175 Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment 601 601 We define operating revenues to include premium income and administrative fees and other revenues. Operating revenues are derived from premiums and fees Through our participation in various federal government programs, we generated approximately 20.7%, 19.8% and 17.8% of our total consolidated revenues The accounting policies of the segments are consistent with those described in the summary of significant accounting policies in Note 2, Basis of Presentation For our segment reporting, operating gains (losses) generated from IngenioRx and DBG affiliated activity have been included in our Commercial & Specialty Financial data by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Commercial & Anthem, Inc. Specialty Business Government Business Other Eliminations Total Managed care products represent insurance products where we bear the insurance risk, whereas managed care services represent product offerings where we provide claims adjudication and other administrative services to the customer, but the customer principally bears the insurance risk. ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: 2019 2018 2017 Commercial & Specialty Business Managed care products 30,311 29,012 33,971 Managed care services 5,451 5,218 4,732 Dental Vision products and services 1,302 1,220 1,218 Other 357 332 442 Total Commercial & Specialty Business 37,421 35,782 40,363 Government Business Managed care products 62,229 54,889 48,144 Managed care services 403 459 443 Total Government Business 62,632 55,348 48,587 Other Other 7,695 1,519 127 Eliminations Eliminations (4,607) (1,308) (16) Total product revenues 103,141 91,341 89,061 2019 2018 2017 Reportable segments operating revenues 103,141 91,341 89,061 Net investment income 1,005 970 867 Net realized gains (losses) on financial instruments 114 (180) 145 Other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income (47) (26) (33) Total revenues 104,213 92,105 90,040 The major product revenues for each of the reportable segments for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: The classification between managed care products and managed care services in the above table primarily distinguishes between the levels of risk assumed. Asset, liability and equity details by reportable segment have not been disclosed, as we do not internally report such information. A reconciliation of reportable segments operating revenue to the amounts of total revenues included in our consolidated statements of income for the years Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: 20. Related Party Transactions other administrative services for us and certain other BCBS plans. Administrative expenses incurred related to NASCO services totaled 78, 79 and 73, for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Amounts due to NASCO were 4 and 5 at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. course of business, we assumed premiums of 408 from APC Passe, LLC, which is included in our total assumed premiums (see Note 16, Reinsurance ). 21. Statutory Information regulatory authorities, commonly referred to as statutory accounting, which vary in certain respects from GAAP. However, certain of our insurance and HMO subsidiaries, including BCC, Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc., Golden West Health Plan, Inc. and CareMore Health Plan are regulated by the California Department of Managed Health Care, or DMHC, and report their accounts in conformity with GAAP (these entities are collectively referred to as the DMHC regulated entities ). Typical differences of GAAP reporting as compared to statutory reporting are the recognition of all assets including those that are non-admitted for statutory purposes and recognition of all deferred tax assets without regard to statutory limits. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, developed a codified version of the statutory accounting principles, designed to foster more consistency among the states for accounting guidelines and reporting. Prescribed statutory accounting practices are set forth in a variety of publications of the NAIC as well as state laws, regulations and general administrative rules. our insurance and HMO subsidiaries without prior approval of the insurance departments of each subsidiary s domiciliary jurisdiction is limited by formula. Dividends in excess of these amounts are subject to prior approval by the respective state insurance departments or the DMHC. determine the minimum amount of statutory capital appropriate for an insurance company or HMO to support its overall business operations in consideration of its size and risk profile. The formula for determining the amount of RBC specifies various factors, weighted based on the perceived degree of risk, which are applied to certain financial balances and financial activity. Below minimum RBC requirements are classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective action. Additionally, the DMHC regulated entities are subject to capital and solvency requirements as prescribed by the DMHC. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, all of our regulated subsidiaries exceeded the minimum applicable mandatory RBC requirements and or capital and solvency requirements of their applicable governmental regulator. The statutory RBC necessary to satisfy regulatory requirements of our statutory basis insurance and HMO subsidiaries was approximately 5,500 and 4,800 as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The tangible net 2019 2018 2017 Reportable segments operating gain 5,999 5,426 4,175 Net investment income 1,005 970 867 Net realized gains (losses) on financial instruments 114 (180) 145 Other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income (47) (26) (33) Interest expense (746) (753) (739) Amortization of other intangible assets (338) (358) (169) Loss on extinguishment of debt (2) (11) (282) Income before income tax expense 5,985 5,068 3,964 A reconciliation of reportable segments operating gain to income before income tax expense included in our consolidated statements of income for the years We have a 19.50% equity investment in National Accounts Service Company, LLC, or NASCO, which processes National Accounts claims and provides We have an equity investment in APC Passe, LLC, which offers Medicaid products in Arkansas. During the year ended December 31, 2019, in the normal The majority of our insurance and HMO subsidiaries report their accounts in conformity with accounting practices prescribed or permitted by state insurance Our ability to pay dividends and credit obligations is significantly dependent on receipt of dividends from our subsidiaries. The payment of dividends to us by Our statutory basis insurance and HMO subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital, or RBC, requirements. RBC is a method developed by the NAIC to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. equity required for the DMHC regulated entities was approximately 610 and 570 as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. regulated entities, was 13,044 and 12,038 at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Statutory-basis net income of our insurance and HMO subsidiaries and net income of our other regulated subsidiaries, excluding the DMHC regulated entities, was 3,840, 3,412 and 2,674 for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. GAAP equity of the DMHC regulated entities was 3,359 and 3,125 at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. GAAP net income of the DMHC regulated entities was 878, 789 and 1,047 for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 22. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE. ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES. Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting them to material information relating to us (including our consolidated subsidiaries) required to be disclosed in our reports under the Exchange Act. In addition, based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. For the Quarter Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 2019 Total revenues 24,666 25,466 26,674 27,407 Income before income tax expense 1,945 1,453 1,489 1,098 Net income 1,551 1,139 1,183 934 Basic net income per share 6.03 4.44 4.64 3.69 Diluted net income per share 5.91 4.36 4.55 3.62 2018 Total revenues 22,537 22,944 23,251 23,373 Income before income tax expense 1,780 1,504 1,242 542 Net income 1,312 1,054 960 424 Basic net income per share 5.13 4.07 3.70 1.64 Diluted net income per share 4.99 3.98 3.62 1.61 Statutory-basis capital and surplus of our insurance and HMO subsidiaries and capital and surplus of our other regulated subsidiaries, excluding the DMHC Selected quarterly financial data is as follows: There have been no changes in or disagreements with our independent registered public accounting firm on accounting or financial disclosures. We carried out an evaluation as of December 31, 2019, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) Anthem, Inc. Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Company, is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, or Internal Control, as such term is defined in the Exchange Act. The Company s Internal Control is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of the Company s financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The Company s Internal Control includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Accordingly, even effective Internal Control can provide only reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. Company s Internal Control as of December 31, 2019. Management s assessment was based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP. year ended December 31, 2019, and has also issued an audit report dated February 19, 2020, on the effectiveness of the Company s Internal Control as of December 31, 2019, which is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Other than these new controls, there have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the three months ended December 31, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. S GAIL K. BOUDREAUX S JOHN E. GALLINA President and Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Management, under the supervision and with the participation of the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of Anthem, Inc., or the Because of inherent limitations in any Internal Control, no matter how well designed, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Management, under the supervision and with the participation of the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, assessed the effectiveness of the Based on management s assessment, management has concluded that the Company s Internal Control was effective as of December 31, 2019 to provide Ernst & Young LLP, the Company s independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the consolidated financial statements of the Company for the During the three months ended December 31, 2019, we implemented certain additional internal controls associated with our new IngenioRx PBM business. Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Anthem, Inc. Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting We have audited Anthem, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Anthem, Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on the COSO criteria. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of Anthem, Inc. as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(c) and our report dated February 19, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Indianapolis, Indiana February 19, 2020 s ERNST & YOUNG LLP ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION. ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE. expert(s) and concerning disclosure of any delinquent filers under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act and our Code of Conduct is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive Proxy Statement for our 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of our last fiscal year. ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION. Officers and Directors and Compensation Committee interlocks, as well as the Compensation Committee Report and CEO Pay Ratio disclosure are incorporated herein by reference from our definitive Proxy Statement for our 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of our last fiscal year. ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans 1 We have no equity compensation plans pursuant to which awards may be granted in the future that have not been approved by shareholders. 2 Includes shares that may be issued under the Anthem Incentive Compensation Plan and the Anthem 2017 Incentive Compensation Plan pursuant to the following outstanding awards: 3,143,948 stock options, 575,389 unvested restricted stock units, and 2,291,794 performance stock units (assuming that the outstanding performance stock units are earned at the maximum award level). 3 Represents the weighted average exercise price of outstanding stock options. Does not take into consideration outstanding restricted stock units or performance stock units, which, once vested, may be converted into shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis upon distribution at no additional cost. 4 Excludes securities reflected in the first column, Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights . Includes 20,528,003 shares of common stock available for issuance as stock options, restricted stock awards, performance stock awards, performance awards and stock appreciation rights under the Anthem 2017 Incentive Compensation Plan at December 31, 2019. Includes 4,853,107 shares of common stock available for issuance under the Stock Purchase Plan at December 31, 2019. from our definitive Proxy Statement for our 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of our last fiscal year. Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders as of December 31, The information required by this Item concerning our Executive Officers, Directors and nominees for Director, Audit Committee members and financial The information required by this Item concerning remuneration of our Executive Officers and Directors, material transactions involving such Executive The information required by this Item concerning the stock ownership of management and five percent beneficial owners is incorporated herein by reference 2019 6,011,131 190.31 25,381,110 Securities authorized for issuance under the our equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2019 are as follows: outstanding options, warrants and Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and Weighted-average exercise price of securities reflected in column (a))4 future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding remaining available for Number of securities ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE. reference from our definitive Proxy Statement for our 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of our last fiscal year. ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES. Statement for our 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of our last fiscal year. The information required by this Item concerning certain relationships and related person transactions and director independence is incorporated herein by The information required by this Item concerning principal accountant fees and services is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive Proxy ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES. Exhibit Number Exhibit (a) 1. Financial Statements: 2. Financial Statement Schedule: are inapplicable, or the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements, and therefore, have been omitted. 3. Exhibits required to be filed as part of this report: The following consolidated financial statements of the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8: Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements The following financial statement schedule of the Company is included in Item 15(c): Schedule II Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company Only). All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations of the SEC are not required under the related instructions, Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 23, 2015 among Anthem, Inc., Anthem Merger Sub. Corp. and Cigna Corporation, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 27, 2015. Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company, as amended and restated effective May 15, 2019, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 15, 2019. Bylaws of the Company, as amended effective May 15, 2019, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K A filed on June 5, 2019. Form of Specimen Certificate of the Company s common stock, 0.01 par value per share, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company s Post-Effective Amendment No.1 to Form S-8 Registration Statement filed on May 23, 2017. Indenture, dated as of December 9, 2004, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, including the Form of the Company s 5.950% Notes due 2034, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 15, 2004. Indenture, dated as of January 10, 2006, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8- K filed on January 11, 2006. (a) Form of 5.85% Notes due 2036, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 11, 2006. (b) Form of 6.375% Notes due 2037, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 8, 2007. Exhibit Number Exhibit (c) Form of 4.350% Notes due 2020, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2010. (d) Form of 5.800% Notes due 2040, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2010. (e) Form of 3.700% Notes due 2021, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 15, 2011. (f) Form of 3.125% Notes due 2022, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 7, 2012. (g) Form of 4.625% Notes due 2042, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 7, 2012. (h) Form of 3.300% Notes due 2023, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 10, 2012. (i) Form of 4.650% Notes due 2043, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 10, 2012. (j) Form of 5.100% Notes due 2044, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 31, 2013. (k) Form of 3.500% Notes due 2024, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2014. (l) Form of 4.650% Notes due 2044, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2014. (m) Form of 4.850% Notes due 2054, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2014. Indenture dated as of October 9, 2012 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. as trustee, including the Form of the 2.750% Senior Convertible Debentures due 2042, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 9, 2012. Subordinated Indenture, dated as of May 12, 2015, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 12, 2015. Indenture dated as of November 21, 2017 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. as trustee, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 21, 2017. (a) Form of 2.500% Notes due 2020, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 21, 2017. (b) Form of 2.950% Notes due 2022, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 21, 2017. (c) Form of 3.350% Notes due 2024, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 21, 2017. (d) Form of 3.650% Notes due 2027, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 21, 2017. (e) Form of 4.375% Notes due 2047, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 21, 2017. (f) Form of 4.101% Notes due 2028, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 2, 2018. (g) Form of 4.550% Notes due 2048, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 2, 2018. (h) Form of 2.375% Notes due 2025, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 9, 2019. 4.7 Upon the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company will furnish copies of any other instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company or its subsidiaries. 4.8 Description of the Company s Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act. 10.1 Anthem Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective December 2, 2014, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the 10.2 2017 Anthem Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective October 1, 2019, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Exhibit Number Exhibit Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 2, 2014. (a) Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement for 2014, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(p) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2014. (b) Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement for 2015, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(n) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2015. (c) Form of Amendment, dated March 9, 2016, to Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement for 2014, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(m) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2016. (d) Form of Amendment, dated March 9, 2016, to Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement for 2015, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(p) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2016. (e) Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement for 2016 and 2017, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(s) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2016. (f) Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for 2017, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(t) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2016. Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2019. (a) Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement for 2017, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1(r) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017. (b) Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement for the Chief Executive Officer for 2017, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(b) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. (c) Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement for 2018, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(d) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018. (d) Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for 2018, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(e) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018. (e) Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement for 2018, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(f) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018. (f) Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement commencing July 2018, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(h) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2018. (g) Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement commencing July 2018, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(i) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2018. Form of 2.875% Notes due 2029, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 9, 2019. Form of 3.700% Notes due 2049, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 9, 2019. 10.3 Anthem, Inc. Comprehensive Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective October 1, 2019, incorporated by 10.4 Anthem, Inc. Executive Agreement Plan, as amended and restated effective December 2, 2014, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the 10.5 Anthem, Inc. Executive Salary Continuation Plan, as amended and restated effective December 2, 2014, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 Anthem, Inc. Directed Executive Compensation Plan amended effective January 1, 2020. 10.7 Anthem, Inc. Board of Directors Compensation Program, as amended effective May 15, 2019, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the 10.8 Anthem Board of Directors Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective December 2, 2014, incorporated by reference to 10.9 (a) Form of Employment Agreement between the Company and each of the following: John E. Gallina, Peter D. Haytaian, Gloria McCarthy and Thomas C. Zielinski, incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Exhibit 10.41 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. 10.10 Offer Letter, by and between the Company and Gail Boudreaux, dated as of November 5, 2017, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Exhibit Number Exhibit (h) Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement commencing July 2018, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(j) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2018. (i) Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement for 2019, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(l) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2019. (j) Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for 2019, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(m) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2019. (k) Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement for 2019, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(n) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2019. reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2019. Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. (a) First Amendment, dated March 9, 2016, to Executive Agreement Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2016. (b) Second Amendment, dated January 6, 2017, to Executive Agreement Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3(b) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. (c) Third Amendment, dated August 27, 2018, to Executive Agreement Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4(c) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2018. 10.5 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2019. Exhibit 10.8 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. (b) Form of Employment Agreement between the Company and Gail Boudreaux, incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 6, 2017. (c) Form of Employment Agreement between the Company and each of the following: Felicia F. Norwood, Prakash Patel and Leah Stark incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9(d) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2018. Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 6, 2017. Blue Cross License Agreement by and between Blue Cross Blue Shield Association and the Company, including revisions, if any, adopted by the Member Plans through November 21, 2019. Blue Shield License Agreement by and between Blue Cross Blue Shield Association and the Company, including revisions, if any, adopted by the Member Plans through November 21, 2019. ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY. 21 Subsidiaries of the Company. 23 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File formatted in Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101. Indicates management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements. Exhibit Number Exhibit (b) Exhibits (c) Financial Statement Schedule The response to this portion of Item 15 is set forth in paragraph (a) 3 above. Schedule II Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company Only). Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Exchange Act Rules, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Exchange Act Rules, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The following materials from Anthem, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, formatted in Inline XBRL (Inline Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Income (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (v) the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity (vi) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and (vii) Financial Statement Schedule II. The instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document. Schedule II Condensed Financial Information of Registrant See accompanying notes. (In millions, except share data) Current assets: Total current assets 4,020 2,615 Long-term investments: Property and equipment, net 170 186 Deferred tax assets, net 216 209 Investments in subsidiaries 47,423 44,877 Other noncurrent assets 263 225 Total assets 52,749 48,734 Liabilities and shareholders equity Liabilities Current liabilities: Total current liabilities 2,748 2,660 Long-term debt, less current portion 17,762 17,192 Other noncurrent liabilities 511 341 Total liabilities 21,021 20,193 Commitments and contingencies Note 5 Shareholders equity Preferred stock, without par value, shares authorized - 100,000,000 shares issued and outstanding - none Common stock, par value 0.01, shares authorized - 900,000,000 shares issued and outstanding - 252,922,161 and 257,395,577 3 3 Additional paid-in capital 9,448 9,536 Retained earnings 22,573 19,988 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (296) (986) Total shareholders equity 31,728 28,541 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 52,749 48,734 Cash and cash equivalents 1,818 1,290 Fixed maturity securities, current (amortized cost of 592 and 589) 602 573 Equity securities, current 253 86 Other invested assets, current 4 10 Other receivables 92 131 Income taxes receivable 170 Net due from subsidiaries 602 170 Securities lending collateral 17 35 Other current assets 462 320 Equity securities 6 6 Other invested assets, long-term 651 616 Accounts payable and accrued expenses 887 1,429 Security trades pending payable 9 Securities lending payable 17 35 Income taxes payable 112 Current portion of long-term debt 1,598 849 Other current liabilities 237 235 Anthem, Inc. (Parent Company Only) Balance Sheets December 31, December 31, See accompanying notes. Years ended December 31 (In millions) 2019 2018 2017 Revenues Net investment income 81 39 64 Net realized losses on financial instruments (65) (46) (18) Other-than-temporary impairment losses on investments: Administrative fees and other revenue 22 2 Total revenues (losses) 18 (20) 39 Expenses General and administrative expense 88 86 437 Interest expense 723 723 727 Loss on extinguishment of debt 2 11 283 Total expenses 813 820 1,447 Loss before income tax credits and equity in net income of subsidiaries (795) (840) (1,408) Income tax credits (251) (238) (216) Equity in net income of subsidiaries 5,351 4,352 5,035 Net income 4,807 3,750 3,843 Total other-than-temporary impairment losses on investments (23) (15) (7) Portion of other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in other comprehensive income Other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income (20) (15) (7) (loss) 3 Anthem, Inc. (Parent Company Only) Statements of Income See accompanying notes. Years ended December 31 (in millions) 2019 2018 2017 Net income 4,807 3,750 3,843 Other comprehensive income, net of tax: Change in net unrealized gains losses on investments 680 (418) 173 Change in non-credit component of other-than-temporary impairment losses on investments (2) 4 Change in net unrealized gains losses on cash flow hedges (16) 37 (65) Change in net periodic pension and postretirement costs 26 (90) 51 Foreign currency translation adjustments (1) 3 Other comprehensive income (loss) 690 (474) 166 Total comprehensive income 5,497 3,276 4,009 Anthem, Inc. (Parent Company Only) Statements of Comprehensive Income See accompanying notes. Years ended December 31 (In millions) 2019 2018 2017 Operating activities Net income 4,807 3,750 3,843 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Net cash provided by operating activities 2,411 5,975 1,213 Investing activities Purchases of investments (9,682) (800) (3,814) Proceeds from sales, maturities, calls and redemptions of investments 9,457 1,865 2,595 Changes in collateral and settlement of non-hedging derivatives 65 Capitalization of subsidiaries (232) (4,379) (124) Changes in securities lending collateral 18 (21) 25 Purchases of property and equipment, net of sales (54) (137) (44) Other, net 4 18 Net cash used in investing activities (493) (3,468) (1,279) Financing activities Net (repayments of) proceeds from commercial paper borrowings (297) (107) 175 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 2,473 835 5,458 Repayments of long-term borrowings (1,123) (1,684) (2,815) Changes in securities lending payable (18) 21 (25) Changes in bank overdrafts 64 (107) 51 Premiums paid on equity call options (1) Proceeds from sale of put options 1 1 Proceeds from issuance of common stock under Equity Units stock purchase contracts 1,250 Repurchase and retirement of common stock (1,701) (1,685) (1,998) Change in collateral and settlements of debt-related derivatives (34) 23 (149) Cash dividends (856) (812) (737) Proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans 187 173 225 Taxes paid through withholding of common stock under employee stock plans (84) (81) (47) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (1,390) (2,173) 139 Change in cash and cash equivalents 528 334 73 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,290 956 883 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1,818 1,290 956 Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries (1,561) (744) (2,437) Net realized losses on financial instruments 65 46 18 Other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income 20 15 7 Loss on extinguishment of debt 2 11 283 Deferred income taxes 2 (43) (33) Amortization, net of accretion 37 43 25 Depreciation expense 69 70 69 Share-based compensation 294 226 170 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Receivables, net 41 (73) (17) Other invested assets, current 6 (5) (1) Other assets (235) (225) (102) Amounts due (from) to subsidiaries (432) 2,259 (1,034) Accounts payable and accrued expenses (608) 303 491 Other liabilities 186 154 (61) Income taxes (282) 187 (6) Other, net 1 (2) Anthem, Inc. (Parent Company Only) Statements of Cash Flows 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies earnings of the subsidiaries. Anthem s share of net income of its unconsolidated subsidiaries is included in income using the equity method of accounting. accompanying notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2. Subsidiary Transactions Dividends from Subsidiaries Dividends to Subsidiaries the amount of 38, 36 and 32 during 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Investments in Subsidiaries Amounts Due to and From Subsidiaries primarily include amounts for allocated administrative expenses or daily cash management activities. These items are routinely settled, and as such, are classified as current assets or liabilities. Guarantees on Behalf of Subsidiaries December 31, 2019. There were no payments made on these guarantees in 2019. 3. Derivative Financial Instruments Statements of Anthem and its subsidiaries, included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is incorporated herein by reference. 4. Long-Term Debt included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is incorporated herein by reference. In the parent company only financial statements of Anthem, Inc., or Anthem, Anthem s investment in subsidiaries is stated at cost plus equity in undistributed Certain amounts presented in the parent company only financial statements are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements of Anthem. Anthem s parent company only financial statements should be read in conjunction with Anthem s audited consolidated financial statements and the Anthem received cash dividends from subsidiaries of 3,790, 3,606 and 2,268 during 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Certain subsidiaries of Anthem own shares of Anthem common stock. Anthem paid cash dividends to subsidiaries related to these shares of common stock in Capital contributions to subsidiaries were 232, 4,379 and 124 during 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, Anthem reported amounts due from subsidiaries of 602 and 170, respectively. The amounts due from subsidiaries Anthem guarantees contractual or financial obligations or solvency requirements for certain of its subsidiaries. These guarantees approximated 569 at The information regarding derivative financial instruments contained in Note 5, Derivative Financial Instruments, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial The information regarding long-term debt contained in Note 12, Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of Anthem and its subsidiaries, Notes to Condensed Financial Statements (In Millions, Except Per Share Data) (Parent Company Only) December 31, 2019 Anthem, Inc. 5. Commitments and Contingencies Statements of Anthem and its subsidiaries, included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is incorporated herein by reference. 6. Capital Stock subsidiaries, included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is incorporated herein by reference. obligations of Anthem, Inc. (Parent Company). At December 31, 2019, these leases had an aggregate right-of-use asset of 99, a lease liability balance of 83, operating lease expense of 7 and future lease payments as follows: 2020, 11 2021, 11 2022, 11 2023, 12 2024, 11 and thereafter 70. All other information regarding leases is contained in Note 17, Leases, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of Anthem and its subsidiaries, included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The information regarding commitments and contingencies contained in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial The information regarding capital stock contained in Note 14, Capital Stock, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of Anthem and its Beginning in 2019, certain of our leases, including the lease for our principal executive offices located at 220 Virginia Avenue, Indianapolis, Indiana, are by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. Dated: February 19, 2020 in the capacities and on the dates indicated. Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and s RONALD W. PENCZEK s ROBERT L. DIXON, JR. Director February 19, 2020 s ELIZABETH E. TALLETT Chair of the Board February 19, 2020 s JOHN E. GALLINA s GAIL K. BOUDREAUX s RAMIRO G. PERU Director February 19, 2020 s RYAN M. SCHNEIDER Director February 19, 2020 s R. KERRY CLARK Director February 19, 2020 s JULIE A. HILL Director February 19, 2020 s ANTONIO F. NERI Director February 19, 2020 s LEWIS HAY III Director February 19, 2020 s BAHIJA JALLAL Director February 19, 2020 Robert L. Dixon, Jr. Ronald W. Penczek Elizabeth E. Tallett Ryan M. Schneider Gail K. Boudreaux Ramiro G. Peru John E. Gallina Antonio F. Neri R. Kerry Clark Lewis Hay III Bahija Jallal Julie A. Hill Signature Title Date President and Chief Executive Officer, Director (Principal Executive Officer) Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) ANTHEM, INC. By: s GAIL K. BOUDREAUX SIGNATURES President and Chief Executive Officer Gail K. Boudreaux February 19, 2020 February 19, 2020 February 19, 2020 The common stock of Anthem, Inc. ( Anthem, we, our, or us ) is the only class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. qualified by reference to our amended and restated articles of incorporation, as amended (our articles of incorporation ) and our bylaws, as amended (our bylaws ), both of which are filed as exhibits to our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). For additional information, please read our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and the applicable provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law, as amended (the IBCL ). without par value. We have no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding. cumulative voting rights in the election of directors or any other matter. of that share to an equal and ratable right to receive dividends or other distributions (other than purchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares by us) if declared from time to time by our board of directors and if there are sufficient funds to legally pay a dividend. all assets remaining after payments to creditors and after satisfaction of the liquidation preference, if any, of the holders of any preferred stock that may at the time be outstanding. agent, conversion agent and dividend disbursing agent for the common stock. Authorized But Unissued Shares corporate purposes, including future public or private offerings to raise additional capital or to facilitate corporate acquisitions. One of the effects of the existence of authorized but unissued shares may be to enable our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, which issuance could render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, and thereby protect the continuity of current management and possibly deprive the shareholders of opportunities to sell their shares of common stock at prices higher than prevailing market prices. In addition, depending on the rights prescribed for any series of preferred stock that may be issued, the issuance of preferred stock could have an adverse effect on the voting power of the holders of common stock or could impose restrictions upon the payment of dividends and other distributions to the holders of common stock. Limitations on Ownership of Our Common Stock in Articles of Incorporation ownership of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation provide that no person may beneficially own shares of voting capital stock in excess of specified ownership limits, except with the prior approval of a majority of the continuing directors. The ownership limits, which may not be exceeded without the prior approval of the BCBSA, are the following: transferee acquiring no rights in the shares exceeding such ownership limit (with certain exceptions) and the person s excess shares will be deemed transferred to an escrow agent to be held until the shares are transferred to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the ownership limit. Certain Other Provisions of Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws These provisions could have the effect of discouraging third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition or change in control of us, although these proposals, if made, might be considered desirable by a majority of our shareholders. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to cause the replacement of the current management without the concurrence of the board of directors. These provisions include: DESCRIPTION OF THE REGISTRANT S SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT The following is a summary of the general terms and provisions of our common stock. This summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and We are authorized to issue up to 900,000,000 shares of common stock, par value 0.01 per share, as well as up to 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, Each holder of our common stock is entitled to one vote per share of record on all matters to be voted upon by the shareholders. Holders do not have Subject to the preferential rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may at the time be outstanding, each share of common stock will entitle the holder In the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of common stock will be entitled to share ratably in Holders of common stock have no preemptive or redemption rights and will not be subject to further calls or assessments by us. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ANTM. Computershare Trust Company, N.A. is the registrar, transfer Indiana law does not require shareholder approval for any issuance of authorized shares. Authorized but unissued shares may be used for a variety of As required under our licenses with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA ), our articles of incorporation contain certain limitations on the Any transfer of stock that would result in any person beneficially owning shares of capital stock in excess of any ownership limit will result in the intended Certain other provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions or changes of control of us. representing a 20% ownership interest in us. for any institutional investor (as defined in our articles of incorporation), one share less than 10% of our outstanding voting securities for any non-institutional investor (as defined in our articles of incorporation), one share less than 5% of our outstanding voting securities and for any person, one share less than the number of shares of our common stock or other equity securities (or a combination thereof) the division of the board of directors into three classes serving staggered terms of office of three years provisions limiting the maximum number of directors to 19 provisions requiring that, except in certain limited circumstances, the filling of any vacancy on the board of directors must be approved by a Exhibit 4.8 notice and proxy access procedures with regard to the nomination of candidates for election as directors, other than by or at the direction of the board of directors. Although our bylaws do not give the board of directors any power to approve or disapprove shareholder nominations for the election of directors or proposals for action, they may have the effect of precluding a contest for the election of directors or the consideration of shareholder proposals if the established procedures are not followed, and of discouraging or deterring a third party from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect its own slate of directors or to approve its proposal without regard to whether consideration of those nominees or proposals might be harmful or beneficial to us and our shareholders. action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (b) any action asserting a claim for breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or certain specified constituents of ours, (c) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the IBCL or our articles of incorporation or bylaws, or (d) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine, will be, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Marion Superior Court in Marion County, Indiana or, if the Marion Superior Court lacks jurisdiction, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Indiana. Amendment and Repeal of Bylaws entire number of directors, or (2) except for certain provisions of the bylaws, the affirmative vote, at a shareholder meeting, of at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the outstanding shares of all classes of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, considered for this purpose as a single voting group. Certain Provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law make more difficult certain unsolicited acquisitions or changes of control of us. These provisions also may have the effect of preventing changes in our management. It is possible that these provisions could make it more difficult to accomplish transactions which shareholders may otherwise deem to be in their best interest. direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares in an issuing public corporation may not exercise voting rights on any control shares unless these voting rights are conferred by a majority vote of the disinterested shareholders of the issuing public corporation at a special meeting of those shareholders held upon the request and at the expense of the acquiring person. If the acquiring person has acquired control shares with a majority of the voting power and the control shares are accorded full voting rights by the disinterested shareholders, the disinterested shareholders of the issuing public corporation have dissenters rights to receive the fair value of their shares pursuant to Chapter 44 of the IBCL. We are an issuing public corporation as defined under Chapter 42. person or in respect to which that person may exercise or direct the exercise of voting power, would otherwise entitle that person to exercise voting power of the issuing public corporation in the election of directors within any of the following ranges: (i) one-fifth or more but less than one-third (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority or (iii) a majority or more. the corporation s board of directors, provide that they do not apply. Our bylaws provide that we are not subject to Chapter 42 however, our board of directors could amend our bylaws to rescind our election to opt out of Chapter 42. combinations with an interested shareholder for five years after the date the shareholder became an interested shareholder (such date, the share acquisition date ), unless the combination or the purchase of shares by the interested shareholder on the interested shareholder s share acquisition date is approved by the board of directors of the corporation before the share acquisition date. If such prior approval is not obtained, the interested shareholder may effect a combination after the five-year period only if that shareholder receives approval from a majority of the disinterested shareholders or the offer meets specified fair price criteria. directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation or (2) an affiliate or associate of the corporation, which at any time within the five-year period immediately before the date in question, was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of the corporation. of the disinterested shareholders. That amendment, however, cannot become effective until 18 months after its passage and would apply only to share acquisitions occurring after its effective date. Our articles of incorporation do not exclude us from Chapter 43. Section 12 of the Exchange Act must have a classified board of directors unless the corporation adopts a bylaw expressly electing not to be governed by this provision. Although our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide for a classified board of directors so long as we are required to do so under our licenses with the BCBSA, we adopted an amendment to our bylaws electing not to be subject to this mandatory requirement effective July 29, 2009. permitted to be taken by the holders of common stock may be effected only at an annual meeting or special meeting of such holders, and shareholders may act in lieu of such meetings only by unanimous written consent. Our bylaws establish an advance notice procedure with regard to business to be brought before an annual or special meeting of shareholders and advance In addition, our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for (a) any derivative Our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide that the bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed by either (1) the affirmative vote of a majority of the As an Indiana corporation, we are governed by the IBCL. The following are some of the more significant provisions of the IBCL that may delay, prevent or Control Share Acquisitions. Under Chapter 42 of the IBCL, an acquiring person or group who acquires, directly or indirectly, ownership of, or the power to Under Chapter 42, control shares means shares acquired by a person that, when added to all other shares of the issuing public corporation owned by that Chapter 42 does not apply if, before a control share acquisition is made, the corporation s articles of incorporation or bylaws, including a bylaw adopted by Certain Business Combinations. Chapter 43 of the IBCL restricts the ability of an Indiana corporation that has 100 or more shareholders to engage in any For purposes of Chapter 43, interested shareholder means any person, other than the corporation or its subsidiaries, who is (1) the beneficial owner, Chapter 43 does not apply to corporations that elect not to be subject to Chapter 43 in an amendment to their articles of incorporation approved by a majority Mandatory Classified Board of Directors. Under Chapter 33 of the IBCL, a corporation with a class of voting shares registered with the SEC under Unanimous Written Consent of Shareholders. Under Chapter 29 of the IBCL, as well as our articles of incorporation and our bylaws, any action required or requirements for advance notice for raising business or making nominations at shareholders meetings. majority of continuing directors and The common stock of Anthem, Inc. ( Anthem, we, our, or us ) is the only class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. qualified by reference to our amended and restated articles of incorporation, as amended (our articles of incorporation ) and our bylaws, as amended (our bylaws ), both of which are filed as exhibits to our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). For additional information, please read our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and the applicable provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law, as amended (the IBCL ). without par value. We have no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding. cumulative voting rights in the election of directors or any other matter. of that share to an equal and ratable right to receive dividends or other distributions (other than purchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares by us) if declared from time to time by our board of directors and if there are sufficient funds to legally pay a dividend. all assets remaining after payments to creditors and after satisfaction of the liquidation preference, if any, of the holders of any preferred stock that may at the time be outstanding. agent, conversion agent and dividend disbursing agent for the common stock. Authorized But Unissued Shares corporate purposes, including future public or private offerings to raise additional capital or to facilitate corporate acquisitions. One of the effects of the existence of authorized but unissued shares may be to enable our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, which issuance could render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, and thereby protect the continuity of current management and possibly deprive the shareholders of opportunities to sell their shares of common stock at prices higher than prevailing market prices. In addition, depending on the rights prescribed for any series of preferred stock that may be issued, the issuance of preferred stock could have an adverse effect on the voting power of the holders of common stock or could impose restrictions upon the payment of dividends and other distributions to the holders of common stock. Limitations on Ownership of Our Common Stock in Articles of Incorporation ownership of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation provide that no person may beneficially own shares of voting capital stock in excess of specified ownership limits, except with the prior approval of a majority of the continuing directors. The ownership limits, which may not be exceeded without the prior approval of the BCBSA, are the following: DESCRIPTION OF THE REGISTRANT S SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT The following is a summary of the general terms and provisions of our common stock. This summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and We are authorized to issue up to 900,000,000 shares of common stock, par value 0.01 per share, as well as up to 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, Each holder of our common stock is entitled to one vote per share of record on all matters to be voted upon by the shareholders. Holders do not have Subject to the preferential rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may at the time be outstanding, each share of common stock will entitle the holder In the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of common stock will be entitled to share ratably in Holders of common stock have no preemptive or redemption rights and will not be subject to further calls or assessments by us. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ANTM. Computershare Trust Company, N.A. is the registrar, transfer Indiana law does not require shareholder approval for any issuance of authorized shares. Authorized but unissued shares may be used for a variety of As required under our licenses with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA ), our articles of incorporation contain certain limitations on the for any institutional investor (as defined in our articles of incorporation), one share less than 10% of our outstanding voting securities The common stock of Anthem, Inc. ( Anthem, we, our, or us ) is the only class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. qualified by reference to our amended and restated articles of incorporation, as amended (our articles of incorporation ) and our bylaws, as amended (our bylaws ), both of which are filed as exhibits to our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). For additional information, please read our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and the applicable provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law, as amended (the IBCL ). without par value. We have no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding. cumulative voting rights in the election of directors or any other matter. of that share to an equal and ratable right to receive dividends or other distributions (other than purchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares by us) if declared from time to time by our board of directors and if there are sufficient funds to legally pay a dividend. all assets remaining after payments to creditors and after satisfaction of the liquidation preference, if any, of the holders of any preferred stock that may at the time be outstanding. agent, conversion agent and dividend disbursing agent for the common stock. Authorized But Unissued Shares corporate purposes, including future public or private offerings to raise additional capital or to facilitate corporate acquisitions. One of the effects of the existence of authorized but unissued shares may be to enable our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, which issuance could render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, and thereby protect the continuity of current management and possibly deprive the shareholders of opportunities to sell their shares of common stock at prices higher than prevailing market prices. In addition, depending on the rights prescribed for any series of preferred stock that may be issued, the issuance of preferred stock could have an adverse effect on the voting power of the holders of common stock or could impose restrictions upon the payment of dividends and other distributions to the holders of common stock. Limitations on Ownership of Our Common Stock in Articles of Incorporation ownership of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation provide that no person may beneficially own shares of voting capital stock in excess of specified ownership limits, except with the prior approval of a majority of the continuing directors. The ownership limits, which may not be exceeded without the prior approval of the BCBSA, are the following: transferee acquiring no rights in the shares exceeding such ownership limit (with certain exceptions) and the person s excess shares will be deemed transferred to an escrow agent to be held until the shares are transferred to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the ownership limit. Certain Other Provisions of Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws These provisions could have the effect of discouraging third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition or change in control of us, although these proposals, if made, might be considered desirable by a majority of our shareholders. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to cause the replacement of the current management without the concurrence of the board of directors. These provisions include: DESCRIPTION OF THE REGISTRANT S SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT The following is a summary of the general terms and provisions of our common stock. This summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and We are authorized to issue up to 900,000,000 shares of common stock, par value 0.01 per share, as well as up to 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, Each holder of our common stock is entitled to one vote per share of record on all matters to be voted upon by the shareholders. Holders do not have Subject to the preferential rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may at the time be outstanding, each share of common stock will entitle the holder In the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of common stock will be entitled to share ratably in Holders of common stock have no preemptive or redemption rights and will not be subject to further calls or assessments by us. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ANTM. Computershare Trust Company, N.A. is the registrar, transfer Indiana law does not require shareholder approval for any issuance of authorized shares. Authorized but unissued shares may be used for a variety of As required under our licenses with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA ), our articles of incorporation contain certain limitations on the Any transfer of stock that would result in any person beneficially owning shares of capital stock in excess of any ownership limit will result in the intended Certain other provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions or changes of control of us. representing a 20% ownership interest in us. for any institutional investor (as defined in our articles of incorporation), one share less than 10% of our outstanding voting securities for any non-institutional investor (as defined in our articles of incorporation), one share less than 5% of our outstanding voting securities and for any person, one share less than the number of shares of our common stock or other equity securities (or a combination thereof) the division of the board of directors into three classes serving staggered terms of office of three years provisions limiting the maximum number of directors to 19 provisions requiring that, except in certain limited circumstances, the filling of any vacancy on the board of directors must be approved by a Exhibit 4.8 notice and proxy access procedures with regard to the nomination of candidates for election as directors, other than by or at the direction of the board of directors. Although our bylaws do not give the board of directors any power to approve or disapprove shareholder nominations for the election of directors or proposals for action, they may have the effect of precluding a contest for the election of directors or the consideration of shareholder proposals if the established procedures are not followed, and of discouraging or deterring a third party from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect its own slate of directors or to approve its proposal without regard to whether consideration of those nominees or proposals might be harmful or beneficial to us and our shareholders. action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (b) any action asserting a claim for breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or certain specified constituents of ours, (c) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the IBCL or our articles of incorporation or bylaws, or (d) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine, will be, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Marion Superior Court in Marion County, Indiana or, if the Marion Superior Court lacks jurisdiction, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Indiana. Amendment and Repeal of Bylaws entire number of directors, or (2) except for certain provisions of the bylaws, the affirmative vote, at a shareholder meeting, of at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the outstanding shares of all classes of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, considered for this purpose as a single voting group. Certain Provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law make more difficult certain unsolicited acquisitions or changes of control of us. These provisions also may have the effect of preventing changes in our management. It is possible that these provisions could make it more difficult to accomplish transactions which shareholders may otherwise deem to be in their best interest. direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares in an issuing public corporation may not exercise voting rights on any control shares unless these voting rights are conferred by a majority vote of the disinterested shareholders of the issuing public corporation at a special meeting of those shareholders held upon the request and at the expense of the acquiring person. If the acquiring person has acquired control shares with a majority of the voting power and the control shares are accorded full voting rights by the disinterested shareholders, the disinterested shareholders of the issuing public corporation have dissenters rights to receive the fair value of their shares pursuant to Chapter 44 of the IBCL. We are an issuing public corporation as defined under Chapter 42. person or in respect to which that person may exercise or direct the exercise of voting power, would otherwise entitle that person to exercise voting power of the issuing public corporation in the election of directors within any of the following ranges: (i) one-fifth or more but less than one-third (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority or (iii) a majority or more. the corporation s board of directors, provide that they do not apply. Our bylaws provide that we are not subject to Chapter 42 however, our board of directors could amend our bylaws to rescind our election to opt out of Chapter 42. combinations with an interested shareholder for five years after the date the shareholder became an interested shareholder (such date, the share acquisition date ), unless the combination or the purchase of shares by the interested shareholder on the interested shareholder s share acquisition date is approved by the board of directors of the corporation before the share acquisition date. If such prior approval is not obtained, the interested shareholder may effect a combination after the five-year period only if that shareholder receives approval from a majority of the disinterested shareholders or the offer meets specified fair price criteria. directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation or (2) an affiliate or associate of the corporation, which at any time within the five-year period immediately before the date in question, was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of the corporation. of the disinterested shareholders. That amendment, however, cannot become effective until 18 months after its passage and would apply only to share acquisitions occurring after its effective date. Our articles of incorporation do not exclude us from Chapter 43. Section 12 of the Exchange Act must have a classified board of directors unless the corporation adopts a bylaw expressly electing not to be governed by this provision. Although our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide for a classified board of directors so long as we are required to do so under our licenses with the BCBSA, we adopted an amendment to our bylaws electing not to be subject to this mandatory requirement effective July 29, 2009. permitted to be taken by the holders of common stock may be effected only at an annual meeting or special meeting of such holders, and shareholders may act in lieu of such meetings only by unanimous written consent. Our bylaws establish an advance notice procedure with regard to business to be brought before an annual or special meeting of shareholders and advance In addition, our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for (a) any derivative Our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide that the bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed by either (1) the affirmative vote of a majority of the As an Indiana corporation, we are governed by the IBCL. The following are some of the more significant provisions of the IBCL that may delay, prevent or Control Share Acquisitions. Under Chapter 42 of the IBCL, an acquiring person or group who acquires, directly or indirectly, ownership of, or the power to Under Chapter 42, control shares means shares acquired by a person that, when added to all other shares of the issuing public corporation owned by that Chapter 42 does not apply if, before a control share acquisition is made, the corporation s articles of incorporation or bylaws, including a bylaw adopted by Certain Business Combinations. Chapter 43 of the IBCL restricts the ability of an Indiana corporation that has 100 or more shareholders to engage in any For purposes of Chapter 43, interested shareholder means any person, other than the corporation or its subsidiaries, who is (1) the beneficial owner, Chapter 43 does not apply to corporations that elect not to be subject to Chapter 43 in an amendment to their articles of incorporation approved by a majority Mandatory Classified Board of Directors. Under Chapter 33 of the IBCL, a corporation with a class of voting shares registered with the SEC under Unanimous Written Consent of Shareholders. Under Chapter 29 of the IBCL, as well as our articles of incorporation and our bylaws, any action required or requirements for advance notice for raising business or making nominations at shareholders meetings. majority of continuing directors and transferee acquiring no rights in the shares exceeding such ownership limit (with certain exceptions) and the person s excess shares will be deemed transferred to an escrow agent to be held until the shares are transferred to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the ownership limit. Certain Other Provisions of Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws These provisions could have the effect of discouraging third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition or change in control of us, although these proposals, if made, might be considered desirable by a majority of our shareholders. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to cause the replacement of the current management without the concurrence of the board of directors. These provisions include: notice and proxy access procedures with regard to the nomination of candidates for election as directors, other than by or at the direction of the board of directors. Although our bylaws do not give the board of directors any power to approve or disapprove shareholder nominations for the election of directors or proposals for action, they may have the effect of precluding a contest for the election of directors or the consideration of shareholder proposals if the established procedures are not followed, and of discouraging or deterring a third party from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect its own slate of directors or to approve its proposal without regard to whether consideration of those nominees or proposals might be harmful or beneficial to us and our shareholders. action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (b) any action asserting a claim for breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or certain specified constituents of ours, (c) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the IBCL or our articles of incorporation or bylaws, or (d) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine, will be, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Marion Superior Court in Marion County, Indiana or, if the Marion Superior Court lacks jurisdiction, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Indiana. Amendment and Repeal of Bylaws entire number of directors, or (2) except for certain provisions of the bylaws, the affirmative vote, at a shareholder meeting, of at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the outstanding shares of all classes of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, considered for this purpose as a single voting group. Any transfer of stock that would result in any person beneficially owning shares of capital stock in excess of any ownership limit will result in the intended Certain other provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions or changes of control of us. Our bylaws establish an advance notice procedure with regard to business to be brought before an annual or special meeting of shareholders and advance In addition, our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for (a) any derivative Our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide that the bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed by either (1) the affirmative vote of a majority of the requirements for advance notice for raising business or making nominations at shareholders meetings. representing a 20% ownership interest in us. majority of continuing directors and for any non-institutional investor (as defined in our articles of incorporation), one share less than 5% of our outstanding voting securities and for any person, one share less than the number of shares of our common stock or other equity securities (or a combination thereof) the division of the board of directors into three classes serving staggered terms of office of three years provisions limiting the maximum number of directors to 19 provisions requiring that, except in certain limited circumstances, the filling of any vacancy on the board of directors must be approved by a The common stock of Anthem, Inc. ( Anthem, we, our, or us ) is the only class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. qualified by reference to our amended and restated articles of incorporation, as amended (our articles of incorporation ) and our bylaws, as amended (our bylaws ), both of which are filed as exhibits to our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). For additional information, please read our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and the applicable provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law, as amended (the IBCL ). without par value. We have no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding. cumulative voting rights in the election of directors or any other matter. of that share to an equal and ratable right to receive dividends or other distributions (other than purchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares by us) if declared from time to time by our board of directors and if there are sufficient funds to legally pay a dividend. all assets remaining after payments to creditors and after satisfaction of the liquidation preference, if any, of the holders of any preferred stock that may at the time be outstanding. agent, conversion agent and dividend disbursing agent for the common stock. Authorized But Unissued Shares corporate purposes, including future public or private offerings to raise additional capital or to facilitate corporate acquisitions. One of the effects of the existence of authorized but unissued shares may be to enable our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, which issuance could render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, and thereby protect the continuity of current management and possibly deprive the shareholders of opportunities to sell their shares of common stock at prices higher than prevailing market prices. In addition, depending on the rights prescribed for any series of preferred stock that may be issued, the issuance of preferred stock could have an adverse effect on the voting power of the holders of common stock or could impose restrictions upon the payment of dividends and other distributions to the holders of common stock. Limitations on Ownership of Our Common Stock in Articles of Incorporation ownership of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation provide that no person may beneficially own shares of voting capital stock in excess of specified ownership limits, except with the prior approval of a majority of the continuing directors. The ownership limits, which may not be exceeded without the prior approval of the BCBSA, are the following: transferee acquiring no rights in the shares exceeding such ownership limit (with certain exceptions) and the person s excess shares will be deemed transferred to an escrow agent to be held until the shares are transferred to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the ownership limit. Certain Other Provisions of Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws These provisions could have the effect of discouraging third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition or change in control of us, although these proposals, if made, might be considered desirable by a majority of our shareholders. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to cause the replacement of the current management without the concurrence of the board of directors. These provisions include: DESCRIPTION OF THE REGISTRANT S SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT The following is a summary of the general terms and provisions of our common stock. This summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and We are authorized to issue up to 900,000,000 shares of common stock, par value 0.01 per share, as well as up to 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, Each holder of our common stock is entitled to one vote per share of record on all matters to be voted upon by the shareholders. Holders do not have Subject to the preferential rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may at the time be outstanding, each share of common stock will entitle the holder In the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of common stock will be entitled to share ratably in Holders of common stock have no preemptive or redemption rights and will not be subject to further calls or assessments by us. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ANTM. Computershare Trust Company, N.A. is the registrar, transfer Indiana law does not require shareholder approval for any issuance of authorized shares. Authorized but unissued shares may be used for a variety of As required under our licenses with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA ), our articles of incorporation contain certain limitations on the Any transfer of stock that would result in any person beneficially owning shares of capital stock in excess of any ownership limit will result in the intended Certain other provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions or changes of control of us. representing a 20% ownership interest in us. for any institutional investor (as defined in our articles of incorporation), one share less than 10% of our outstanding voting securities for any non-institutional investor (as defined in our articles of incorporation), one share less than 5% of our outstanding voting securities and for any person, one share less than the number of shares of our common stock or other equity securities (or a combination thereof) the division of the board of directors into three classes serving staggered terms of office of three years provisions limiting the maximum number of directors to 19 provisions requiring that, except in certain limited circumstances, the filling of any vacancy on the board of directors must be approved by a Exhibit 4.8 notice and proxy access procedures with regard to the nomination of candidates for election as directors, other than by or at the direction of the board of directors. Although our bylaws do not give the board of directors any power to approve or disapprove shareholder nominations for the election of directors or proposals for action, they may have the effect of precluding a contest for the election of directors or the consideration of shareholder proposals if the established procedures are not followed, and of discouraging or deterring a third party from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect its own slate of directors or to approve its proposal without regard to whether consideration of those nominees or proposals might be harmful or beneficial to us and our shareholders. action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (b) any action asserting a claim for breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or certain specified constituents of ours, (c) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the IBCL or our articles of incorporation or bylaws, or (d) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine, will be, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Marion Superior Court in Marion County, Indiana or, if the Marion Superior Court lacks jurisdiction, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Indiana. Amendment and Repeal of Bylaws entire number of directors, or (2) except for certain provisions of the bylaws, the affirmative vote, at a shareholder meeting, of at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the outstanding shares of all classes of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, considered for this purpose as a single voting group. Certain Provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law make more difficult certain unsolicited acquisitions or changes of control of us. These provisions also may have the effect of preventing changes in our management. It is possible that these provisions could make it more difficult to accomplish transactions which shareholders may otherwise deem to be in their best interest. direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares in an issuing public corporation may not exercise voting rights on any control shares unless these voting rights are conferred by a majority vote of the disinterested shareholders of the issuing public corporation at a special meeting of those shareholders held upon the request and at the expense of the acquiring person. If the acquiring person has acquired control shares with a majority of the voting power and the control shares are accorded full voting rights by the disinterested shareholders, the disinterested shareholders of the issuing public corporation have dissenters rights to receive the fair value of their shares pursuant to Chapter 44 of the IBCL. We are an issuing public corporation as defined under Chapter 42. person or in respect to which that person may exercise or direct the exercise of voting power, would otherwise entitle that person to exercise voting power of the issuing public corporation in the election of directors within any of the following ranges: (i) one-fifth or more but less than one-third (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority or (iii) a majority or more. the corporation s board of directors, provide that they do not apply. Our bylaws provide that we are not subject to Chapter 42 however, our board of directors could amend our bylaws to rescind our election to opt out of Chapter 42. combinations with an interested shareholder for five years after the date the shareholder became an interested shareholder (such date, the share acquisition date ), unless the combination or the purchase of shares by the interested shareholder on the interested shareholder s share acquisition date is approved by the board of directors of the corporation before the share acquisition date. If such prior approval is not obtained, the interested shareholder may effect a combination after the five-year period only if that shareholder receives approval from a majority of the disinterested shareholders or the offer meets specified fair price criteria. directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation or (2) an affiliate or associate of the corporation, which at any time within the five-year period immediately before the date in question, was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of the corporation. of the disinterested shareholders. That amendment, however, cannot become effective until 18 months after its passage and would apply only to share acquisitions occurring after its effective date. Our articles of incorporation do not exclude us from Chapter 43. Section 12 of the Exchange Act must have a classified board of directors unless the corporation adopts a bylaw expressly electing not to be governed by this provision. Although our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide for a classified board of directors so long as we are required to do so under our licenses with the BCBSA, we adopted an amendment to our bylaws electing not to be subject to this mandatory requirement effective July 29, 2009. permitted to be taken by the holders of common stock may be effected only at an annual meeting or special meeting of such holders, and shareholders may act in lieu of such meetings only by unanimous written consent. Our bylaws establish an advance notice procedure with regard to business to be brought before an annual or special meeting of shareholders and advance In addition, our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for (a) any derivative Our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide that the bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed by either (1) the affirmative vote of a majority of the As an Indiana corporation, we are governed by the IBCL. The following are some of the more significant provisions of the IBCL that may delay, prevent or Control Share Acquisitions. Under Chapter 42 of the IBCL, an acquiring person or group who acquires, directly or indirectly, ownership of, or the power to Under Chapter 42, control shares means shares acquired by a person that, when added to all other shares of the issuing public corporation owned by that Chapter 42 does not apply if, before a control share acquisition is made, the corporation s articles of incorporation or bylaws, including a bylaw adopted by Certain Business Combinations. Chapter 43 of the IBCL restricts the ability of an Indiana corporation that has 100 or more shareholders to engage in any For purposes of Chapter 43, interested shareholder means any person, other than the corporation or its subsidiaries, who is (1) the beneficial owner, Chapter 43 does not apply to corporations that elect not to be subject to Chapter 43 in an amendment to their articles of incorporation approved by a majority Mandatory Classified Board of Directors. Under Chapter 33 of the IBCL, a corporation with a class of voting shares registered with the SEC under Unanimous Written Consent of Shareholders. Under Chapter 29 of the IBCL, as well as our articles of incorporation and our bylaws, any action required or requirements for advance notice for raising business or making nominations at shareholders meetings. majority of continuing directors and Certain Provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law make more difficult certain unsolicited acquisitions or changes of control of us. These provisions also may have the effect of preventing changes in our management. It is possible that these provisions could make it more difficult to accomplish transactions which shareholders may otherwise deem to be in their best interest. direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares in an issuing public corporation may not exercise voting rights on any control shares unless these voting rights are conferred by a majority vote of the disinterested shareholders of the issuing public corporation at a special meeting of those shareholders held upon the request and at the expense of the acquiring person. If the acquiring person has acquired control shares with a majority of the voting power and the control shares are accorded full voting rights by the disinterested shareholders, the disinterested shareholders of the issuing public corporation have dissenters rights to receive the fair value of their shares pursuant to Chapter 44 of the IBCL. We are an issuing public corporation as defined under Chapter 42. person or in respect to which that person may exercise or direct the exercise of voting power, would otherwise entitle that person to exercise voting power of the issuing public corporation in the election of directors within any of the following ranges: (i) one-fifth or more but less than one-third (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority or (iii) a majority or more. the corporation s board of directors, provide that they do not apply. Our bylaws provide that we are not subject to Chapter 42 however, our board of directors could amend our bylaws to rescind our election to opt out of Chapter 42. combinations with an interested shareholder for five years after the date the shareholder became an interested shareholder (such date, the share acquisition date ), unless the combination or the purchase of shares by the interested shareholder on the interested shareholder s share acquisition date is approved by the board of directors of the corporation before the share acquisition date. If such prior approval is not obtained, the interested shareholder may effect a combination after the five-year period only if that shareholder receives approval from a majority of the disinterested shareholders or the offer meets specified fair price criteria. directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation or (2) an affiliate or associate of the corporation, which at any time within the five-year period immediately before the date in question, was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of the corporation. of the disinterested shareholders. That amendment, however, cannot become effective until 18 months after its passage and would apply only to share acquisitions occurring after its effective date. Our articles of incorporation do not exclude us from Chapter 43. Section 12 of the Exchange Act must have a classified board of directors unless the corporation adopts a bylaw expressly electing not to be governed by this provision. Although our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide for a classified board of directors so long as we are required to do so under our licenses with the BCBSA, we adopted an amendment to our bylaws electing not to be subject to this mandatory requirement effective July 29, 2009. As an Indiana corporation, we are governed by the IBCL. The following are some of the more significant provisions of the IBCL that may delay, prevent or Control Share Acquisitions. Under Chapter 42 of the IBCL, an acquiring person or group who acquires, directly or indirectly, ownership of, or the power to Under Chapter 42, control shares means shares acquired by a person that, when added to all other shares of the issuing public corporation owned by that Chapter 42 does not apply if, before a control share acquisition is made, the corporation s articles of incorporation or bylaws, including a bylaw adopted by Certain Business Combinations. Chapter 43 of the IBCL restricts the ability of an Indiana corporation that has 100 or more shareholders to engage in any For purposes of Chapter 43, interested shareholder means any person, other than the corporation or its subsidiaries, who is (1) the beneficial owner, Chapter 43 does not apply to corporations that elect not to be subject to Chapter 43 in an amendment to their articles of incorporation approved by a majority Mandatory Classified Board of Directors. Under Chapter 33 of the IBCL, a corporation with a class of voting shares registered with the SEC under The common stock of Anthem, Inc. ( Anthem, we, our, or us ) is the only class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. qualified by reference to our amended and restated articles of incorporation, as amended (our articles of incorporation ) and our bylaws, as amended (our bylaws ), both of which are filed as exhibits to our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). For additional information, please read our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and the applicable provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law, as amended (the IBCL ). without par value. We have no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding. cumulative voting rights in the election of directors or any other matter. of that share to an equal and ratable right to receive dividends or other distributions (other than purchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares by us) if declared from time to time by our board of directors and if there are sufficient funds to legally pay a dividend. all assets remaining after payments to creditors and after satisfaction of the liquidation preference, if any, of the holders of any preferred stock that may at the time be outstanding. agent, conversion agent and dividend disbursing agent for the common stock. Authorized But Unissued Shares corporate purposes, including future public or private offerings to raise additional capital or to facilitate corporate acquisitions. One of the effects of the existence of authorized but unissued shares may be to enable our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, which issuance could render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, and thereby protect the continuity of current management and possibly deprive the shareholders of opportunities to sell their shares of common stock at prices higher than prevailing market prices. In addition, depending on the rights prescribed for any series of preferred stock that may be issued, the issuance of preferred stock could have an adverse effect on the voting power of the holders of common stock or could impose restrictions upon the payment of dividends and other distributions to the holders of common stock. Limitations on Ownership of Our Common Stock in Articles of Incorporation ownership of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation provide that no person may beneficially own shares of voting capital stock in excess of specified ownership limits, except with the prior approval of a majority of the continuing directors. The ownership limits, which may not be exceeded without the prior approval of the BCBSA, are the following: transferee acquiring no rights in the shares exceeding such ownership limit (with certain exceptions) and the person s excess shares will be deemed transferred to an escrow agent to be held until the shares are transferred to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the ownership limit. Certain Other Provisions of Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws These provisions could have the effect of discouraging third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition or change in control of us, although these proposals, if made, might be considered desirable by a majority of our shareholders. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to cause the replacement of the current management without the concurrence of the board of directors. These provisions include: DESCRIPTION OF THE REGISTRANT S SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT The following is a summary of the general terms and provisions of our common stock. This summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and We are authorized to issue up to 900,000,000 shares of common stock, par value 0.01 per share, as well as up to 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, Each holder of our common stock is entitled to one vote per share of record on all matters to be voted upon by the shareholders. Holders do not have Subject to the preferential rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may at the time be outstanding, each share of common stock will entitle the holder In the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of common stock will be entitled to share ratably in Holders of common stock have no preemptive or redemption rights and will not be subject to further calls or assessments by us. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ANTM. Computershare Trust Company, N.A. is the registrar, transfer Indiana law does not require shareholder approval for any issuance of authorized shares. Authorized but unissued shares may be used for a variety of As required under our licenses with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA ), our articles of incorporation contain certain limitations on the Any transfer of stock that would result in any person beneficially owning shares of capital stock in excess of any ownership limit will result in the intended Certain other provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions or changes of control of us. representing a 20% ownership interest in us. for any institutional investor (as defined in our articles of incorporation), one share less than 10% of our outstanding voting securities for any non-institutional investor (as defined in our articles of incorporation), one share less than 5% of our outstanding voting securities and for any person, one share less than the number of shares of our common stock or other equity securities (or a combination thereof) the division of the board of directors into three classes serving staggered terms of office of three years provisions limiting the maximum number of directors to 19 provisions requiring that, except in certain limited circumstances, the filling of any vacancy on the board of directors must be approved by a Exhibit 4.8 notice and proxy access procedures with regard to the nomination of candidates for election as directors, other than by or at the direction of the board of directors. Although our bylaws do not give the board of directors any power to approve or disapprove shareholder nominations for the election of directors or proposals for action, they may have the effect of precluding a contest for the election of directors or the consideration of shareholder proposals if the established procedures are not followed, and of discouraging or deterring a third party from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect its own slate of directors or to approve its proposal without regard to whether consideration of those nominees or proposals might be harmful or beneficial to us and our shareholders. action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (b) any action asserting a claim for breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or certain specified constituents of ours, (c) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the IBCL or our articles of incorporation or bylaws, or (d) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine, will be, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Marion Superior Court in Marion County, Indiana or, if the Marion Superior Court lacks jurisdiction, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Indiana. Amendment and Repeal of Bylaws entire number of directors, or (2) except for certain provisions of the bylaws, the affirmative vote, at a shareholder meeting, of at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the outstanding shares of all classes of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, considered for this purpose as a single voting group. Certain Provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law make more difficult certain unsolicited acquisitions or changes of control of us. These provisions also may have the effect of preventing changes in our management. It is possible that these provisions could make it more difficult to accomplish transactions which shareholders may otherwise deem to be in their best interest. direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares in an issuing public corporation may not exercise voting rights on any control shares unless these voting rights are conferred by a majority vote of the disinterested shareholders of the issuing public corporation at a special meeting of those shareholders held upon the request and at the expense of the acquiring person. If the acquiring person has acquired control shares with a majority of the voting power and the control shares are accorded full voting rights by the disinterested shareholders, the disinterested shareholders of the issuing public corporation have dissenters rights to receive the fair value of their shares pursuant to Chapter 44 of the IBCL. We are an issuing public corporation as defined under Chapter 42. person or in respect to which that person may exercise or direct the exercise of voting power, would otherwise entitle that person to exercise voting power of the issuing public corporation in the election of directors within any of the following ranges: (i) one-fifth or more but less than one-third (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority or (iii) a majority or more. the corporation s board of directors, provide that they do not apply. Our bylaws provide that we are not subject to Chapter 42 however, our board of directors could amend our bylaws to rescind our election to opt out of Chapter 42. combinations with an interested shareholder for five years after the date the shareholder became an interested shareholder (such date, the share acquisition date ), unless the combination or the purchase of shares by the interested shareholder on the interested shareholder s share acquisition date is approved by the board of directors of the corporation before the share acquisition date. If such prior approval is not obtained, the interested shareholder may effect a combination after the five-year period only if that shareholder receives approval from a majority of the disinterested shareholders or the offer meets specified fair price criteria. directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation or (2) an affiliate or associate of the corporation, which at any time within the five-year period immediately before the date in question, was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of the corporation. of the disinterested shareholders. That amendment, however, cannot become effective until 18 months after its passage and would apply only to share acquisitions occurring after its effective date. Our articles of incorporation do not exclude us from Chapter 43. Section 12 of the Exchange Act must have a classified board of directors unless the corporation adopts a bylaw expressly electing not to be governed by this provision. Although our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide for a classified board of directors so long as we are required to do so under our licenses with the BCBSA, we adopted an amendment to our bylaws electing not to be subject to this mandatory requirement effective July 29, 2009. permitted to be taken by the holders of common stock may be effected only at an annual meeting or special meeting of such holders, and shareholders may act in lieu of such meetings only by unanimous written consent. Our bylaws establish an advance notice procedure with regard to business to be brought before an annual or special meeting of shareholders and advance In addition, our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for (a) any derivative Our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide that the bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed by either (1) the affirmative vote of a majority of the As an Indiana corporation, we are governed by the IBCL. The following are some of the more significant provisions of the IBCL that may delay, prevent or Control Share Acquisitions. Under Chapter 42 of the IBCL, an acquiring person or group who acquires, directly or indirectly, ownership of, or the power to Under Chapter 42, control shares means shares acquired by a person that, when added to all other shares of the issuing public corporation owned by that Chapter 42 does not apply if, before a control share acquisition is made, the corporation s articles of incorporation or bylaws, including a bylaw adopted by Certain Business Combinations. Chapter 43 of the IBCL restricts the ability of an Indiana corporation that has 100 or more shareholders to engage in any For purposes of Chapter 43, interested shareholder means any person, other than the corporation or its subsidiaries, who is (1) the beneficial owner, Chapter 43 does not apply to corporations that elect not to be subject to Chapter 43 in an amendment to their articles of incorporation approved by a majority Mandatory Classified Board of Directors. Under Chapter 33 of the IBCL, a corporation with a class of voting shares registered with the SEC under Unanimous Written Consent of Shareholders. Under Chapter 29 of the IBCL, as well as our articles of incorporation and our bylaws, any action required or requirements for advance notice for raising business or making nominations at shareholders meetings. majority of continuing directors and permitted to be taken by the holders of common stock may be effected only at an annual meeting or special meeting of such holders, and shareholders may act in lieu of such meetings only by unanimous written consent. Unanimous Written Consent of Shareholders. Under Chapter 29 of the IBCL, as well as our articles of incorporation and our bylaws, any action required or Summary of the Anthem, Inc. Directed Executive Compensation (DEC) Program (effective January 1, 2019) The Directed Executive Compensation (DEC) program is an executive perquisite plan that provides officers of Anthem, Inc. (the Company ) with flexibility to tailor certain benefits to meet their needs with Credits. Credits can be used to reimburse the following expenses: The amount of Credits the executive receives is based upon his or her position. Those newly hired or promoted into an executive position will participate in the program at the beginning of the month following date of hire or promotion and will receive prorated credits for the year based on the number of full months in the position. Investment Advisor Fees Investment Management Fees Financial Counseling Fees Retirement Planning and Advice Tax Preparation and Advice Fees Estate Planning Fees Legal Fees associated with: Tax and Investment Software Tax, Investment and Financial Subscriptions Corporate Title Credits Chief Executive Officer 54,000 per year Executive Vice President 30,000 per year Senior Vice President 12,000 per year Vice President 12,000 per year Anthem compensation and or benefits program review Tax Preparation issues Estate Planning issues Financial Counseling issues Exhibit 10.6 known as (the "Plan"). CROSS and BLUE CROSS Design service marks (collectively the "Licensed Marks") for health care plans in its service area, which was essentially local in nature quality controls among Plans, facilitating the provision of cost effective health care services to the public and otherwise benefiting the public the BCA License Agreement (s) and the Ownership Agreement and Ownership Agreement to reflect their current practices and to assure the continued integrity of the Licensed Marks and of the BLUE CROSS system other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows: This agreement by and between Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ("BCBSA") and The Blue Cross Plan, WHEREAS, the Plan and or its predecessor(s) in interest (collectively the "Plan") had the right to use the BLUE WHEREAS, the Plan was desirous of assuring nationwide protection of the Licensed Marks, maintaining uniform WHEREAS, to better attain such ends, the Plan and the predecessor of BCBSA in 1972 simultaneously executed WHEREAS, BCBSA and the Plan desire to supercede said Agreement(s) and to revise certain provisions of the NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements hereinafter set forth and for (Includes revisions, if any, adopted by Member Plans through their November 21, 2019 meeting) BLUE CROSS LICENSE AGREEMENT Exhibit 10.11 the right to use BLUE CROSS in its trade and or corporate name (the "Licensed Name"), and the right to use the Licensed Marks, in the sale, marketing and administration of health care plans and related services in the Service Area set forth and defined in paragraph 5 below. As used herein, health care plans and related services shall include acting as a nonprofit health care plan, a for-profit health care plan, or mutual health insurer operating on a not-for-profit or for-profit basis, under state law financing access to health care services when working with a bank that holds the relevant license to use the Licensed Name and Marks, offering: (i) tax- favored savings accounts for medical expenses and means for accessing such accounts, such as debit cards or checks, that are provided solely to support access to such tax- favored savings accounts, all pursuant to such license, or (ii) prepaid rewards cards that are provided for completion of a wellness program, all pursuant to such license providing health care management and administration administering, but not underwriting, non- health portions of Workers Compensation Insurance delivering health care services, except hospital services (as defined in the Guidelines to Membership Standards Applicable to Regular Members) and performing the Eligibility and Enrollment functions of HR administration for all benefit plans offered by a group account to its members, including benefit plans not provided by the Plan, provided that the Plan has contracted to provide Health Coverage under the Licensed Marks to the account (as the terms Health Coverage, Eligibility and Enrollment are defined in Exhibit 4, Paragraph 2.t.). Area through Controlled Affiliates, provided that each such Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name under the terms and conditions contained in the Agreement attached as Exhibit 1 hereto (the "Controlled Affiliate License Agreement") and ii) insurance coverages offered by life insurers under the applicable law in the Service Area, other than those which the Plan may offer in its own name, provided through Controlled Affiliates, provided that each such Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name under the terms and conditions contained in the Agreement attached as Exhibit 1A hereto (the "Controlled Affiliate License Agreement Applicable to Life Insurance Companies") or the Agreement attached as Exhibit 1A1 hereto (the Controlled Affiliate Trademark License Agreement for Life and Disability Insurance Products ) and further provided that the offering of such services does not and will not dilute or tarnish the unique value of the Licensed Marks and Name and iii) administration and underwriting of Workers Compensation Insurance Controlled Affiliates, provided that each such Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name under the terms and conditions contained in the Agreement attached as Exhibit 1 hereto (the Controlled Affiliate License ) and iv) regional Medicare Advantage PPO products in cooperation with one or more other Plans through jointly-held Controlled Affiliates, provided that each such Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name under the terms and conditions contained in the Agreement attached as Exhibit 1B hereto (the Controlled Affiliate License Agreement Applicable to Regional Medicare Advantage PPO Products ) and v) regional Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan products in cooperation with one or more other Plans through jointly-held Controlled Affiliates, provided that each such Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name under the terms and conditions contained in the Agreement attached as Exhibit 1C hereto (the Controlled Affiliate License Agreement Applicable to Regional Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan Products ). As used herein, a Controlled Affiliate is defined as an entity organized and operated in such a manner that it is subject to the bona fide control of a Plan or Plans and, if the entity meets the standards of Paragraph 2a.B but not Paragraph2a.A, the entity, its owners, and persons Amended as of September 19, 2014 approval by BCBSA of an alternative method of control, bona fide control shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraphs 2a. and 2b. Sponsoring Plan ) authorized to use the Licensed Marks in the Service Area of the Controlled Affiliate pursuant to this Primary License Agreement with BCBSA must have: body having more than 50% voting control thereof (b) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate (c) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with which the Sponsoring Plan does not concur. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries shall own more than 50% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate, provided that in instances where the Sponsoring Plan formed a publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee and such publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee owns and controls other Controlled Affiliate Licensees, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly shall own and control more than 50% of any Controlled Affiliate that is indirectly owned and controlled by the publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee or having not less than 50% voting control thereof (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with which the Sponsoring Plan does not concur (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate at least equal to that exercised by persons or entities (jointly or individually) other than the Sponsoring Plan. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in (a) through (c) hereof, the Controlled Affiliate s establishing or governing documents must also require written approval by the Sponsoring Plan before the Controlled Affiliate can: 1. BCBSA hereby grants to the Plan, upon the terms and conditions of this License Agreement ( Agreement or Primary License Agreement ), 2. The Plan may use the Licensed Marks and Name in connection with the offering of: i) health care plans and related services in the Service with authority to select or appoint members or board members, other than a Plan or Plans, have received written approval of BCBSA. Absent written 2a. With respect to the Controlled Affiliate Licenses authorized in clauses i) through iii) of Paragraph 2, bona fide control shall mean that a Plan (the A. The legal authority, directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate's governing B. The legal authority directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate's governing body Exhibit 10.11 persons or entities with the authority to select or appoint members or board members of the Controlled provided that in instances where the Sponsoring Plan formed a publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee and such publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee owns and controls other Controlled Affiliate Licensees, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly shall own and control at least 50% of any Controlled Affiliate that is indirectly owned and controlled by the publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee or Medicare Advantage PPO, Medicare Advantage HMO and or Special Need Plans products and services, the legal authority by the Sponsoring Plan together with such other Plans (a) to select all members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate, with the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans each having an ownership interest. Such 100% control and ownership by Plans shall be direct or, if indirect, solely through affiliates that are licensed to use marks owned by BCBSA. Further, the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans shall execute the Addendum to Controlled Affiliate License attached as Exhibit B-1 to Exhibit 1 attached hereto or 1. Change its legal and or trade name 2. Change the geographic area in which it operates 3. Change any of the types of businesses in which it engages 4. Create, or become liable for by way of guarantee, any indebtedness, other than indebtedness arising in the ordinary course of business 5. Sell any assets, except for sales in the ordinary course of business or sales of equipment no longer useful or being replaced 6. Make any loans or advances except in the ordinary course of business 7. Enter into any arrangement or agreement with any party directly or indirectly affiliated with any of the owners of the Controlled Affiliate or Affiliate, other than the Sponsoring Plan or other Plans (excluding owners of stock holdings of under 5% in a publicly traded Controlled Affiliate) 8. Conduct any business other than under the Licensed Marks and Name 9. Take any action that the Sponsoring Plan or BCBSA reasonably believes will adversely affect the Licensed Marks or Names. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly through wholly owned subsidiaries shall own at least 50% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate, C. With respect to a Controlled Affiliate that is 100% controlled by Plans including the Sponsoring Plan and which offers solely Medicaid,  Amended as of March 26, 2015 Medicare Part D Prescription Drug product, the legal authority by the Sponsoring Plan: (a) to select all members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. Such 100% control and ownership by the Plan shall be direct or, if indirect, solely through affiliates that are licensed to use marks owned by BCBSA. Further, the Sponsoring Plan and Participating Plan as defined on the Controlled Affiliate License Agreement shall execute the Addendum to Controlled Affiliate License attached as Exhibit B-2 to Exhibit 1 attached hereto. and operations of the Controlled Affiliate as defined in Exhibit 1, Standard 1(E) and the Guidelines to Administer Standard 1(E). In addition, if the clinic is for- profit, the Sponsoring Plan shall own at least 50% of the Controlled Affiliate and prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with which the Sponsoring Plan does not concur. Controlled Affiliate is organized and operated in such a manner that it meets the following requirements: Agreement with BCBSA (for purposes of this subparagraph A. through subparagraph C., the Controlling Plans ) and is defined in such Controlled Affiliate License Agreements) and every geographic area in the Region is so licensed to at least one of the Controlling Plans and Controlled Affiliate s governing body having not less than 100% voting control thereof (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with which the Controlling Plans do not concur and (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in (a) through (c) of this subparagraph E., the Controlled Affiliate s establishing or governing documents must also require written approval by each of the Controlling Plans before the Controlled Affiliate can: D. With respect to a Controlled Affiliate that is 100% controlled by a Sponsoring Plan which on a Blue-branded basis offers solely a Basic E. With respect to a Controlled Affiliate that operates as a clinic, the legal authority by the Sponsoring Plan to exercise control over the policy 2b. With respect to the Controlled Affiliate License Agreements authorized in clauses iv) and v) of Paragraph 2, bona fide control shall mean that the A. The Controlled Affiliate is owned or controlled by two or more Plans authorized to use the Licensed Marks pursuant to this License B. Each Controlling Plan is authorized pursuant to this Agreement to use the Licensed Marks in a geographic area in the Region (as that term C. The Controlling Plans must have the legal authority directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries (a) to select members of the 1. Change its legal and or trade names Amended as of June 20, 2019 Amended as of June 20, 2019  Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) Controlled Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) the Licensed Marks or Name, indicate its corporate relationship to the Affiliate and permit such Affiliate to indicate its corporate relationship to the Plan, solely in the circumstances, style and manner specified by BCBSA from time-to-time in regulations of general application consistent with the avoidance of confusion or mistake or the dilution or tarnishment of the Licensed Marks and Name. No rights are hereby created in any Controlled Affiliate to use the Licensed Marks or Name in its own name or otherwise. strengthening the Licensed Marks and Name. The Plan further recognizes that its actions within its Service Area may affect the value of the Licensed Marks and Name nationwide. The Plan agrees (a) to maintain in good standing its membership in BCBSA (b) promptly to pay its dues to BCBSA, said dues to represent the royalties for this License Agreement (c) materially to comply with all applicable laws (d) to comply with the Membership Standards Applicable to Regular Members of BCBSA, a current copy of which is attached as Exhibit 2 hereto and (e) reasonably to permit BCBSA, upon a written, good faith request and during reasonable business hours, to inspect the Plan's books and records necessary to ascertain compliance herewith. As to other Plans and third parties, BCBSA shall maintain the confidentiality of all documents and information furnished by the Plan pursuant hereto, or pursuant to the Membership Standards, and clearly designated by the Plan as containing proprietary information of the Plan. the Plan has been granted a subsequent license, which is hereby defined as the "Service Area," except that BCBSA reserves the right to use the Licensed Marks in said Service Area, and except to the extent that said Service Area may overlap areas served by one or more other licensed Blue Cross Plans as of said date or subsequent license, as to which overlapping areas the rights hereby granted are nonexclusive as to such other Plan or Plans only. 2. Change the geographic area in which it operates (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the Controlled 3. Change any of the type(s) of businesses in which it engages (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the 4. Take any action that any Controlling Plan or BCBSA reasonably believes will adversely affect the Licensed Marks and Name. In addition, the Controlling Plans directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. 3. With respect to a Controlled Affiliate that is not licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name, the Plan may, in communications that contain 4. The Plan recognizes the importance of a comprehensive national network of independent BCBSA licensees which are committed to 5. The rights hereby granted are exclusive to the Plan within the geographical area(s) served by the Plan on June 30, 1972, and or as to which (The next page is page 3) Amended as of June 19, 2014  collateral uses, the current rules and regulations governing which are attached as Exhibit 3 and Exhibit 4 hereto, and are contained in other documents referenced herein, or as expressly provided herein, the Plan may not use the Licensed Marks and Name outside the Service Area or in connection with other goods and services, nor may the Plan use the Licensed Marks or Name in a manner which is intended to transfer in the Service Area the goodwill associated therewith to another mark or name. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the Plan from engaging in lawful activity anywhere under other marks and names not confusingly similar to the Licensed Marks and Name, provided that engaging in such activity does and will not dilute or tarnish the unique value of the Licensed Marks and Name. In addition to any and all remedies available hereunder, BCBSA may impose monetary fines on the Plan for the Plan s use of the Licensed Marks and Names outside the Service Area, and provided that the procedure used in imposing a fine is consistent with procedures specifically prescribed by BCBSA from time to time in regulations of general application. In the case of regional Medicare Advantage PPO and regional Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan products offered by consenting and participating Plans in a region that includes the Service Areas, or portions thereof, of more than one Plan, such fine may be imposed jointly on the consenting and participating Plans for use of the Licensed Marks and Name in any geographic area of the region in which a Plan having exclusive rights to the Licensed Marks and Name does not consent to and participate in such offering, provided that the basis for imposition of such fine is consistent with rules specifically prescribed by BCBSA from time to time in regulations of general application. BCBSA from goodwill pertaining thereto. The Plan shall cause to appear on all materials on or in connection with which the Licensed Marks or Name are used such legends, markings and notices as BCBSA may reasonably request in order to give appropriate notice of service mark or other proprietary rights therein or pertaining thereto. Marks or Name which is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Plan hereunder and (b) it will not itself use the Licensed Marks in derogation of the rights of the Plan or in a manner to deprive the Plan of the full benefits of this License Agreement, provided that BCBSA shall have the right to use the Licensed Marks in conjunction with any national offering under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program in the manner set forth in Exhibit 4, Paragraph 4 (including subparagraphs) to this License Agreement. The Plan agrees that it will not attack the title of BCBSA in and to the Licensed Marks or Name or attack the validity of the Licensed Marks or of this License Agreement. The Plan further agrees that all use by it of the Licensed Marks and Name or any similar mark or name shall inure to the benefit of BCBSA, and the Plan shall cooperate with BCBSA in effectuating the assignment to BCBSA of any service mark or trademark registrations of the Licensed Marks or anysimilar mark or name held by the Plan or a Controlled Affiliate of the Plan, all or any portion of which registration consists of the Licensed Marks. 6. Except as expressly provided by BCBSA with respect to National Accounts, Government Programs and certain other necessary and 7. The Plan agrees that it will display the Licensed Marks and Name only in such form, style and manner as shall be specifically prescribed by time-to-time in regulations of general application in order to prevent impairment of the distinctiveness of the Licensed Marks and Name and the 8. BCBSA agrees that: (a) it will not grant any other license effective during the term of this License Agreement for the use of the Licensed Amended as of June 19, 2014 receiving written notice thereof (or commence curing such failure within such thirty day period and continue diligent efforts to complete the curing of such failure if such curing cannot reasonably be completed within such thirty day period), BCBSA shall have the right to issue a notice that the Plan is in a state of noncompliance. Except as to the termination of a Plan's License Agreement or the merger of two or more Plans, disputes as to noncompliance, and all other disputes between or among BCBSA, the Plan, other Plans and or Controlled Affiliates, shall be submitted promptly to mediation and mandatory dispute resolution pursuant to the rules and regulations of BCBSA, a current copy of which is attached as Exhibit 5 hereto, and shall be timely presented and resolved. The mandatory dispute resolution panel shall have authority to issue orders for specific performance and assess monetary penalties. If a state of noncompliance as aforesaid is undisputed by the Plan or is found to exist by a mandatory dispute resolution panel and is uncured as provided above, BCBSA shall have the right to seek judicial enforcement of the License Agreement. Except, however, as provided in paragraphs 9(d)(iii), 15(a)(i)-(viii), and 15(a)(x) below, no Plan's license to use the Licensed Marks and Name may be finally terminated for any reason without the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans. terminated by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans at a special meeting expressly called by BCBSA for the purpose on ten (10) days written notice to the Plan advising of the specific matters at issue and granting the Plan an opportunity to be heard and to present its response to Member Plans for: (i) failure to comply with any minimum capital or liquidity requirement under the Membership Standard on Financial Responsibility or (ii) impending financial insolvency or (iii) the pendency of any action instituted against the Plan seeking its dissolution or liquidation or its assets or seeking appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business or seeking the declaration or establishment of a trust for any of its property of business, unless this License Agreement has been earlier terminated under paragraph 15(a) or (iv) such other reason as is determined in good faith immediately and irreparably to threaten the integrity and reputation of BCBSA, the Plans and or the Licensed Marks. rules and regulations governing Government Programs and certain other uses nor (iii) the rules and regulations governing mediation and mandatory dispute resolution, may be amended unless and until each such amendment is first adopted by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and of three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans. The rules and regulations governing National Accounts and other national programs required by the Membership Standards Applicable to Regular Members of BCBSA (Exhibit 2) are contained, in addition to those set forth in Exhibit 3, in the following documents, as amended from time to time: (1) the Inter-Plan Programs Policies and Provisions (2) Inter- Plan Medicare Advantage Program Policies and Provisions. The voting requirements specified in rules and regulations governing such national programs may not be amended unless and until each such amendment is first adopted by the affirmative vote of three- fourths of the Plans and of three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans. 9. (a). Should the Plan fail to comply with the provisions of paragraphs 2-4, 6, 7 and or 12, and not cure such failure within thirty (30) days of (b). Notwithstanding any other provision of this License Agreement, a Plan's license to use the Licensed Marks and Name may be forthwith (c). To the extent not otherwise provided therein, neither: (i) the Membership Standards Applicable to Regular Members of BCBSA nor (ii) the   Amended as of March 16, 2006 Amended as of November 16, 2006 Plan in any securities market. The Plan shall use the licensed Marks and Name as part of its trade name within its service area for the sale, marketing and administration of health care and related services in the service area. an SEC filing indicating that, any Institutional Investor, has become the Beneficial Owner of securities representing 10% or more of the voting power of the Plan ( Excess Institutional Voter ), unless such Excess Institutional Voter shall cease to be an Excess Institutional Voter prior to such automatic termination becoming effective (b) thirty days after the Plan knows, or there is an SEC filing indicating that, any Noninstitutional Investor has become the Beneficial Owner of securities representing 5% or more of the voting power of the Plan ( Excess Noninstitutional Voter ) unless such Excess Noninstitutional Voter shall cease to be an Excess Noninstitutional Voter prior to such automatic termination becoming effective (c) thirty days after the Plan knows, or there is an SEC filing indicating that, any Person has become the Beneficial Owner of 20% or more of the Plan s then outstanding common stock or other equity securities which (either by themselves or in combination) represent an ownership interest of 20% or more pursuant to determinations made under paragraph 9(d)(iv) below ( Excess Owner ), unless such Excess Owner shall cease to be an Excess Owner prior to such automatic termination becoming effective (d) ten business days after individuals who at the time the Plan went public constituted the Board of Directors of the Plan (together with any new directors whose election to the Board was approved by a vote of 2 3 of the directors then still in office who were directors at the time the Plan went public or whose election or nomination was previously so approved) (the "Continuing Directors") cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors or (e) ten business days after the Plan consolidates with or merges with or into any person or conveys, assigns, transfers or sells all or substantially all of its assets to any person other than a merger in which the Plan is the surviving entity and immediately after which merger, no person is an Excess Institutional Voter, an Excess Noninstitutional Voter or an Excess Owner: provided that, if requested by the affected Plan in a writing received by BCBSA prior to such automatic termination becoming effective, the provisions of this paragraph 9(d)(iii) may be waived, in whole or in part, (d). The Plan may operate as a for-profit company on the following conditions: (i) The Plan shall discharge all responsibilities which it has to the Association and to other Plans by virtue of this Agreement and the Plan's membership in BCBSA. (ii) The Plan shall not use the licensed Marks and Name, or any derivative thereof, as part of its legal name or any symbol used to identify the (iii) Plan's license to use the Licensed Marks and Name shall automatically terminate effective: (a) thirty days after the Plan knows, or there is Amended as of November 21, 2014 waiver so granted may be conditioned upon such additional requirements (including but not limited to imposing new and independent grounds for termination of this License) as shall be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested Plans and a majority of the total then current weighted vote of the disinterested Plans. If a timely waiver request is received, no automatic termination shall become effective until the later of: (1) the conclusion of the applicable time period specified in paragraphs 9(d)(iii)(a)-(d) above, or (2) the conclusion of the first Member Plan meeting after receipt of such a waiver request. reinstated in BCBSA s sole discretion if, within 30 days of the date of such termination, the Plan demonstrates that the Person referred to in clause (a), (b) or (c) of the preceding paragraph is no longer an Excess Institutional Voter, an Excess Noninstitutional Voter or an Excess Owner. derivatives of such common stock, (ii) non-voting, non-convertible debt securities or (iii) such other securities as the Plan may approve, provided that BCBSA receives notice at least thirty days prior to the issuance of such securities, including a description of the terms for such securities, and BCBSA shall have the authority to determine how such other securities will be counted in determining whether any Person is an Excess Institutional Voter, Excess Noninstitutional Voter or an Excess Owner. under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and in effect on November 17, 1993 (the "Exchange Act"). immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise or (B) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any security if the agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security (1) arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to such Person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report) or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates) has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested Plans and a majority of the total then current weighted vote of the disinterested Plans. Any In the event that the Plan's license to use the Licensed Marks and Name is terminated pursuant to this Paragraph 9(d)(iii), the license may be (iv) The Plan shall not issue any class or series of security other than (i) shares of common stock having identical terms or options or (v) For purposes of paragraph 9(d)(iii), the following definitions shall apply: (a) "Affiliate" and "Associate" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations (b) A Person shall be deemed the "Beneficial Owner" of and shall be deemed to "beneficially own" any securities: (i) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates beneficially owns, directly or indirectly (ii) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has (A) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) with which such Person (or Amended as of September 17, 1997 Amended as of September 17, 1997 underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities) relating to the acquisition, holding, voting (except to the extent contemplated by the proviso to (b)(ii)(B) above) or disposing of any securities of the Plan. Person's Beneficial Ownership of securities of the Plan, shall mean the number of such securities then issued and outstanding together with the number of such securities not then actually issued and outstanding which such Person would be deemed to own beneficially hereunder. (1)(ii) as constituted on June 1, 1997, and (ii) every filing made by such Person with the SEC under Regulation 13D-G (or any successor Regulation) with respect to such Person s Beneficial Ownership of Plan securities shall have contained a certification identical to the one required by item 10 of SEC Schedule 13G as constituted on June 1, 1997. successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity. Agreements are terminated by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans or (c) until termination of aforesaid Ownership Agreement or its sole discretion. then current weighted vote of all the Plans, or unless this and all such other License Agreements are simultaneously terminated by force of law, the termination of this License Agreement for any reason whatsoever shall cause the reversion to BCBSA of all rights in and to the Licensed Marks and Name, and the Plan agrees that it will promptly discontinue all use of the Licensed Marks and Name, will not use them thereafter, and will promptly, upon written notice from BCBSA, change its corporate name so as to eliminate the Licensed Name therefrom. assignable by any act of the Plan, directly or indirectly, without the written consent of BCBSA. Said license shall not be assignable by operation of law, nor shall Plan mortgage or part with possession or control of this license or any right hereunder, and the Plan shall have no right to grant any sublicense to use the Licensed Marks and Name. proceedings as may be necessary or proper to prevent use of the Licensed Marks by any person who is not authorized to use the same. Any actions or proceedings undertaken by BCBSA under the provisions of this paragraph shall be at BCBSA's sole cost and expense. BCBSA shall have the sole right to determine whether or not any legal action shall be taken on account of unauthorized use of the Licensed Marks, such right not to be unreasonably exercised. The Plan shall report any unlawful usage of the Licensed Marks to BCBSA in writing and agrees, free of charge, to cooperate fully with BCBSA's program of enforcing and protecting the service mark rights, trade name rights and other rights in the Licensed Marks. damages, liabilities and costs of every kind, nature and description which may arise as a result of the activities of the Plan or of any hospital, medical group, clinic or other provider of health services that is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by Plan. BCBSA hereby agrees to save, defend, indemnify and hold the Plan and any other Plan(s) harmless from and against all claims, damages, liabilities And costs of every kind, nature and description which may arise exclusively and directly as a result of the activities of BCBSA. Notwithstanding anything in this definition of Beneficial Ownership to the contrary, the phrase "then outstanding," when used with reference to a (c) A Person shall be deemed an Institutional Investor if (but only if) such Person (i) is an entity or group identified in the SEC s Rule 13d-1(b) (d) Noninstitutional Investor means any Person who is not an Institutional Investor. (e) "Person" shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, trust, association, joint venture or other entity, and shall include any 10. This License Agreement shall remain in effect: (a) until terminated as provided herein or (b) until this and all such other License (d) until terminated by the Plan upon eighteen (18) months written notice to BCBSA or upon a shorter notice period approved by BCBSA in writing at 11. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 15 below or by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total 12. The license hereby granted to Plan to use the Licensed Marks and Name is and shall be personal to the Plan so licensed and shall not be 13. BCBSA shall maintain appropriate service mark registrations of the Licensed Marks and BCBSA shall take such lawful steps and 14. The Plan hereby agrees to save, defend, indemnify and hold BCBSA and any other Plan(s) harmless from and against all claims, Amended as of September 17, 1997 -5b- (The next page is page 6) by the Plan or by BCBSA seeking bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement with creditors or other relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or any other law governing insolvency or debtor relief, or (ii) an involuntary petition or proceeding shall be filed against the Plan or BCBSA seeking bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement with creditors or other relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or any other law governing insolvency or debtor relief and such petition or proceeding is consented to or acquiesced in by the Plan or BCBSA or is not dismissed within sixty (60) days of the date upon which the petition or other document commencing the proceeding is served upon the Plan or BCBSA respectively, or (iii) an order for relief is entered against the Plan or BCBSA in any case under the bankruptcy laws of the United States, or the Plan or BCBSA is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent (as that term is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code as enacted in the state of Illinois) by any court of competent jurisdiction, or (iv) the Plan or BCBSA makes a general assignment of its assets for the benefit of creditors, or (v) any government or any government official, office, agency, branch, or unit assumes control of the Plan or delinquency proceedings (voluntary or involuntary) are instituted, or (vi) an action is brought by the Plan or BCBSA seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking the appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business, or (vii) an action is instituted by any governmental entity or officer against the Plan or BCBSA seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business and such action is consented to or acquiesced in by the Plan or BCBSA or is not dismissed within one hundred thirty (130) days of the date upon which the pleading or other document commencing the action is served upon the Plan or BCBSA respectively, provided that if the action is stayed or its prosecution is enjoined, the one hundred thirty (130) day period is tolled for the duration of the stay or injunction, and provided further, that the Association s Board of Directors may toll or extend the 130 day period at any time prior to its expiration, or (viii) a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of the Plan's or BCBSA's property or business is appointed, or the Plan or BCBSA is ordered dissolved or liquidated, or (ix) the Plan shall fail to pay its dues and shall not cure such failure within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice thereof, or (x) if, due to regulatory action, the Plan together with any applicable Controlled Affiliate becomes unable to do business using the Names and Marks in any State or portion thereof included in its Service Area, provided that: (i) automatic termination shall not occur prior to the exhaustion by any such Plan of its rights to appeal or challenge such regulatory action and (ii) in the event the Plan is licensed to do business using the Names and Marks in multiple States or portions of States, the termination of its License Agreement shall be solely limited to the State(s) or portions thereof in which the regulatory action applies. By not appealing or challenging such regulatory action within the time prescribed by law or regulation, and in any event no later than 120 days after such action is taken, a Plan shall be deemed to have exhausted its rights to appeal or challenge, and automatic termination shall proceed. 15. (a). This Agreement shall automatically terminate upon the occurrence of any of the following events: (i) a voluntary petition shall be filed Amended as of June 21, 2012 BCBSA s property or business shall not in itself be deemed to constitute or seek appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for purposes of subparagraphs 15(a)(vii) and (viii) of this Agreement. immediately upon written notice upon the occurrence of either of the following events: (a) the Plan or BCBSA becomes insolvent (as that term is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code enacted in the state of Illinois), or (b) any final judgment against the Plan or BCBSA remains unsatisfied or unbonded of record for a period of sixty (60) days or longer. Licensed Marks shall revert to each of the Plans as provided in the Ownership Agreement. Exhibit 1 to this License Agreement, the following conditions shall apply, except that, in the event of a partial termination of this Agreement pursuant to Paragraph 15 (a)(x)(ii) of this Agreement, the notices, national account listing, payment and audit right listed below shall be applicable solely with respect to the geographic area for which the Plan s license to use the Licensed Names and Marks is terminated: providers, brokers and agents of products or services sold, marketed, underwritten or administered by the terminated entity or its Controlled Affiliates under the Licensed Marks and Name. The form and content of the notice shall be specified by BCBSA and shall, at a minimum, notify the recipient of the termination of the license, the consequences thereof, and instructions for obtaining alternate products or services licensed by BCBSA, subject to any conflicting state law and Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, a declaration or a request for declaration of the existence of a trust over any of the Plan s or (b). BCBSA, or the Plans (as provided and in addition to the rights conferred in Paragraph 10(b) above), may terminate this Agreement (c). If this License Agreement is terminated as to BCBSA for any reason stated in subparagraphs 15(a) and (b) above, the ownership of the (d). Upon termination of this License Agreement or any Controlled Affiliate License Agreement of a Larger Controlled Affiliate, as defined in (i) The terminated entity shall send a notice through the U.S. mails, with first class postage affixed, to all individual and group customers, Amended as of March 26, 2015 state regulatory requirements. This notice shall be mailed within 15 days after termination or, if termination is pursuant to paragraph 10(d) of this Agreement, within 15 days after the written notice to BCBSA described in paragraph 10(d). entity is involved (in a Control, Participating or Servicing capacity), identifying the national account and the terminated entity's role therein. For those accounts where the terminated entity is the Control Plan, the Plan must also indicate the Participating and Servicing Plans in the national account syndicate. Affiliates shall be jointly liable for payment to BCBSA of an amount equal to the Re- Establishment Fee (described below) multiplied by the number of Licensed Enrollees of the terminated entity and its Licensed Controlled Affiliates provided that if any other Plan is permitted by BCBSA to use marks or names licensed by BCBSA in the Service Area established by this Agreement, the Re-Establishment Fee shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of Licensed Enrollees of the terminated entity and its Licensed Controlled Affiliates and the denominator of which is the total number of Licensed Enrollees in the Service Area. The Re-Establishment Fee shall be indexed to a base fee of 80. The Re-Establishment Fee through December 31, 2005 shall be 80. The Re-Establishment Fee for calendar years after December 31, 2005 shall be adjusted on January 1 of each calendar year up to and including January 1, 2010 and shall be the base fee multiplied by 100% plus the cumulative percentage increase or decrease in the Plans gross administrative expense (standard BCBSA definition) per Licensed Enrollee since December 31, 2004. The adjustment shall end on January 1, 2011, at which time the Re-Establishment Fee shall be fixed at the then-current amount and no longer automatically adjusted. For example, if the Plans gross administrative expense per Licensed Enrollee was 278.60, 285.00 and 290.00 for calendar year end 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively, the January 1, 2007 Re-Establishment Fee would be 83.27 (100% of the base fee plus 1.84 for calendar year 2005 and 1.43 for calendar year 2006). Licensed Enrollee means each and every person and covered dependent who is enrolled as an individual or member of a group receiving products or services sold, marketed or administered under marks or names licensed by BCBSA as determined at the earlier of (a) the end of the last fiscal year of the terminated entity which ended prior to termination or (b) the fiscal year which ended before any transactions causing the termination began. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount payable pursuant to this subparagraph (d)(iii) shall be due only to the extent that, in BCBSA's opinion, it does not cause the net worth of the Plan to fall below 100% of the Health Risk- Based Capital formula or its equivalent under any successor formula, as set forth in the applicable financial responsibility standards established by BCBSA (provided such equivalent is approved for purposes of this sub paragraph by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and (ii) The terminated entity shall deliver to BCBSA within five days of a request by BCBSA a listing of national accounts in which the terminated (iii) Unless the cause of termination is an event stated in paragraph 15(a) or (b) above respecting BCBSA, the Plan and its Licensed Controlled Amended as of June 16, 2005 transactions not made in the ordinary course of business. This payment shall not be due in connection with transactions exclusively by or among Plan or their affiliates, including reorganizations, combinations or mergers, where the BCBSA Board of Directors determines that the license termination does not result in a material diminution in the number of Licensed Enrollees or the extent of their coverage. At least 50% of the Re Establishment Fee shall be awarded to the Plan (or Plans) that receive the new license(s) for the service area(s) at issue provided, however, that such award shall not become due or payable until all disputes, if any, regarding the amount of and BCBSA s right to such Re- Establishment Fee have been finally resolved and provided further that the award shall be based on the final amount actually received by BCBSA. The Board of Directors shall adopt a resolution which it may amend from time to time that shall govern BCBSA s use of its portion of the award. In the event that the terminated entity s license is reinstated by BCBSA or is deemed to have remained in effect without interruption by a court of competent jurisdiction, BCBSA shall reimburse the Plan (and or its Licensed Controlled Affiliates, as the case may be) for payments made under this subparagraph only to the extent that such payments exceed the amounts due to BCBSA pursuant to subparagraph 15(d)(vi) and any costs associated with reestablishing the Service Area, including any payments made by BCBSA to a Plan or Plans (or their Licensed Controlled Affiliates) for purposes of replacing the terminated entity. amended from time to time and shall work diligently and in good faith with BCBSA, any Alternative Control Licensee or Replacement Licensee and any existing or potential accounts to continue to receive or obtain Blue-branded products and services through a new Licensee ( Transition ). Such diligence and good faith on the part of the terminated entity shall include, but not be limited to: (a) working cooperatively with BCBSA to protect the Names and Marks from potential harm (b) cooperating with BCBSA s use of the Names and Marks in the terminated entity s former service area during the termination and Transition (c) transmitting, upon the request of an existing Blue account or of BCBSA with consent and on behalf of an existing Blue account, all member and account-data relating to the Federal Employee Program to BCBSA, and all member and account data relating to other programs to an Alternative Control Licensee or Replacement Licensee (d) working with BCBSA and the Alternative Control or Replacement Licensee with respect to potential new Blue accounts headquartered in the terminated entity s former service area (e) continuing to service Blue accounts during the Transition (f) continuing to comply with National Programs, Federal three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans), measured as of the date of termination and adjusted for the value of any (iv) The terminated entity shall comply with all financial settlement procedures set forth in BCBSA s License Termination Contingency Plan, as new account for Blue-branded products and services to minimize the disruption of termination, and honor, to the fullest extent possible, the desire of Amended as of June 16, 2005 Amended as of June 16, 2005 Employee Program and NASCO policies and procedures and all voluntary BCBSA programs, policies and performance standards, such as Away From Home Care, including being responsible for payment of all penalties for non-compliance duly levied in conformity with the License Agreements, Membership Standards, or the Federal Employee Program agreements, that may arise during the Transition (g) maintaining and providing access to its provider networks, as defined by Federal Employee Program agreements and National Account Program Policies and Provisions, and Inter-Plan Programs Policies and Provisions, and making those networks and discounts available to members and providers who participate in National Programs and the Federal Employee Program during the Transition (h) maintaining its technical connections and processing capabilities during the Transition additional fines against the terminated entity during the Transition in the event it fails to maintain and provide access to provider networks as defined by Federal Employee Program agreements, National Account Program Policies and Provisions, and Inter-Plan Programs Policies and Provisions, and or pass on applicable discounts. Such fines shall be in addition to any other assessments, fees or liquidated damages payable herein, or under existing policies and programs and shall be imposed to make whole BCBSA and or the Plans. Terminated entity shall pay any such fines to BCBSA no later than 30 days after they are approved by the Board of Directors. books and records of the terminated entity and its Licensed Controlled Affiliates to verify compliance with the terms and requirements this paragraph 15(d). continuing obligation to protect all BCBSA and Blue Licensee data that was acquired or accessed during the period this Agreement was in force, including but not limited to all confidential processes, pricing, provider, discount and other strategic and competitively sensitive information ( Blue Information ) from disclosure, and shall not, either alone or with another entity, disclose such Blue Information or use it in any manner to compete without the express written permission of BCBSA. competent jurisdiction. As to a breach of 15 (d) (i), (ii), (iv), (vi), or (vii) by the Plan, the parties agree there is no adequate remedy at law and BCBSA is entitled to obtain specific performance. and (i) working diligently to conclude all financial settlements and account reconciliations as negotiated in the termination transition agreement. (v) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, BCBSA shall have the right, with the approval of its Board of Directors, to assess (vi) BCBSA shall have the right to examine and audit and or hire at terminated entity s expense a third-party auditor to examine and audit the (vii) Subsequent to termination of this Agreement, the terminated entity and its affiliates, agents, and employees shall have an ongoing and (viii) As to a breach of 15 (d) (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (vi), or (vii) the parties agree that the obligations are immediately enforceable in a court of Amended as of November 16, 2006 court of competent jurisdiction, the Plan and its Licensed Controlled Affiliates shall be jointly liable for reimbursing BCBSA the reasonable costs incurred by BCBSA in connection with the termination and the reinstatement or court action, and any associated legal proceedings, including but not limited to: outside legal fees, consulting fees, public relations fees, advertising costs, and costs incurred to develop, lease or establish an interim provider network. Any amount due to BCBSA under this subparagraph may be waived in whole or in part by the BCBSA Board of Directors in its sole discretion. result in a termination of this License Agreement unless the License Agreement has been terminated pursuant to paragraph 10 (d) of this Agreement upon the required six (ix) In the event that the terminated entity s license is reinstated by BCBSA or is deemed to have remained in effect without interruption by a (e).BCBSA shall be entitled to enjoin the Plan or any related party in a court of competent jurisdiction from entry into any transaction which would (6) month written notice. (f). BCBSA acknowledges that it is not the owner of assets of the Plan. Amended as of November 16, 2006 the covenants and agreements of the parties as to the licensing of the Licensed Marks and Name. This Agreement may be amended only by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans as officially recorded by the BCBSA Corporate Secretary. any provision, shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding such judicial declaration. the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach or default in performance of said terms, covenants or conditions. published for each by BCBSA and shall be marked respectively to the attention of the President and, if any, the General Counsel, of BCBSA or the Plan. days written notice to the Plan advising of the specific matters at issue and granting the Plan an opportunity to be heard and to present its response to the Member Plans. and or the Blue Shield License Agreement, and in all votes of the Plans under this Agreement the Plans shall vote together. For weighted votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have a number of votes equal to the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Cross Plan plus the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Shield Plan. For all other votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have one vote. For all questions requiring an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote of the Plans, the requirement shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless the greater of: (i) 6 52 or more of the Plans (rounded to the nearest whole number, with 0.5 or multiples thereof being rounded to the next higher whole number) fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question or (ii) three (3) of the Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, if there are thirty- nine (39) Plans, the requirement of an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless four (4) or more Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. other, and Plan shall have no right to bind or obligate BCBSA in any way, nor shall it represent that it has any right to do so. BCBSA shall have no liability to third parties with respect to any aspect of the business, activities, operations, products, or services of the Plan. 16. This Agreement supersedes any and all other agreements between the parties with respect to the subject matter herein, and contains all of 17. If any provision or any part of any provision of this Agreement is judicially declared unlawful, each and every other provision, or any part of 18. No waiver by BCBSA or the Plan of any breach or default in performance on the part of BCBSA or the Plan or any other licensee of any of 19a. All notices provided for hereunder shall be in writing and shall be sent in duplicate by regular mail to BCBSA or the Plan at the address currently 19b. Except as provided in paragraphs 9(b), 9(d)(iii), 15(a), and 15(b) above, this Agreement may be terminated for a breach only upon at least 30 19c. For all provisions of this Agreement referring to voting, the term Plans shall mean all entities licensed under the Blue Cross License Agreement 20. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to constitute the parties hereto as partners or joint venturers, or either as the agent of the 21. This Agreement shall be governed, construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this License Agreement to be executed, effective as of the date of last signature written below. BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION Title Amended as of June 16, 2006 Amended as of June 16, 2006 (The next page is page 9) Cross Plan, known as (collectively the "Licensed Marks") as service marks and be entitled to use the term BLUE CROSS in a trade name ("Licensed Name") the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows: connection with, and only in connection with: (i) health care plans and related services, as defined in BCBSA's License Agreement with Plan, and administering the non-health portion of workers compensation insurance, and (ii) underwriting the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance, provided that Controlled Affiliate s total premium revenue comprises less than 15 percent of the Sponsoring Plan s net subscription revenue. Affiliate may use the Licensed Marks and Name in its legal name on the following conditions: (i) the legal name must be approved in advance, in writing, by BCBSA (ii) Controlled Affiliate shall not do business outside the Service Area under any name or mark and (iii) Controlled Affiliate shall not use the Licensed Marks and Name, or any derivative thereof, as part of any name or symbol used to identify itself in any securities market, unless such Controlled Affiliate is a not-for-profit company which may use the Licensed Marks and Name, or an approved derivative therefor, to identify itself in debt securities markets. Controlled Affiliate may use the Licensed Marks and Name in its Trade Name only with the prior, written, consent of BCBSA. Title This Agreement by and among Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ("BCBSA") and ( Controlled Affiliate"), a Controlled Affiliate of the Blue ("Plan" or Sponsoring Plan ), which is also a Party signatory hereto. WHEREAS, BCBSA is the owner of the BLUE CROSS and BLUE CROSS Design service marks WHEREAS, Plan and Controlled Affiliate desire that the latter be entitled to use the BLUE CROSS and BLUE CROSS Design service marks NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements hereinafter set forth and for other good and valuable consideration, 1. GRANT OF LICENSE Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, BCBSA hereby grants to Controlled Affiliate the right to use the Licensed Marks and Name in This grant of rights is non-exclusive and is limited to the Service Area served by the Plan Subject to paragraph 3A(3) of this Agreement, Controlled (Includes revisions adopted by Member Plans through their November 21, 2019 meeting) CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE AGREEMENT BLUE CROSS bound by the conditions regarding quality control shown in attached Exhibit A as they may be amended by BCBSA from time-to-time. requirements of this Agreement including but not limited to the quality control provisions of this paragraph and the attached Exhibit A. method of Controlled Affiliate's rendering of service and use of the Licensed Marks and Name. which the Sponsoring Plan does not concur and individually) other than the Sponsoring Plan and written approval by the Sponsoring Plan before the Controlled Affiliate can: the Controlled Affiliate, other than the Sponsoring Plan or other Plans (excluding owners of stock holdings of under 5% in a publicly traded Controlled Affiliate) 2. QUALITY CONTROL A. Controlled Affiliate agrees to use the Licensed Marks and Name only in connection with the licensed services and further agrees to be B. Controlled Affiliate agrees to comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws. C. Controlled Affiliate agrees that it will provide on an annual basis (or more often if reasonably required by Plan or by BCBSA) a report or reports to Plan and BCBSA demonstrating Controlled Affiliate's compliance with the D. Controlled Affiliate agrees that Plan and or BCBSA may, from time-to-time, upon reasonable notice, review and inspect the manner and E. As used herein, a Controlled Affiliate is defined as an entity organized and operated in such a manner, that the Sponsoring Plan has: (1) The legal authority directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body having not less than 50% voting control thereof and (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate at least equal to that exercised by persons or entities (jointly or Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in (a) through (c) hereof, the Controlled Affiliate s establishing or governing documents must also require (i) change its legal and or trade names (ii) change the geographic area in which it operates (iii) change any of the type(s) of businesses in which it engages (iv) create, or become liable for by way of guarantee, any indebtedness, other than indebtedness arising in the ordinary course of business (v) sell any assets, except for sales in the ordinary course of business or sales of equipment no longer useful or being replaced (vi) make any loans or advances except in the ordinary course of business (vii) enter into any arrangement or agreement with any party directly or indirectly affiliated with any of the owners or persons or entities with the authority to select or appoint members or board members of Amended as of September 19, 2014 Amended as of March 26, 2015  provided that in instances where the Sponsoring Plan formed a publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee and such publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee owns and controls other Controlled Affiliate Licensees, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly shall own and control at least 50% of any Controlled Affiliate that is indirectly owned and controlled by the publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee. which the Sponsoring Plan does not concur and provided that in instances where the Sponsoring Plan formed a publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee and such publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee owns and controls other Controlled Affiliate Licensees, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly shall own and control more than 50% of any Controlled Affiliate that is indirectly owned and controlled by the publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee. Medicare Advantage PPO, Medicare Advantage HMO and or Special Need Plans products and services, the Sponsoring Plan has the legal authority together with such other Plans: 100% of any for-profit direct or, if indirect, solely through affiliates that are licensed to use marks owned by BCBSA. Further, the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans shall execute a separate Addendum to Controlled Affiliate License Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit B-1 for each product noted in Paragraph 2E(3) that is licensed to use the Marks. Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan product, the Sponsoring Plan has the legal authority: (viii) conduct any business other than under the Licensed Marks and Name (ix) take any action that the Sponsoring Plan or BCBSA reasonably believes will adversely affect the Licensed Marks and Name. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly through wholly owned subsidiaries shall own at least 50% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate, (2) the legal authority directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body having more than 50% voting control thereof and (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries shall own more than 50% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate, (3) With respect to a Controlled Affiliate that is 100% controlled by Plans including the Sponsoring Plan and which offers solely Medicaid, (a) to select all members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body and (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate and (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans shall own Controlled Affiliate with the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans each having an ownership interest. Such control and ownership by Plans must be (4) With respect to a Controlled Affiliate that is 100% controlled by a Sponsoring Plan which on a Blue-branded basis, only offers a Basic (a) to select all members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body and (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate and (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. Amended as of March 26, 2015 direct or, if indirect, solely through affiliates that are licensed to use marks owned by BCBSA. Further, the Participating Plan as defined in Exhibit B-2 and the Sponsoring Plan shall execute the Addendum to Controlled Affiliate License Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit B-2. Sponsoring Plan shall have bona fide operational control over the Controlled Affiliate as specified in Exhibit A, Standard 1(E) and the Guidelines to Administer Standard 1(E). In addition, if the clinic is for-profit, the Sponsoring Plan shall own at least 50% of the Controlled Affiliate and prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with which the Sponsoring Plan does not concur. to identify the Controlled Affiliate in any securities market. The Controlled Affiliate shall use the Licensed Marks and Name as part of its trade name within its service area for the sale, marketing and administration of health care and related services in the service area. Controlled Affiliate knows, or there is an SEC filing indicating that, any Institutional Investor, has become the Beneficial Owner of securities representing 10% or more of the voting power of the Controlled Affiliate ( Excess Institutional Voter ), unless such Excess Institutional Voter shall cease to be an Excess Institutional Voter prior to such automatic termination becoming effective (b) thirty days after the Controlled Affiliate knows, or there is an SEC filing indicating that, any Noninstitutional Investor, other than a Plan or Plans or Controlled Affiliate Licensee or Licensees has become the Beneficial Owner of securities representing 5% or more of the voting power of the Controlled Affiliate ( Excess Noninstitutional Voter ) unless such Excess Noninstitutional Voter shall cease to be an Excess Noninstitutional Voter prior to such automatic termination becoming effective (c) thirty days after the Controlled Affiliate knows, or there is an SEC filing indicating that, any Person has become the Beneficial Owner, other than a In addition, the Sponsoring Plan shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. Such 100% control and ownership by Sponsoring Plan must be (5) With respect to a Controlled Affiliate that operates as a clinic, absent an alternative method of control approved in writing by BCBSA, the 3. FOR-PROFIT, PUBLICLY TRADED LICENSEES A. The Controlled Affiliate may operate as a for-profit publicly traded company on the following conditions: (1) The Controlled Affiliate shall discharge all responsibilities which it has to the Association and to other Plans by virtue of this Agreement. (2) The Controlled Affiliate shall provide 90 days advance written notice to BCBSA prior to the initial filing with the SEC. (3) The Controlled Affiliate shall not use the Licensed Marks and Name, or any derivative thereof, as part of its legal name or any symbol used (4) The Controlled Affiliate s license to use the Licensed Marks and Name shall automatically terminate effective: (a) thirty days after the Amended as of June 20, 2019 Amended June 20, 2019 securities which (either by themselves or in combination) represent an ownership interest of 20% or more pursuant to determinations made under paragraph 3A(4) below ( Excess Owner ), unless such Excess Owner shall cease to be an Excess Owner prior to such automatic termination becoming effective (d) ten business days after individuals who at the time the Controlled Affiliate went public constituted the Board of Directors of the Controlled Affiliate (together with any new directors whose election to the Board was approved by a vote of 2 3 of the directors then still in office who were directors at the time the Controlled Affiliate went public or whose election or nomination was previously so approved) (the Continuing Directors ) cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors or (e) ten business days after the Controlled Affiliate consolidates with or merges with or into any person or conveys, assigns, transfers or sells all or substantially all of its assets to any person other than a merger in which the Sponsoring Plan is the surviving entity and immediately after which merger, no person is an Excess Institutional Voter, an Excess Noninstitutional Voter or an Excess Owner: provided that, if requested by the affected Controlled Affiliate in a writing received by BCBSA prior to such automatic termination becoming effective, the provisions of this paragraph 3A(4) may be waived, in whole or in part, upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested Plans and majority of the total then current weighted vote of the disinterested Plans. Any waiver so granted may be conditioned upon such additional requirements (including but not limited to imposing new and independent grounds for termination of this License) as shall be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested Plans and a majority of the total then current weighted vote of the disinterested Plans. If a timely waiver request is received, no automatic termination shall become effective until the later of: (1) the conclusion of the applicable time period specified in paragraphs 3A(4) (a)-(d) above, or (2) the conclusion of the first Member Plan meeting after receipt of such a waiver request. 3A(4), the license may be reinstated in BCBSA s sole discretion if, within 30 days of the date of such termination, the Controlled Affiliate demonstrates that the Person referred to in clause (a), (b), or (c) of the preceding paragraph is no longer an Excess Institutional Voter, an Excess Noninstitutional Voter or an Excess Owner. (iii) such other securities as the Controlled Affiliate may approve, provided that BCBSA receives notice at least thirty days prior to the issuance of such securities, including a description of the terms for such securities, and BCBSA shall have the authority to determine how such other securities will be counted in determining whether any Person is an Excess Institutional Voter, Excess Noninstitutional Voter or an Excess Owner. under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and in effect on November 17, 1993 (the Exchange Act ). arrangement or understanding, or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise or Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any security if the agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security (1) arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to such Person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report) or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates) has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities) relating to the acquisition, holding, voting (except to the extent contemplated by the proviso to (ii)2(B) above) or disposing of any securities of the Controlled Affiliate. Person s Beneficial Ownership of securities of the Controlled Affiliate, shall mean the number of such securities then issued and outstanding together with the number of such securities not then actually issued and outstanding which such Person would be deemed to own beneficially hereunder. Plan or Plans or Controlled Affiliate Licensee or Licensees, of 20% or more of the Controlled Affiliate s then outstanding common stock or other equity In the event that the Controlled Affiliate s license, or any other license, to use the Licensed Marks and Name is terminated pursuant to Paragraph (5) The Controlled Affiliate shall not issue any class or series of security other than (i) shares of common stock having identical terms or options or derivatives of such common stock, (ii) non-voting, non-convertible debt securities or (6) For purposes of paragraph 3A(4) above, the following definitions shall apply: (i) Affiliate and Associate shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations (ii) A Person shall be deemed the Beneficial Owner of and shall be deemed to beneficially own any securities: (1) which such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates beneficially owns, directly or indirectly (2) which such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates has (A) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, (B) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the (3) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) with which such Person (or Notwithstanding anything in this definition of Beneficial Ownership to the contrary, the phrase then outstanding, when used with reference to a Amended as of March 26, 2015 (1)(ii) as constituted on June 1, 1997, and (ii) every filing made by such Person with the SEC under Regulation 13D-G (or any successor Regulation) with respect to such Person s Beneficial Ownership of Plan securities shall have contained a certification identical to the one required by item 10 of SEC Schedule 13G as constituted on June 1, 1997. successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity. to strengthening the Licensed Name nationwide. symbols or words as BCBSA shall specify to protect the Licensed Marks and Name and shall comply with such rules (generally applicable to Controlled Affiliates licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name) relative to service mark use, as are issued from time-to-time by BCBSA. Controlled Affiliate recognizes and agrees that all use of the Licensed Marks and Name by Controlled Affiliate shall inure to the benefit of BCBSA. the Service Area the goodwill associated therewith to another mark or name, nor may Controlled Affiliate engage in activity that may dilute or tarnish the unique value of the Licensed Marks and Name. reasonably determined by BCBSA and or the Plan to be in contravention of rules and regulations governing the use of the Licensed Marks and Name, Controlled Affiliate shall for ninety (90) days thereafter obtain prior approval from BCBSA of advertising and promotional efforts using the Licensed Marks and Name, approval or disapproval thereof to be forthcoming within five (5) business days of receipt of same by BCBSA or its designee. In all advertising and promotional efforts, Controlled Affiliate shall observe the Service Area limitations applicable to Plan. (iii) A Person shall be deemed an Institutional Investor if (but only if) such Person (i) is an entity or group identified in the SEC s Rule 13d-1(b) (iv) Noninstitutional Investor means any Person who is not an Institutional Investor. (v) Person shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, trust, association, joint venture or other entity, and shall include any 4. SERVICE MARK USE A. Controlled Affiliate recognizes the importance of a comprehensive national network of independent BCBSA licensees which are committed Marks and Name. The Controlled Affiliate further recognizes that its actions within its Service Area may affect the value of the Licensed Marks and B. Controlled Affiliate shall at all times make proper service mark use of the Licensed Marks and Name, including but not limited to use of such C. Controlled Affiliate may not directly or indirectly use the Licensed Marks and Name in a manner that transfers or is intended to transfer in D. If Controlled Affiliate meets the standards of 2E(1) but not 2E(2) above and any of Controlled Affiliate's advertising or promotional material is Amended as of March 26, 2015 efforts to promote and build the value of the Licensed Marks and Name. rights granted hereunder and any such act shall be voidable at the sole option of Plan or BCBSA. This Agreement and all rights and duties hereunder are personal to Controlled Affiliate. passing off that may occur in relation to the Licensed Marks and Name. Controlled Affiliate shall not be parties. Controlled Affiliate agrees to render to Plan and BCBSA, without charge, all reasonable assistance in connection with any matter pertaining to the protection of the Licensed Marks and Name by BCBSA. costs of every kind, nature and description (except those arising solely as a result of BCBSA's negligence) that may arise as a result of or related to: (i) Controlled Affiliate's rendering of services under the Licensed Marks and Name or (ii) the activities of any hospital, medical group, clinic or other provider of health services that is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by Plan or Controlled Affiliate. automatically extended for additional one (1) year periods unless terminated pursuant to the provisions herein. in the event that: (i) the Plan ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Marks and Name or (ii) pursuant to Paragraph 15(a)(x) of the Blue Cross License Agreement the Plan ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Names and Marks in the geographic area served by the Controlled Affiliate provided, however, that if the Controlled Affiliate is serving more than one State or portions thereof, the termination of this Agreement shall be limited to the State(s) or portions thereof in prescribed by law or regulation, and in any event no later than 120 days after such action is taken, a Plan shall be deemed to have exhausted its rights to appeal or challenge, and automatic termination shall proceed. Plan or the affirmative vote of the majority of the Board of Directors of BCBSA present and voting at a special meeting expressly called by BCBSA for the purpose on ten (10) days written notice to the Plan advising of the specific matters at issue and granting the Plan an opportunity to be heard and to present its response to the Board for: (1) failure to comply with any applicable minimum capital or liquidity requirement under the quality control standards of this Agreement or (2) failure to comply with the "Organization and Governance" quality control standard of thisAgreement or (3) impending financial insolvency or (4) for a Smaller Controlled Affiliate (as defined in Exhibit A), failure to comply with any of the applicable requirements of Standards 2, 3, 4, 5 or 7 of attached Exhibit A or (5) the pendency of any action instituted against the Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business or seeking the declaration or establishment of a trust for any of its property or business, unless this Controlled Affiliate License Agreement has been earlier terminated under paragraph 8(E) or (6) failure by a Controlled Affiliate that meets the standards of 2E(1) but not 2E(2) above to obtain BCBSA's written consent to a change in the identity of any owner, in the extent of E. Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan s License Agreement with BCBSA or in this Agreement, Controlled Affiliate shall use its best 5. SUBLICENSING AND ASSIGNMENT Controlled Affiliate shall not, directly or indirectly, sublicense, transfer, hypothecate, sell, encumber or mortgage, by operation of law or otherwise, the 6. INFRINGEMENT Controlled Affiliate shall promptly notify Plan and Plan shall promptly notify BCBSA of any suspected acts of infringement, unfair competition or entitled to require Plan or BCBSA to take any actions or institute any proceedings to prevent infringement, unfair competition or passing off by third 7. LIABILITY INDEMNIFICATION Controlled Affiliate and Plan hereby agree to save, defend, indemnify and hold BCBSA harmless from and against all claims, damages, liabilities and 8. LICENSE TERM A. Except as otherwise provided herein, the license granted by this Agreement shall remain in effect for a period of one (1) year and shall be B. This Agreement and all of Controlled Affiliate's rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by any party or entity which the Plan s license to use the Licensed Marks and Names is terminated. By not appealing or challenging such regulatory action within the time C. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, this license to use the Licensed Marks and Name may be forthwith terminated by the Amended as of March 26, 2015 Amended as of March 26, 2015 ownership, or in the identity of any person or entity with the authority to select or appoint members or board members, provided that as to publicly traded Controlled Affiliates this provision shall apply only if the change affects a person or entity that owns at least 5% of the Controlled Affiliate's stock before or after the change or (7) such other reason as is determined in good faith immediately and irreparably to threaten the integrity and reputation of BCBSA, the Plans, any other licensee including Controlled Affiliate and or the Licensed Marks and Name. Agreement and not cure such failure within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice thereof (or commence a cure within such thirty day period and continue diligent efforts to complete the cure if such curing cannot reasonably be completed within such thirty day period) BCBSA or the Plan shall have the right to issue a notice that the Controlled Affiliate is in a state of noncompliance. If a state of noncompliance as aforesaid is undisputed by the Controlled Affiliate or is found to exist by a mandatory dispute resolution panel and is uncured as provided above, BCBSA shall have the right to seek judicial enforcement of the Agreement or to issue a notice of termination thereof. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, any disputes as to the termination of this License pursuant to Paragraphs 8(B), 8(C) or 8(E) of this Agreement shall not be subject to mediation and mandatory dispute resolution. All other disputes between BCBSA, the Plan and or Controlled Affiliate shall be submitted promptly to mediation and mandatory dispute resolution. The mandatory dispute resolution panel shall have authority to issue orders for the Licensed Board of Directors of BCBSA. in the event that: arrangement with creditors or other relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or any other law governing insolvency or debtor relief, or (ii) an involuntary petition or proceeding shall be filed against Controlled Affiliate seeking bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement with creditors or other relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or any other law governing insolvency or debtor relief and such petition or proceeding is consented to or acquiesced in by Controlled Affiliate or is not dismissed within sixty (60) days of the date upon which the petition or other document commencing the proceeding is served upon the Controlled Affiliate, or (iii) an order for relief is entered against Controlled Affiliate in any case under the bankruptcy laws of the United States, or Controlled Affiliate is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent as those terms are defined in the Uniform Commercial Code as enacted in the State of Illinois by any court of competent jurisdiction, or (iv) Controlled Affiliate makes a general assignment of its assets for the benefit of creditors, or (v) any government or any government official, office, agency, branch, or unit assumes control of Controlled Affiliate or delinquency proceedings (voluntary or involuntary) are instituted, or (vi) an action is brought by Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking the appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business, or (vii) an action is instituted by any governmental entity or officer against Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking the appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business and such action is consented to or acquiesced in by Controlled Affiliate or is not dismissed within one hundred thirty (130) days of the date upon which the pleading or other document commencing the action is served upon the Controlled Affiliate, provided that if the action is stayed or its prosecution is enjoined, the one hundred thirty (130) day period is tolled for the duration of the stay or injunction, and provided further, that the Association s Board of Directors may toll or extend the 130 day period at any time prior to its expiration, or (viii) a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of Controlled Affiliate's property or business is appointed or the Controlled Affiliate is ordered dissolved or liquidated. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, a declaration or a request for declaration of the existence of a trust over any of the Controlled Affiliate s property or business shall not in itself be D. Except as otherwise provided in Paragraphs 8(B), 8(C) or 8(E) herein, should Controlled Affiliate fail to comply with the provisions of this specific performance and assess monetary penalties. Except, however, as provided in Paragraphs 8(B) and 8(E) of this Agreement, this license to use Marks and Name may not be finally terminated for any reason without the affirmative vote of a majority of the present and voting members of the E. This Agreement and all of Controlled Affiliate s rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by any party or entity (1) Controlled Affiliate shall no longer comply with item 2(E) above (2) Appropriate dues, royalties and other payments for Controlled Affiliate pursuant to paragraph 10 hereof, which are the royalties for this License Agreement, are more than sixty (60) days in arrears to BCBSA or (3) Any of the following events occur: (i) a voluntary petition shall be filed by Controlled Affiliate seeking bankruptcy, reorganization, Amended as of March 26, 2015 of this Agreement. any Controlled Affiliates directly or indirectly owned by the terminated for-profit, publicly traded Controlled Affiliate also shall immediately terminate as provided for in paragraph 3A(4) of this Agreement. Licensed Marks and Name, including any use in its trade name. and, if directed by the Association s Board of Directors, shall provide instruction on how the customer can contact BCBSA or a designated licensee to obtain further information on securing coverage. The notification required by this paragraph shall be in writing and in a form approved by BCBSA. The BCBSA shall have the right to audit the terminated entity's books and records to verify compliance with this paragraph. defined in Exhibit A), upon termination of this Agreement, the provisions of Paragraph 8.G. shall not apply and the following provisions shall apply, except that, in the event of a partial termination of this Agreement pursuant to Paragraph 8(B)(ii) of this Agreement, the notices, national account listing, payment, and audit right listed below shall be applicable solely with respect to the geographic area for which the Plan s license to use the Licensed Names and Marks is terminated. providers, brokers and agents of products or services sold, marketed, underwritten or administered by the Controlled Affiliate under the Licensed Marks and Name. The form and content of the notice shall be specified by BCBSA and shall, at a minimum, notify the recipient of the termination of the license, the consequences thereof, and instructions for obtaining alternate products or services licensed by BCBSA, subject to any conflicting state law and state regulatory requirements. This notice shall be mailed within 15 days after termination. Affiliate is involved (in acontrol, participating or servicing capacity), identifying the national account and the Controlled Affiliate s role therein. BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Name, the Controlled Affiliate, the Plan, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Plan shall be jointly liable for payment to BCBSA of an amount equal to the Re-Establishment Fee (described below) multiplied by the number of Licensed Enrollees of the Controlled deemed to constitute or seek appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for purposes of subparagraphs 8(E)(3)(vii) and (viii) (4) The for-profit, publicly traded Controlled Affiliate is terminated pursuant to Paragraph 3A(4) of this Agreement. In which case, the licenses of F. Upon termination of this Agreement for cause or otherwise, Controlled Affiliate agrees that it shall immediately discontinue all use of the G. Upon termination of this Agreement, Controlled Affiliate shall immediately notify all of its customers that it is no longer a licensee of BCBSA H. In the event this Agreement terminates pursuant to 8(B) hereof, or in the event the Controlled Affiliate is a Larger Controlled Affiliate (as (1) The Controlled Affiliate shall send a notice through the U.S. mails, with first class postage affixed, to all individual and group customers, (2) The Controlled Affiliate shall deliver to BCBSA within five days of a request by BCBSA a listing of national accounts in which the Controlled (3) Unless the cause of termination is an event respecting BCBSA stated in paragraph 15(a) or (b) of the Plan s license agreement with Amended as of March 26, 2015 Amended as of March 26, 2015 Affiliate provided that if any other Plan is permitted by BCBSA to use marks or names licensed by BCBSA in the Service Area established by this Agreement, the Re- Establishment Fee shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of Licensed Enrollees of the Controlled Affiliate, the Plan, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates and the denominator of which is the total number of Licensed Enrollees in the Service Area. establishment Fee for calendar years after December 31, 2005 shall be adjusted on January 1 of each calendar year up to and including January 1, 2010 and shall be the base fee multiplied by 100% plus the cumulative percentage increase or decrease in the Plans gross administrative expense (standard BCBSA definition) per Licensed Enrollee since December 31, 2004. The adjustment shall end on January 1, 2011, at which time the Re-Establishment Fee shall be fixed at the then- current amount and no longer automatically adjusted. For example, if the Plans gross administrative expense per Licensed Enrollee was 278.60, 285.00 and 290.00 for calendar year end 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively, the January 1, 2007 Re-Establishment Fee would be 83.27 (100% of base fee plus 1.84 for calendar year 2005 and 1.43 for calendar year 2006). Licensed Enrollee means each and every person and covered dependent who is enrolled as an individual or member of a group receiving products or services sold, marketed or administered under marks or names licensed by BCBSA as determined at the earlier of (i) the end of the last fiscal year of the terminated entity which ended prior to termination or (ii) the fiscal year which ended before any transactions causing the termination began. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount payable pursuant to this subparagraph H. (3) shall be due only to the extent that, in BCBSA s opinion, it does not cause the net worth of the Controlled Affiliate, the Plan or any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Plan to fall below 100% of the Health Risk-Based Capital formula, or its equivalent under any successor formula, as set forth in the applicable financial responsibility standards established by BCBSA (provided such equivalent is approved for purposes of this sub paragraph by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans) measured as of the date of termination, and adjusted for the value of any transactions not made in the ordinary course of business. This payment shall not be due in connection with transactions exclusively by or among Plans or their affiliates, including reorganizations, combinations or mergers, where the BCBSA Board of Directors determines that the license termination does not result in a material diminution in the number of Licensed Enrollees or the extent of their coverage. At least 50% of the Re- Establishment Fee shall be awarded to the Plan (or Plans) that receive the new license(s) for the service area(s) at issue provided, however, that such award shall not become due or payable until all disputes, if any, regarding the amount of and BCBSA s right to such Re- Establishment Fee have been finally resolved and provided further that the award shall be govern BCBSA s use of its portion of the award. In the event that the Controlled Affiliate s license is reinstated by BCBSA or is deemed to have remained in effect without interruption by a court of competent jurisdiction, BCBSA shall reimburse the Controlled Affiliate (and or the Plan or its other Licensed Controlled Affiliates, as the case may be) for payments made under this subparagraph 8.H.(3) only to the extent that such payments exceed the amounts due to BCBSA pursuant to paragraph 8.M. and any costs associated with reestablishing the Service Area, including payments made by BCBSA to a Plan or Plans (or their Licensed Controlled Affiliates) for purposes of replacing the Controlled Affiliate. Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Plan to verify compliance with this paragraph 8.H. acquired or accessed during the period this Agreement was in force, including but not limited to all confidential processes, pricing, provider, discount and other strategic and competitively sensitive information ( Blue Information ) from disclosure, and shall not, either alone or with another entity, disclose such Blue Information or use it in any manner to compete without the express written permission of BCBSA. parties agree there is no adequate remedy at law and BCBSA is entitled to obtain specific performance. notice to the Association or upon a shorter notice period approved by BCBSA in writing at its sole discretion, or until terminated as otherwise provided herein. The Plan s right to terminate without cause upon such notice is unfettered and may be exercised in the Plan s sole discretion. for the amount described in The Re-Establishment Fee shall be indexed to a base fee of 80. The Re-Establishment Fee through December 31, 2005 shall be 80. The Re- based on the final amount actually received by BCBSA. The Board of Directors shall adopt a resolution which it may amend from time to time that shall (4) BCBSA shall have the right to examine and audit and or hire at terminated entity s expense a third party auditor to examine and audit the books and records of the Controlled Affiliate, the Plan, and any other (5) Subsequent to termination of this Agreement, the terminated entity and its affiliates, agents, and employees shall have an ongoing and continuing obligation to protect all BCBSA and Blue Licensee data that was (6) As to a breach of 8.H.(1), (2), (3), (4) or (5) the parties agree that the obligations are immediately enforceable in a court of competent jurisdiction. As to a breach of 8.H.(1), (2) or (4) by the Controlled Affiliate, the I. This Agreement shall remain in effect until terminated by the Controlled Affiliate or the Plan upon not less than eighteen (18) months written J. In the event the Controlled Affiliate is a Smaller Controlled Affiliate (as defined in Exhibit A), the Controlled Affiliate agrees to be jointly liable H.3. and M. hereof upon termination of the BCBSA license agreement of any Larger Controlled Affiliate of the Plan. K. BCBSA shall be entitled to enjoin the Controlled Affiliate or any related party in a court of competent jurisdiction from entry into any Amended as of March 26, 2015 transaction which would result in a termination of this Agreement unless the Plan s license from BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Names has been terminated pursuant to 10(d) of the Plan s license agreement upon the required 18 months written notice. Controlled Affiliate (as defined in Exhibit A), then the vote called for in Paragraphs 8(C) and 8(D) above shall require the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans. interruption by a court of competent jurisdiction, the Controlled Affiliate, the Plan, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Plan shall be jointly liable for reimbursing BCBSA the reasonable costs incurred by BCBSA in connection with the termination and the reinstatement or court action, and any associated legal proceedings, including but not limited to: outside legal fees, consulting fees, public relations fees, advertising costs, and costs incurred to develop, lease or establish an interim provider network. Any amount due to BCBSA under this subparagraph may be waived in whole or in part by the BCBSA Board of Directors in its sole discretion. use in any manner the Blue Cross and Blue Cross Marks and Name are subject to the Mediation and Mandatory Dispute Resolution process attached to and made a part of Plan's License from BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Name as Exhibit 5 as amended from time-to-time, which documents are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth herein. Controlled Affiliate or between either and BCBSA. last known address of each other party, marked respectively to the attention of its President and, if any, its General Counsel. L. BCBSA acknowledges that it is not the owner of assets of the Controlled Affiliate. M. In the event that the Plan has more than 50 percent voting control of the Controlled Affiliate under Paragraph 2(E)(2) above and is a Larger N. In the event this Agreement terminates and is subsequently reinstated by BCBSA or is deemed to have remained in effect without 9. DISPUTE RESOLUTION The parties agree that any disputes between them or between or among either of them and one or more Plans or Controlled Affiliates of Plans that 10. LICENSE FEE Controlled Affiliate will pay to BCBSA a fee for this License determined pursuant to the formula(s) set forth in Exhibit C. 11. JOINT VENTURE Nothing contained in the Agreement shall be construed as creating a joint venture, partnership, agency or employment relationship between Plan and 12. NOTICES AND CORRESPONDENCE Notices regarding the subject matter of this Agreement or breach or termination thereof shall be in writing and shall be addressed in duplicate to the Amended as of March 26, 2015 the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans as officially recorded by the BCBSA Corporate Secretary. of the parties hereunder and the court may substitute a lawful term or condition for any unlawful term or condition so long as the effect of such substitution is to provide the parties with the benefits of this Agreement. conditions of and or the Blue Shield License Agreement, and in all votes of the Plans under this Agreement the Plans shall vote together. For weighted votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have a number of votes equal to the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Cross Plan plus the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Shield Plan. For all other votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have one vote. For all questions requiring an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote of the Plans, the requirement shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless the greater of: (i) 6 52 or more of the Plans (rounded to the nearest whole number, with 0.5 or multiples thereof being rounded to the next higher whole number) fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question or (ii) three (3) of the Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless four (4) or more Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. 13. COMPLETE AGREEMENT This Agreement contains the complete understandings of the parties in relation to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may only be amended by 14. SEVERABILITY If any term of this Agreement is held to be unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction, such findings shall in no way affect the remaining obligations 15. NONWAIVER No waiver by BCBSA of any breach or default in performance on the part of Controlled Affiliate or any other licensee of any of the terms, covenants or this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach or default in performance of said terms, covenants or conditions. 15A. VOTING For all provisions of this Agreement referring to voting, the term Plans shall mean all entities licensed under the Blue Cross License Agreement Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, if there are thirty-nine (39) Plans, the requirement of an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote shall be THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY BLANK. Amended as of March 26, 2015 Amended as of March 26, 2015 16. GOVERNING LAW This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of Illinois. 17. HEADINGS The headings inserted in this agreement are for convenience only and shall have no bearing on the interpretation hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this License Agreement to be executed and effective as of the date of last signature written below. Controlled Affiliate: Date: Date: BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION Date: member enrollment (as reported on the BCBSA Quarterly Enrollment Report, excluding rider and freestanding coverage, and treating an entity seeking licensure as licensed) or (2) underwrites the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance and has total premium revenue less than 15 percent of the Sponsoring Plan s net subscription revenue. enrollment (as reported on the BCBSA Quarterly Enrollment Report, excluding rider and freestanding coverage, and treating an entity seeking licensure as licensed.) Affiliate shall notify BCBSA within thirty (30) days of such occurrence in writing and come into compliance with the applicable standards within six (6) months. member enrollment of the Sponsoring Plan and licensed Controlled Affiliates, the Controlled Affiliate shall: capital (BCBSA Health Risk-Based Capital (HRBC) as defined by the NAIC and state-established minimum reserve) requirements of the larger Controlled Affiliate Financial Responsibility standard and for a larger Controlled Affiliate. CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE STANDARDS November 2019 PREAMBLE For purposes of definition: A "smaller Controlled Affiliate:" (1) comprises less than fifteen percent (15%) of Sponsoring Plan's and its licensed Controlled Affiliates' total A "larger Controlled Affiliate" comprises fifteen percent (15%) or more of Sponsoring Plan's and its licensed Controlled Affiliates' total member Changes in Controlled Affiliate status: If any Controlled Affiliate's status changes regarding: its Plan ownership level, its risk acceptance or direct delivery of medical care, the Controlled If a smaller Controlled Affiliate s health and workers compensation administration business reaches or surpasses fifteen percent (15%) of the total EXHIBIT A (continued) 1. Within thirty (30) days, notify BCBSA of this fact in writing, including evidence that the Controlled Affiliate meets the minimum liquidity and 2. Within six (6) months after reaching or surpassing the fifteen percent (15%) threshold, demonstrate compliance with all license requirements Amended as of September 19, 2014 Amended as of March 26, 2015 rating, the Controlled Affiliate shall notify BCBSA within 30 days of notification by the external rating agency. Report (excluding rider and freestanding coverage). If a Controlled Affiliate that underwrites the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance receives a change in rating or proposed change in For purposes of this calculation, The numerator equals: Applicant Controlled Affiliate's member enrollment, as defined in BCBSA's Quarterly Enrollment Report (excluding rider and freestanding coverage). The denominator equals: Numerator PLUS Sponsoring Plan and all other licensed Controlled Affiliates' member enrollment, as reported in BCBSA's Quarterly Enrollment EXHIBIT A (continued) Each licensed controlled affiliate shall be subject to certain standards as determined below: 1. What percent of the licensed controlled affiliate is controlled by the Sponsoring Plan and other Plans? 2. Is risk being assumed? More than 50% by Sponsoring Plan Standard 1A, 4 50% by Sponsoring Plan Standard 1B, 4 STANDARDS FOR LICENSED CONTROLLED AFFILIATES 100% Plan control but less than 50% Sponsoring Plan Control and it offers solely Medicaid, Medicare Advantage PPO, Medicare Advantage HMO and or Special Need Plans products and services IN ADDITION, Amended as of September 19, 2014 branded basis, it only offers a Basic Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan 100% Sponsoring Plan control and on a Blue- Standard 1D, 4 At least 50% by Sponsoring Plan or operational Control by Sponsoring Plan and it solely operates as a Clinic as defined in Standard 1E. Standard 1E, 4 total member enrollment of Plan and its licensed Controlled Affiliates? Standards 6A- 6J Controlled Affiliate underwrites any indemnity portion of workers compensatio n insurance Standards 7A- 7E, 11 3. Is medical care being directly provided as a staff model HMO? EXHIBIT A (continued) Each licensed controlled affiliate shall be subject to certain standards as determined below: 4. Is the licensed controlled affiliate operating as a Clinic as defined in Standard 1(E 5. If the controlled affiliate has health or workers compensation administration business, does such business comprise 15% or more of the Controlled Affiliate comprises 15% of total member enrollment of Sponsoring Plan and its licensed affiliates, and does not underwrite the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance Standard 2 (Guidelines 1.1,1.2) and Standard 11 Standard 3A Yes Controlled Affiliate is not a former primary licensee and is not subject to Standard 1(C) Standards 5,8,9B,10,11 Standard 3C and Standard 2, 1.4 (if organized as a health plan that also operates as a Clinic) Controlled Affiliate comprises 15% of total member enrollment of Sponsoring Plan and its licensed affiliates, and does not underwrite the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance Standard 6H STANDARDS FOR LICENSED CONTROLLED AFFILIATES Controlled Affiliate is a former primary licensee Standards 5,8,9A,10,11 IN ADDITION, IN ADDITION, Controlled Affiliate comprises 15% of total member enrollment of Sponsoring Plan and its licensed affiliates  Standard 2 (Guidelines 1.1,1.3) and Standard 11 Standard 3B Controlled Affiliate comprises 15% of total member enrollment of Sponsoring Plan and its licensed affiliates Standard 6H Controlled Affiliate is not a former primary licensee and is subject to Standard 1(C) Standards 5,8,9B,11 Amended June 20, 2019 Controlled Affiliate pursuant to the separate Primary License Agreement with BCBSA , has the legal authority, directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: 1) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body having more than 50% voting control thereof and 2) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with which the Sponsoring Plan does not concur and 3) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries shall own more than 50% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. Controlled Affiliate pursuant to the separate Primary License Agreement with BCBSA has the legal authority, directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: which the Sponsoring Plan does not concur and individually) other than the Sponsoring Plan. written approval by Sponsoring Plan before the Controlled Affiliate can: EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 1 - Organization and Governance 1A.) The Standard for more than 50% Plan control is: A Controlled Affiliate shall be organized and operated in such a manner that a Plan authorized to use the Licensed Marks in the Service Area of the 1B.) The Standard for 50% Plan control is: A Controlled Affiliate shall be organized and operated in such a manner that a Plan authorized to use the Licensed Marks in the Service Area of the 1) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body having not less than 50% voting control thereof and 2) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with 3) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate at least equal to that exercised by persons or entities (jointly or EXHIBIT A (continued) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in 1) through 3) hereof, the Controlled Affiliate s establishing or governing documents must also require as of September 19, 2014 Amended June 20, 2019 authority to select or appoint members or board members of the Controlled Affiliate, other than the Sponsoring Plan or other Plans (excluding owners of stock holdings of under 5% in a publicly traded Controlled Affiliate) Plans products and service and has 100% Plan control but less than 50% Sponsoring Plan Control is: Advantage HMO and or Special Need Plans products and services and (ii) a Plan authorized to use the Licensed Marks in the Service Area of the Controlled Affiliate pursuant to the separate Primary License Agreement with BCBSA has the legal authority together with Other Plans: 100% of anyfor- Plans shall be direct or, if indirect, solely through affiliates that are licensed to use marks owned by BCBSA. Further, the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans shall execute the Addendum to Controlled Affiliate License. 100% Plan control is: Prescription Drug Plan product and (ii) the Sponsoring Plan has the legal authority: direct or, if indirect, solely through affiliates that are licensed to use marks owned by BCBSA. change the geographic area in which it operates change its legal and or trade names change any of the types of businesses in which it engages create, or become liable for by way of guarantee, any indebtedness, other than indebtedness arising in the ordinary course of business sell any assets, except for sales in the ordinary course of business or sales of equipment no longer useful or being replaced make any loans or advances except in the ordinary course of business enter into any arrangement or agreement with any party directly or indirectly affiliated with any of the owners or persons or entities with the conduct any business other than under the Licensed Marks and Name take any action that the Sponsoring Plan or BCBSA reasonablybelieves will adversely affect the Licensed Marks and Name. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries shall own at least 50% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. 1C.) The Standard for a Controlled Affiliate that offers solely Medicaid, Medicare Advantage PPO, Medicare Advantage HMO and or Special Need A Controlled Affiliate shall be organized and operated in such a manner that (i) it offers solely Medicaid, Medicare Advantage PPO, Medicare 1) to select all members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body and 2) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws, or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate and 3) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans shall own profit Controlled Affiliate, with the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans each having an ownership interest. Such 100% control and ownership by 1D.) The Standard for a Controlled Affiliate that on a Blue-branded basis only offers a Basic Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan product and has A Controlled Affiliate shall be organized and operated in such a manner that (i) on a Blue-branded basis, it only offers a Basic Medicare Part D 1) to select all members of the Controlled Affiliate's governing body and 2) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate and 3) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. Such 100% control and ownership by Sponsoring Plan must be Amended September 19, 2014 Controlled Affiliate. incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate. Further, the Sponsoring Plan and Participating Plan shall execute the Addendum to Controlled Affiliate License. 1E.) The Standard for a Controlled Affiliate that operates as a Clinic and the Sponsoring Plan has control of the Clinic is: A Controlled Affiliate shall be organized in such a manner that it operates as a Clinic and the Sponsoring Plan exercises operation control over the In addition, if the Clinic is for-profit, the Sponsoring Plan shall own at least 50% of the Controlled Affiliate and prevent any change in the articles of Board of Directors customers. If a risk- assuming Controlled Affiliate ceases operations for any reason, Blue Cross and or Blue Cross Plan coverage will be offered to all Controlled Affiliate subscribers without exclusions, limitations or conditions based on health status. If a nonrisk-assuming Controlled Affiliate ceases operations for any reason, Sponsoring Plan will provide for services to its customers. The requirements of the preceding two sentences shall apply to all lines of business unless a line of business is specially exempted from the requirement(s) by the BCBSA Board of Directors. Blue Cross and Blue Shield System and 2) the independent nature of every licensee and 3) the Controlled Affiliate's financial condition. and the License Agreements between BCBSA and Controlled Affiliate. Controlled Affiliate shall maintain a governing Board, which shall control the Controlled Affiliate, composed of a majority of persons other than providers of health care services, who shall be known as public members. A public member shall not be an employee of or have a financial interest in a health care Standard 6 - Other Standards for Larger Controlled Affiliates Standards 6(A) - (I) that follow apply to larger Controlled Affiliates. Standard 6(A): EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 2 - Financial Responsibility A Controlled Affiliate shall be operated in a manner that provides reasonable financial assurance that it can fulfill all of its contractual obligations to its Standard 3 - State Licensure Certification 3A.) The Standard for a Controlled Affiliate that employs, owns or contracts on a substantially exclusive basis for medical services is: A Controlled Affiliate shall maintain unimpaired licensure or certification for its medical care providers to operate under applicable state laws. 3B.) The Standard for a Controlled Affiliate that does not employ, own or contract on a substantially exclusive basis for medical services is: A Controlled Affiliate shall maintain unimpaired licensure or certification to operate under applicable state laws. 3C.) The Standard for a Controlled Affiliate that operates as a Clinic as defined in Standard 1(E) is: A Controlled Affiliate shall maintain appropriate and unimpaired licensure and certifications. Standard 4 - Certain Disclosures A Controlled Affiliate shall make adequate disclosure in contracting with third parties and in disseminating public statements of 1) the structure of the EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 5 - Reports and Records for Certain Smaller Controlled Affiliates For a smaller Controlled Affiliate that does not underwrite the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance, the Standard is: A Controlled Affiliate and or its Sponsoring licensed Plan shall furnish, on a timely and accurate basis, reports and records relating to these Standards A Controlled Affiliate Governing Board shall act in the interest of its Corporation in providing cost-effective health care services to its customers. A Amended as of June 20, 2019 Amended June 20, 2019 provider, nor be a member of a profession which provides health care services. the purposes of providing portability of membership between the licensees and ease of claims processing for customers receiving benefits outside of the Controlled Affiliate's Service Area. programs and contracts of an inter-licensee nature or where BCBSA is a party. Plan Performance Response Process and in addressing Controlled Affiliate performance problems identified thereunder. Affiliate shall use its best efforts to promote and build the value of the Blue Cross Mark. Standard 6(B): Responsiveness to Customers A Controlled Affiliate shall be operated in a manner responsive to customer needs and requirements. Standard 6(C): Participation in National Programs A Controlled Affiliate shall effectively and efficiently participate in each national program as from time to time may be adopted by the Member Plans for EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 6(C): Participation in National Programs (continued) Such programs are applicable to licensees, and include: 1. BlueCard Program 2. Inter-Plan Teleprocessing System (ITS) 3. National Account Programs 4. Business Associate Agreement for Blue Cross and Blue Shield Licensees, effective April 14, 2003 and 5. Inter-Plan Medicare Advantage Program. Standard 6(D): Financial Performance Requirements In addition to requirements under the national programs listed in Standard 6C: Participation in National Programs, a Controlled Affiliate shall take such action as required to ensure its financial performance in Standard 6(E): Cooperation with Plan Performance Response Process A Controlled Affiliate shall cooperate with BCBSA's Board of Directors and its Brand Enhancement & Protection Committee in the administration of the Standard 6(F): Independent Financial Rating A Controlled Affiliate shall obtain a rating of its financial strength from an independent rating agency approved by BCBSA's Board of Directors for such Standard 6(G): Local and National Best Efforts Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan s License Agreement with BCBSA or in this License Agreement, during each year, a Controlled Amended as of September 19, 2014 customers. License Agreements between BCBSA and Controlled Affiliate. Such reports and records are the following: changes in a Controlled Affiliate's Board composition, or changes in the identity of the Controlled Affiliate's Principal Officers, and changes in risk acceptance, contract growth, or direct delivery of medical care and Examination Report, Annual Statement filed with State Insurance Department (with all attachments), and EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 6(H): Financial Responsibility A Controlled Affiliate shall be operated in a manner that provides reasonable financial assurance that it can fulfill all of its contractual obligations to its Standard 6(I): Reports and Records A Controlled Affiliate shall furnish to BCBSA on a timely and accurate basis reports and records relating to compliance with these Standards and the A) BCBSA Controlled Affiliate Licensure Information Request and B) Triennial trade name and service mark usage material, including disclosure material and C) Changes in the ownership and governance of the Controlled Affiliate, including changes in its charter, articles of incorporation, or bylaws, D) Semi-annual Health Risk-Based Capital (HRBC) Report as defined by the NAIC, Annual Certified Audit Report, Insurance Department EXHIBIT A (continued) Amended as of November 17, 2011 Amended as of November 21, 2014 Affiliate or to acquire a substantial portion of its assets related to licensable services. customers. Agreements between BCBSA and the Controlled Affiliate. Such reports and records are the following: Based Capital Worksheets for Property and Casualty Insurers and reports and changes in a Controlled Affiliate s Board composition, Plan control, state license status, operating area, the Controlled Affiliate s Principal Officers or direct delivery of medical care. resolution of medical and indemnity claims. medical professionals and timely and appropriate return to work. Standard 6(J): Control by Unlicensed Entities Prohibited No Controlled Affiliate shall cause or permit an entity other than a Plan or a Licensed Controlled Affiliate thereof to obtain control of the Controlled Standard 7 - Other Standards for Risk-Assuming Workers Compensation Controlled Affiliates Standards 7(A) - (E) that follow apply to Controlled Affiliates that underwrite the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance. Standard 7 (A): Financial Responsibility A Controlled Affiliate shall be operated in a manner that provides reasonable financial assurance that it can fulfill all of its contractual obligations to its Standard 7(B): Reports and Records A Controlled Affiliate shall furnish, on a timely and accurate basis, reports and records relating to compliance with these Standards and the License A. BCBSA Controlled Affiliate Licensure Information Request and B. Triennial trade name and service mark usage materials, including disclosure materials and C. Annual Certified Audit Report, Annual Statement as filed with the State Insurance Department (with all attachments), Annual NAIC s Risk- D. Quarterly Estimated Risk-Based Capital for Property and Casualty Insurers, Insurance Department Examination Report and EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 7(B): Reports and Records, continued E. Notification of all changes and proposed changes to independent ratings within 30 days of receipt and submission of a copy of all rating F. Changes in the ownership and governance of the Controlled Affiliate including changes in its charter, articles of incorporation, or bylaws, Standard 7(C): Loss Prevention A Controlled Affiliate shall apply loss prevention protocol to both new and existing business. Standard 7(D): Claims Administration A Controlled Affiliate shall maintain an effective claims administration process that includes all the necessary functions to assure prompt and proper Standard 7(E): Disability and Provider Management A Controlled Affiliate shall arrange for the provision of appropriate and necessary medical and rehabilitative services to facilitate early intervention by Amended as of November 17, 2011 the administration of the Controlled Affiliate License Performance Response Process Protocol (ALPRPP) and in addressing Controlled Affiliate compliance problems identified thereunder. time as may be adopted by Member Plans for the purposes of providing ease of claims processing for customers receiving benefits outside of the Controlled Affiliate s service area and be subject to certain relevant financial and reporting requirements. EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 8 - Cooperation with Controlled Affiliate License Performance Response Process Protocol A Controlled Affiliate and its Sponsoring Plan shall cooperate with BCBSA s Board of Directors and its Brand Enhancement & Protection Committee in Standard 9(A) - Participation in National Programs by Smaller Controlled Affiliates that were former Primary Licensees A smaller controlled affiliate that formerly was a Primary Licensee shall effectively and efficiently participate in certain national programs from time to A. National program requirements include: BlueCard Program Inter-Plan Teleprocessing System (ITS) National Account Programs. B. Financial Requirements include: Standard 6(D): Financial Performance Requirements and Standard 6(H): Financial Responsibility or A financial guarantee covering the Controlled Affiliate s Inter-Plan Programs obligations in a form, and from a guarantor, acceptable to Amended as of November 16, 2000 effectively and efficiently participate in national programs from time to time as may be adopted by Member Plans for the purposes of providing ease of claims processing for customers receiving benefits outside of the controlled affiliate s service area and be subject to certain relevant financial and reporting requirements. EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 9(A) - Participation in National Programs by Smaller Controlled Affiliates that were former Primary Licensees C. Reporting requirements include: The Semi-annual Health Risk-Based Capital (HRBC) Report. EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 9(B) - Participation in National Programs by Smaller Controlled Affiliates A smaller controlled affiliate shall participate in national programs in accordance with BlueCard and other relevant Policies and Provisions shall Amended as of November 21, 2014 Amended as of June 13, 2002 shall effectively and efficiently participate in certain national programs from time to time as may be adopted by Member Plans for the purposes of providing ease of claims processing for customers receiving benefits outside of the controlled affiliate s service area. Shield Licensees to the extent they perform the functions of a business associate or subcontractor to a business associate, as defined by the Business Associate Agreement. A. National program requirements include: BlueCard Program Inter-Plan Teleprocessing System (ITS) National Account Programs. B. Financial Requirements include: Standard 6(D): Financial Performance Requirements and Standard 6(H): Financial Responsibility or A financial guarantee covering the Controlled Affiliate s Inter-Plan Programs obligations in a form, and from a guarantor, acceptable to EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 10 - Participation in Inter-Plan Medicare Advantage Program A smaller controlled affiliate for which this standard applies pursuant to the Preamble section of Exhibit A of the Controlled Affiliate License Agreement National program requirements include: A. Inter-Plan Medicare Advantage Program. Standard 11: Participation in Master Business Associate Agreement by Smaller Controlled Affiliate Licensees Effective April 14, 2003, all smaller controlled affiliates shall comply with the terms of the Business Associate Agreement for Blue Cross and Blue Amended as of June 20, 2013 AFFILIATE LICENSE STANDARD 1C. Association ( Licensor ), ( Controlled Affiliate Licensee ) and Plans ( Other Plans ). This Addendum is made and shall be deemed effective as of the date of the Agreement. Plans market in its Service Area more efficiently and with less risk through an enterprise jointly owned and controlled with other Plans than through a wholly owned and Controlled Affiliate Licensee. and controlled by the Sponsoring Plan but which is 100% owned and controlled by Plans including the Sponsoring Plan, subject to certain conditions understand that participation may take many forms, one of which should be providing a network of providers in the Service Area of the Controlled Affiliate for the Medicaid, Medicare Advantage PPO, Medicare Advantage HMO and or Special Need Plans services being offered under the Agreement and being involved in network development and provider engagement functions. EXHIBIT B-1 ADDENDUM TO CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE TO BE EXECUTED BY CONTROLLED AFFILIATES LICENSED UNDER CONTROLLED This Addendum is made to that certain Blue Cross Controlled Affiliate License Agreement executed by and among Blue Cross and Blue Shield ( Sponsoring Plan ) dated the day of , ( Agreement ). The parties to this Addendum are Licensor, Controlled Affiliate Licensee, Sponsoring Plan, and the undersigned other WHEREAS, the Sponsoring Plan asserts that it can serve the Medicaid, Medicare Advantage PPO, Medicare Advantage HMO and or Special Need WHEREAS, in such circumstance Controlled Affiliate License Standard 1C permits the licensing of a Controlled Affiliate that is less than 50% owned WHEREAS, one such condition is that the Sponsoring Plan and all such other owning and controlling Plans enter into this Addendum NOW THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, including the promises and covenants set forth herein, the parties agree as follows: 1. This Addendum is limited to [identify product name]. 2. The Sponsoring Plan shall participate operationally in Controlled Affiliate s business that is conducted under the Licensed Marks. The parties 3. Each of the Other Plans agrees that (i) it will cooperate fully with the Sponsoring Plan and BCBSA as needed to enable Sponsoring Plan and ADDENDUM TO CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE Amended as of September 19, 2014 the Brand Regulations, (ii) it will not take any action, either individually or jointly with any of the Other Plans, that would cause Sponsoring Plan or Controlled Affiliate Licensee to violate the Agreement, and (iii) it will not fail to take any action, either individually or jointly with any of the Other Plans, where such failure would cause Sponsoring Plan or Controlled Affiliate Licensee to violate the Agreement. the Agreement without cause upon notice as provided in Paragraph 8 of the Agreement, and that such right is unfettered and may be exercised by Sponsoring Plan in its sole discretion. AFFILIATE LICENSE STANDARD 1D. Association ( Licensor ), ( Controlled Affiliate Licensee ), where the Controlled Affiliate will use the Service Marks Participating Plan s Service Area through the Controlled Affiliate Licensee Controlled Affiliate Licensee to meet their obligations to Licensor under the Agreement and all associated rules and regulations of Licensor, including 4. Each of the Other Plans acknowledges that it has reviewed the Agreement and understands that Sponsoring Plan has the right to terminate WHEREFORE, by signing below the parties agree to be bound to the terms stated herein. BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION [Controlled Affiliate Licensee] [Sponsoring Plan] [Other Plan 1] [Other Plan 2] EXHIBIT B-2 ADDENDUM TO CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE TO BE EXECUTED BY CONTROLLED AFFILIATES LICENSED UNDER CONTROLLED This Addendum is made to that certain Blue Cross Controlled Affiliate License Agreement executed by and among Blue Cross and Blue Shield ( Sponsoring Plan ) and ( Participating Plan ) dated the day of , ( Agreement ). WHEREAS, the Participating Plan is defined as the Plan that holds the Primary License with BCBSA to use the Service Marks in the Service Area WHEREAS, the Participating Plan asserts that it can offer a lower cost Basic Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan product more efficiently in the ADDENDUM TO CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE Amended September 27, 2018 signing a separate Addendum controlled by a Sponsoring Plan, subject to certain conditions that the Participating Plan shall conduct sales support and marketing of the Controlled Affiliate s Basic Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan product offered in the Participating Plan s Service Area. Any other form of participation shall require BCBSA s written approval. the Brand Regulations, (ii) it will not take any action that would cause Sponsoring Plan or Controlled Affiliate Licensee to violate the Agreement, and (iii) it will not fail to take any action, either individually or jointly with the Sponsoring Plan or Controlled Affiliate Licensee, where such failure would cause Sponsoring Plan or Controlled Affiliate Licensee to violate the Agreement. Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan product offered in the Participating Plan s Service Area. the right to terminate this Agreement: (i) immediately upon the expiration or termination of the Plan Participation Agreement by and between Participating Plan and Controlled Affiliate upon written notice to the Sponsoring Plan, Controlled Affiliate Licensee and Licensor, or (ii) without cause upon 18 months written notice to the Sponsoring Plan, Controlled Affiliate Licensee and Licensor, and that such right is unfettered and may be exercised by Participating Plan in its sole discretion. In the event that Participating Plan and Controlled Affiliate fail to execute the Plan Participation Agreement by (Date), Participating Plan may terminate this Agreement immediately upon notice to Sponsoring Plan, Controlled Affiliate Licensee and Licensor. or entity in the event that the Sponsoring Plan or Participating Plan ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Marks and Name. WHEREAS, the Controlled Affiliate shall only use the Service Marks inside of the Participating Plan(s) Service Area subject to each Participating Plan WHEREAS, in such circumstance Controlled Affiliate License Standard 1D permits the licensing of a Controlled Affiliate that is 100% owned and WHEREAS, one such condition is that the Sponsoring Plan, Controlled Affiliate and the Participating Plan enter into this Addendum NOW THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, including the promises and covenants set forth herein, the parties agree as follows: 1. The Participating Plan shall participate in Controlled Affiliate s business that is conducted under the Licensed Marks. The parties understand 2. Participating Plan agrees that (i) it will cooperate fully with the Sponsoring Plan and BCBSA as needed to enable Sponsoring Plan and Controlled Affiliate Licensee to meet their obligations to Licensor under the Agreement and all associated rules and regulations of Licensor, including 3. The Controlled Affiliate Licensee shall only use the Licensed Marks authorized by the Participating Plan in connection with the Basic 4. The Sponsoring Plan and Controlled Affiliate acknowledge that it hasreviewed the Agreement and understands that Participating Plan has 5. This Agreement and all of Controlled Affiliate Licensee's rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by any party WHEREFORE, by signing below the parties agree to be bound to the terms stated herein. BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION [Controlled Affiliate Licensee] [Sponsoring Plan] [Participating Plan] using the Marks on health care plans and related services as reported on the Quarterly Enrollment Report with BCBSA. The payment by Sponsoring Plan of its dues to BCBSA, including that portion described in this paragraph, will satisfy the requirement of this paragraph, and no separate payment will be necessary. 5,000 per license for a Controlled Affiliate subject to Standard 7. EXHIBIT C ROYALTY FORMULA FOR SECTION 9 OF THE CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE AGREEMENT Controlled Affiliate will pay BCBSA a fee for this license in accordance with the following formula: FOR RISK PRODUCTS: For Controlled Affiliates not underwriting the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance: An amount equal to its pro rata share of Sponsoring Plan's dues payable to BCBSA computed with the addition of the Controlled Affiliate's members For Controlled Affiliates underwriting the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance: An amount equal to 0.35 percent of the gross revenue per annum of Controlled Affiliate arising from products using the marks plus, an annual fee of EXHIBIT C (continued) FOR NONRISK PRODUCTS: Amended as of September 19, 2014 Amended March 17, 2016 of the Controlled Affiliate s members using the Marks on health care plans and related services as reported on the Quarterly Enrollment Report with BCBSA. The payment by Sponsoring Plan of its dues to BCBSA, including that portion described in this paragraph, will satisfy the requirement of this paragraph, and no separate payment will be necessary. per annum of Controlled Affiliate arising from products using the marks plus: the event that any license period is greater or less than one (1) year, any amounts due shall be prorated. Royalties under this formula will be calculated, billed and paid in arrears. (collectively the "Licensed Marks") as service marks and be entitled to use the term BLUE CROSS in a trade name ("Licensed Name") the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows: and Names in connection with and only in connection with those life insurance and related services authorized by applicable state law, other than health care plans and related services (as defined in the Plan's License Agreements with BCBSA) which services are not separately licensed to Controlled Affiliate by BCBSA, in the Service Area served by the Plan, except that BCBSA reserves the right to use the Licensed Marks and Name in said Service Area, and except to the extent that said Service Area may overlap the area or areas served by one or more other licensed Blue Cross Plans as of the date of this License as to which overlapping areas the rights hereby granted are non-exclusive as to such other Plan or Plans and their respective Licensed Controlled Affiliates only. Controlled Affiliate cannot use the Licensed Marks or Name outside the Service Area or in its legal or trade name provided, however, that if and only for so long as Controlled Affiliate also holds a Blue Cross Controlled Affiliate License Agreement applicable to health care plans and related services, Controlled For third-party administrative business, an amount equal to its pro rata share of Sponsoring Plan s dues payable to BCBSA computed with the addition For non-third party administrative business (e.g., case management, provider networks, etc.), an amount equal to 0.24 percent of the gross revenue 1) An annual fee of 5,000 per license for a Controlled Affiliate subject to Standard 6 D. 2) An annual fee of 2,000 per license for all other Controlled Affiliates. The foregoing shall be reduced by one-half where both a BLUE CROSS and BLUE SHIELD License are issued to the same Controlled Affiliate. In This agreement by and among Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ("BCBSA") ("Controlled Affiliate"), a Controlled Affiliate of the Blue Cross Plan(s), known as ("Plan"). WHEREAS, BCBSA is the owner of the BLUE CROSS and BLUE CROSS Design service marks WHEREAS, the Plan and the Controlled Affiliate desire that the latter be entitled to use the BLUE CROSS and BLUE CROSS Design service marks NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements hereinafter set forth and for other good and valuable consideration, 1. GRANT OF LICENSE Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, BCBSA hereby grants to the Controlled Affiliate the exclusive right to use the licensed Marks (Includes revisions adopted by Member Plans through their November 21, 2019 meeting) CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE AGREEMENT APPLICABLE TO LIFE INSURANCE COMPANIES Amended as of September 19, 2014 EXHIBIT 1A Affiliate may use the Licensed Marks and Name in its legal and trade name according to the terms of such license agreement. and further agrees to be bound by the conditions regarding quality control shown in Exhibit A as it may be amended by BCBSA from time-to-time. method of Controlled Affiliate's rendering of service and use of the Licensed Marks and Name. and BCBSA demonstrating Controlled Affiliate's compliance with the requirements of this Agreement including but not limited to the quality control provisions of Exhibit A. control of a Plan or Plans. Absent written approval by BCBSA of an alternative method of control, bona fide control shall mean the legal authority, directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate's governing body having not less than 51% voting control thereof (b) to exercise operational control with respect to the governance thereof and (c) to prevent any change in its articles of incorporation, bylaws or other governing documents deemed inappropriate. In addition, a Plan or Plans shall own at least 51% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. If the Controlled Affiliate is a mutual company, the Plan or its designee(s) shall have and maintain, in lieu of the requirements of items (a) and (c) above, proxies representing 51% of the votes at any meeting of the policyholders and shall demonstrate that there is no reason to believe this such proxies shall be revoked by sufficient policyholders to reduce such percentage below 51%. BCBSA shall specify to protect the Licensed Marks, and shall comply with such rules (applicable to all Controlled Affiliates licensed to use the Marks) relative to service mark use, as are issued from licensed services in the Service Area of the Plan shall be rendered under the Licensed Marks. Controlled Affiliate recognizes and agrees that all use of the Licensed Marks by Controlled Affiliate shall inure to the benefit of BCBSA. 2. QUALITY CONTROL A. Controlled Affiliate agrees to use the Licensed Marks and Name only in relation to the sale, marketing and rendering of authorized products B. Controlled Affiliate agrees that Plan and or BCBSA may, from time-to-time, upon reasonable notice, review and inspect the manner and C. Controlled Affiliate agrees that it will provide on an annual basis (or more often if reasonably required by Plan or by BCBSA) a report to Plan D. As used herein, a Controlled Affiliate is defined as an entity organized and operated in such a manner that it is subject to the bona fide 3. SERVICE MARK USE Controlled Affiliate shall at all times make proper service mark use of the Licensed Marks, including but not limited to use of such symbols or words as time-to-time by BCBSA. If there is any public reference to the affiliation between the Plan and the Controlled Affiliate, all of the Controlled Affiliate's Amended as of June 12, 2003 relation to the Licensed Marks. Controlled Affiliate shall not be entitled to require Plan or BCBSA to take any actions or institute any proceedings to prevent infringement, unfair competition or passing off by third parties. Controlled Affiliate agrees to render to Plan and BCBSA, free of charge, all reasonable assistance in connection with any matter pertaining to the protection of the Licensed Marks by BCBSA. costs of every kind, nature and description which may arise as a result of Controlled Affiliate's rendering of health care services under the Licensed Marks. year periods upon evidence satisfactory to the Plan and BCBSA that Controlled Affiliate meets the then applicable quality control standards, unless one of the parties hereto notifies the other party of the termination hereof at least sixty (60) days prior to expiration of any license period. opportunity to cure and shall not effect such a cure within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice of the intent to terminate (or commence a cure within such thirty day period and continue diligent efforts to complete the cure if such curing cannot reasonably be completed within such thirty day period). By way of example and not for purposes of limitation, Controlled Affiliate's failure to abide by the quality control provisions of Paragraph 2, above, shall be considered a proper ground for cancellation of this Agreement. event that: cure, with the remaining quality control provisions of Exhibit A, as it may be amended from time-to-time or (60) days in arrears to BCBSA. Marks including any use in its trade name. the decision of BCBSA shall control, subject to provisions for mediation or mandatory dispute resolution in effect between the parties. 4. SUBLICENSING AND ASSIGNMENT Controlled Affiliate shall not sublicense, transfer, hypothecate, sell, encumber or mortgage, by operation of law or otherwise, the rights granted hereunder and any such act shall be voidable at the option of Plan or BCBSA. This Agreement and all rights and duties hereunder are personal to Controlled Affiliate. 5. INFRINGEMENTS Controlled Affiliate shall promptly notify Plan and BCBSA of any suspected acts of infringement, unfair competition or passing off which may occur in 6. LIABILITY INDEMNIFICATION Controlled Affiliate hereby agrees to save, defend, indemnify and hold Plan and BCBSA harmless from and against all claims, damages, liabilities and 7. LICENSE TERM The license granted by this Agreement shall remain in effect for a period of one (1) year and shall be automatically extended for additional one (1) This Agreement may be terminated by the Plan or by BCBSA for cause at any time provided that Controlled Affiliate has been given a reasonable This Agreement and all of Controlled Affiliate's rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by any party or entity in the A. Controlled Affiliate shall no longer comply with Standard No. 1 (Organization and Governance) of Exhibit A or, following an opportunity to B. Plan ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Marks or C. Appropriate dues for Controlled Affiliate pursuant to item 8 hereof, which are the royalties for this License Agreement are more than sixty Upon termination of this Agreement for cause or otherwise, Controlled Affiliate agrees that it shall immediately discontinue all use of the Licensed In the event of any disagreement between Plan and BCBSA as to whether grounds exist for termination or as to any other term or condition hereof, Cross and Blue Shield Association and provide instruction on how the customer can contact the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association or a designated licensee to obtain further information on securing coverage. The written notification required by this paragraph shall be in writing and in a form approved by the Association. The Association shall have the right to audit the terminated entity's books and records to verify compliance with this paragraph. the event that any License period is greater or less than one (1) year, any amounts due shall be prorated. Royalties under this formula will be calculated, billed and paid in arrears. Controlled Affiliate shall pay such dues directly. Controlled Affiliate or between either and BCBSA. and or the Blue Shield License Agreement, and in all votes of the Plans under this Agreement the Plans shall vote together. For weighted votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have a number of votes equal to the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Cross Plan plus the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Shield Plan. For all other votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have one vote. For all questions requiring an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote of the Plans, the requirement shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless the greater of: (i) 6 52 or more of the Plans (rounded to the nearest whole number, with 0.5 or multiples thereof being rounded to the next higher whole number) fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question or (ii) three (3) of the Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, if there are thirty-nine Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. last known address of each other party, marked respectively to the attention of its President and, if any, its General Counsel. Upon termination of this Agreement, Licensed Controlled Affiliate shall immediately notify all of its customers that it is no longer a licensee of the Blue Controlled Affiliate will pay to BCBSA a fee for this license in accordance with the following formula: An annual fee of five thousand dollars ( 5,000) per license, plus .05% of gross revenue per year from branded group products, plus .5% of gross revenue per year from branded individual products plus .14% of gross revenue per year from branded individual annuity products. The foregoing percentages shall be reduced by one-half where both a BLUE CROSS and BLUE SHIELD license are issued to the same entity. In Plan will promptly and timely transmit to BCBSA all dues owed by Controlled Affiliate as determined by the above formula and if Plan shall fail to do so, 9. JOINT VENTURE Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as creating a joint venture, partnership, agency or employment relationship between Plan and 9A. VOTING For all provisions of this Agreement referring to voting, the term Plans shall mean all entities licensed under the Blue Cross License Agreement (39) Plans, the requirement of an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless four (4) or more 10. NOTICES AND CORRESPONDENCE Notices regarding the subject matter of this Agreement or breach or termination thereof shall be in writing and shall be addressed in duplicate to the Amended as of November 20, 1997 a writing executed by all parties. the parties hereunder and the court may substitute a lawful term or condition for any unlawful term or condition so long as the effect of such substitution is to provide the parties with the benefits of this Agreement. covenants or conditions of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach or default in performance of said terms, covenants or conditions. 11. COMPLETE AGREEMENT This Agreement contains the complete understandings of the parties in relation to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may only be amended by 12. SEVERABILITY If any term of this Agreement is held to be unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction, such finding shall in no way effect the remaining obligations of 13. NONWAIVER No waiver by BCBSA of any breach or default in performance on the part of the Controlled Affiliate or any other licensee of any of the terms, 14. GOVERNING LAW This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of Illinois. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this License Agreement to be executed, effective as of the date of last signature written below. BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION Amended as of November 20, 1997 Amended as of June 16, 2005 and are subject to change from time-to-time upon the affirmative vote of three- fourths (3 4) of the Plans and three-fourths (3 4) of the total weighted vote of all Plans. Each Licensed Plan is required to use a standard controlled affiliate license form provided by BCBSA and to cooperate fully in assuring that the licensed Life Insurance Company maintains compliance with the license standards. Licensed Plan to the extent and the manner authorized under the Controlled Affiliate License applicable to Life Insurance Companies and the principal license to the Plan. than 51% of the voting control of the LIC and 2) the legal ability to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the LIC with which it does not concur and 3) operational control of the LIC. representing at least 51% of the votes at any policyholder meeting and shall demonstrate that there is no reason to believe such proxies shall be revoked by sufficient policyholders to reduce such percentage below 51%. each state in which the LIC does business. Controlled Affiliate: EXHIBIT A CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE STANDARDS LIFE INSURANCE COMPANIES Page 1 of 2 The standards for licensing Life Insurance Companies (Life and Health Insurance companies, as defined by state statute) are established by BCBSA An organization meeting the following standards shall be eligible for a license to use the Licensed Marks within the service area of its sponsoring Standard 1 - Organization and Governance The LIC shall be organized and operated in such a manner that it is controlled by a licensed Plan or Plans which have, directly or indirectly: 1) not less If the LIC is a mutual company, the Plan or its designee(s) shall have and maintain, in lieu of the requirements of items 1 and 2 above, proxies Standard 2 - State Licensure The LIC must maintain unimpaired licensure or certificate of authority to operate under applicable state laws as a life and health insurance company in may be required in order to establish compliance with the license agreement. The LIC and its sponsoring licensed Plan(s) shall permit BCBSA to examine the affairs of the LIC and shall agree that BCBSA's board may submit a written report to the chief executive officer(s) and the board(s) of directors of the sponsoring Plan(s). legal action between or among another licensed controlled affiliate, a licensed Plan or BCBSA. administration of the Affiliate License Performance Response Process Protocol (ALPRPP) and in addressing LIC compliance problems identified thereunder. EXHIBIT A CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE STANDARDS LIFE INSURANCE COMPANIES Page 2 of 2 Standard 3 - Records and Examination The LIC and its sponsoring licensed Plan(s) shall maintain and furnish, on a timely and accurate basis, such records and reports regarding the LIC as Standard 4 - Mediation The LIC and its sponsoring Plan(s) shall agree to use the then-current BCBSA mediation and mandatory dispute resolution processes, in lieu of a Standard 5 - Financial Responsibility The LIC shall maintain adequate financial resources to protect its customers and meet its business obligations. Standard 6 - Cooperation with Affiliate License Performance Response Process Protocol The LIC and its Sponsoring Plan(s) shall cooperate with BCBSA s Board of Directors and its Brand Enhancement & Protection Committee in the company offering life and disability insurance products owned and controlled by , , in connection with life and disability insurance products in some or all of such Sponsoring Plans Service Areas and in the Service Areas of other Regular Member Plans, as defined in the BCBSA By-laws, ( Blue Plans ) consistent with the terms of this Agreement. the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows: use the Licensed Marks in connection with and only in connection with the following life and disability insurance products authorized by state law: (1) Group: Term Life, Long Term Disability, Whole Life, Benefit Life, Universal Life (2) BCBSA in writing ( Licensed Products ) in the Service Areas served by the Sponsoring Plans or in the Service Area or Areas of one or more other licensed Blue Plans, provided that such Blue Plans have consented to such use as authorized by this Agreement. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate may not use the Licensed Marks in its legal or trade name. Disability Controlled Affiliate may only use those of the Licensed Marks in the Service Area of a Sponsoring Plan or other consenting Blue Plan as described below that such Plan is authorized to use as a Blue Plan pursuant to its separate license agreements with BCBSA. Plan that is not a signatory to this Agreement only after such Sponsoring Plan(s) or non-signatory Blue Plan consents to such use by executing a written consent in substantially the same form as the Consent Agreement attached as Exhibit B. Area of Sponsoring Plan or consenting Blue Plan (hereinafter, such consenting Sponsoring Plan or consenting Blue Plan collectively referred to Consenting Plan(s) ) must clearly identify the Consenting Plan (for example, a statement on such materials that reads This product is offered with the cooperation of Blue Cross and or Blue Shield of [Geography] ) its Service Area, consent obtained under this Agreement may be limited to one or more of such specific geographic areas as specified by the Consenting Plan in its signed Consent Agreement. For purposes of this entire Agreement, all references to the Service Area of a Sponsoring Plan, Blue Plan or Consenting Plan may include the entire Service Area or a distinct geographic area within such Service Area as specified in this Section 1 D (2) This Agreement by and among Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ("BCBSA") and , ( Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate ) which is a ( individually, Sponsoring Plan and when referred to collectively, Sponsoring Plans ). Whereas, BCBSA is the owner of the BLUE CROSS and BLUE SHIELD word and design service marks and any derivatives thereof ( Licensed Whereas, each Sponsoring Plan is licensed separately by BCBSA to use one or more of the Licensed Marks in a particular Service Area Whereas, the Sponsoring Plans and the Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate desire that the latter be entitled to use the appropriate Licensed Marks NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements hereinafter set forth and for other good and valuable consideration, 1. GRANT OF LICENSE A. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, BCBSA hereby grants to the Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate the limited right to Individual: Term Life, Whole Life, Dependent Life, Spouse Life (3) Other: Disability Income, Short Term Disability, Long Term Disability, Income Replacement and (4) such other life and disability products approved by B. Notwithstanding that the license granted to Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate is a license to use all of the Licensed Marks, Life and C. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate may use the Licensed Marks in the Service Areas of Sponsoring Plans or in the Service Area of a Blue D. The following provisions apply with respect to Consent Agreements once such agreements have been fully and properlyexecuted: (1) All sales, marketing and advertising materials developed by and proposed for use by Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate in the Service (2) To the extent the Consenting Plan has separate divisions or other Affiliates that use the Licensed Marks in distinct geographic areas within (3) Where BCBSA has licensed two or more Blue Plans to use the same Licensed Marks in the same Service Area, in addition to the CONTROLLED AFFILIATE TRADEMARK LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR LIFE AND DISABILTY INSURANCE PRODUCTS Exhibit 1A1 requirements set forth in Section D (1) above, the sales, marketing and advertising materials referenced in such section above must be communicated to the Consenting Plan s existing and prospective accounts through or with the approval of such Consenting Plan, and the personnel of such Consenting Plan must actively participate in all sales and marketing activities conducted by Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate in the same Service Area, including participating in meetings (whether in- person or via telephone, video or internet conference) with both existing and prospective accounts of the Consenting Plan been granted by BCBSA the license to use under its Blue Plan license and Disability Controlled Affiliate in that Service Area may only contain or reference the Blue Cross Marks and not the Blue Shield Marks). sole discretion to a phase out in writing, immediately (i) cease all use of the Licensed Marks, including in connection with any and all sales and marketing of the Licensed Products in the Service Area where consent has been terminated, and (ii) notify its customers that it is no longer a licensee and provide instruction on how the customer can contact BCBSA or a designated licensee to obtain further information on securing coverage. The notification required by this paragraph shall be in writing and in form approved by BCBSA. Licensed Products and further agrees to be bound by the conditions regarding quality control shown in Exhibit A and the Guidelines to Administer the Standards for Trademark License Agreement for Life and Disability Insurance Products attached thereto. and method of Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate's rendering of service and use of the Licensed Marks. to BCBSA demonstrating Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate's compliance with the requirements of this Agreement including but not limited to the quality control provisions of Exhibit A. owned and controlled by Sponsoring Plans. Absent written approval by BCBSA of an alternative method of control, control shall mean the legal authority, directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate's governing body having not less than 100% voting control thereof (b) to exercise operational control with respect to the governance thereof and (c) to prevent any change in its articles of (4) Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall be entitled to use in a Service Area only those Licensed Marks that the Consenting Plan has (5) agreements (for example, if a Consenting Plan is licensed to use only the Blue Cross Marks in its Service Area, the materials used by Life (6) If a Consent Agreement is terminated, Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall, unless BCBSA and the Consenting Plan agree in their 2. QUALITY CONTROL A. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate agrees to use the Licensed Marks only in relation to the sale, marketing and administration of the B. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate agrees that BCBSA may, from time-to-time, upon reasonable notice, review and inspect the manner C. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate agrees that it will provide on an annual basis (or more often if reasonably required by BCBSA) a report D. As used herein, a Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate is defined as: An entity organized and operated in such a manner that it is 100% profit Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate. Marks comply with the BCBSA Brand Regulations, as amended by BCBSA from time to time. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate recognizes and agrees that all use of the Licensed Marks by Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall inure to the benefit of BCBSA. Controlled Affiliate and shall not be assignable by any act of the Life and shall Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate mortgage or part with possession or control of this license or any right hereunder, and the Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall have no right to grant any sublicense to use the Licensed Marks. occur in relation to the Licensed Marks. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall not be entitled to require BCBSA to take any actions or institute any proceedings to prevent infringement, unfair competition or passing off by third parties. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate agrees to render to BCBSA, free of charge, all reasonable assistance in connection with any matter pertaining to the protection of the Licensed Marks by BCBSA. BCBSA shall have sole control of the defense and resolution of any claim of infringement brought or threatened by others. liabilities and costs of every kind, nature and description which may arise as a result of Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate's conduct. one (1) year periods, unless either BCBSA or Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate notifies the other party in writing of the termination hereof at least sixty (60) days prior to expiration of any license period. reasonable opportunity to cure and shall not effect such a cure within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice of the intent to terminate (or commence a cure within such thirty day period and continue diligent efforts to complete the cure if such curing cannot reasonably be completed within such thirty day period). By way of example and not for purposes of limitation, Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate's failure to abide by the conditions regarding use of the Licensed Marks set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement or the quality control provisions of Section 2 (other than with respect to Section 2 D which is subject to immediate termination as stated in Section 7 C (1) below) shall be considered proper grounds for termination of this Agreement. any party or entity in the event that: incorporation, bylaws or other governing documents deemed inappropriate. In addition, a Sponsoring Plan or Plans shall own at least 100% of any for 3. SERVICE MARK USE Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall at all times make proper service mark use of the Licensed Marks and shall ensure all uses of the Licensed 4. SUBLICENSING AND ASSIGNMENT The license hereby granted to Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate to use the Licensed Marks is and shall be personal to Life and Disability Disability Controlled Affiliate, directly or indirectly, without the written consent of BCBSA. Said license shall not be assignable by operation of law, nor 5. INFRINGEMENTS Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall promptly notify BCBSA of any suspected acts of infringement, unfair competition or passing off which may 6. LIABILITY INDEMNIFICATION Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate hereby agrees to save, defend, indemnify and hold BCBSA harmless from and against all claims, damages, 7. LICENSE TERM A. The license granted by this Agreement shall remain in effect for a period of one (1) year and shall be automatically extended for additional B. This Agreement may be terminated by BCBSA for cause at any time provided that Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate has been given a C. This Agreement and all of Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate's rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by the Licensed Marks. other term or condition hereof, the decision of BCBSA shall control, subject to provisions for mediation or mandatory dispute resolution in effect between the parties. licensee of BCBSA and provide instruction on how the customer can contact BCBSA or a designated licensee to obtain further information on securing coverage. The notification required by this paragraph shall be in writing and in a form approved by BCBSA. BCBSA shall have the right to audit the terminated entity's books and records to verify compliance with this paragraph. calculated, billed and paid in arrears. by the above formula. Sponsoring Plan and Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate or between among them and or BCBSA. and or the Blue Shield License Agreement, and in all votes of the Plans under this Agreement the Plans shall vote together. For weighted votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have a number of votes equal to the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Cross Plan plus the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Shield Plan. For all other votes of the Plans, the (1) Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall no longer comply with Section 2 D (or Standard No. 1 (Organization and Governance) of Exhibit (2) Any Sponsoring Plan ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Marks or (3) Appropriate fees for Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate pursuant to Section 8 of this Agreement are more than sixty (60) days in arrears Upon termination of this Agreement for cause or otherwise, Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate agrees that it shall immediately discontinue all use of In the event of any disagreement between Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate and BCBSA as to whether grounds exist for termination or as to any Upon termination of this Agreement, Licensed Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall immediately notify all of its customers that it is no longer a 8. ROYALTIES Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate will pay to BCBSA a fee for this license in accordance with the following formula: An annual fee of five thousand dollars ( 5,000) per license, plus .05% of gross revenue per year from group products sold under the Licensed Marks, plus .5% of gross revenue per year from individual products sold under the Licensed Marks In the event that any license period is greater or less than one (1) year, any amounts due shall be prorated. Royalties under this formula will be Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate will promptly and timely transmit to BCBSA all fees owed by Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate as determined 9. JOINT VENTURE Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as creating a joint venture, partnership, agency or employment relationship between any For all provisions of this Agreement referring to voting, the term Plans shall mean all entities licensed under the Blue Cross License Agreement with a lesser weighted vote unless the greater of: (i) 6 52 or more of the Plans (rounded to the nearest whole number, with 0.5 or multiples thereof being rounded to the next higher whole number) fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question or (ii) three (3) of the Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, if there are thirty-nine Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. last known address of each other party, marked respectively to the attention of its President and, if any, its General Counsel. current weighted vote of all the Blue Plans as officially recorded by the BCBSA Corporate Secretary. Upon such adoption by the Blue Plans, this Agreement and all other Trademark License Agreements for Life and Disability Insurance Products then in effect shall simultaneously be amended. the parties hereunder and the court may substitute a lawful term or condition for any unlawful term or condition so long as the effect of such substitution is to provide the parties with the benefits of this Agreement. the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach or default in performance of said terms, covenants or conditions. Plan shall have one vote. For all questions requiring an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote of the Plans, the requirement shall be deemed satisfied (39) Plans, the requirement of an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless four (4) or more 11. NOTICES AND CORRESPONDENCE Notices regarding the subject matter of this Agreement or breach or termination thereof shall be in writing and shall be addressed in duplicate to the 12. COMPLETE AGREEMENT This Agreement contains the complete understandings of the parties in relation to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may only be amended (a) a writing signed by all parties or (b) a writing approved by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Blue Plans and three-fourths of the total then 13. SEVERABILITY If any term of this Agreement is held to be unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction, such finding shall in no way affect the remaining obligations of 14. NONWAIVER No waiver by BCBSA of any breach or default in performance on the part of the Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate or any other licensee of any of 15. GOVERNING LAW This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of Illinois. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this License Agreement to be executed, effective as of the date of last signature written below. BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION shall be organized and operated in such a manner that it is an entity organized and operated in such a manner that it is 100% owned and controlled by Sponsoring Plans. Absent written approval by BCBSA of an alternative method of control, control shall mean the legal authority, directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate's governing body having not less than 100% voting control thereof (b) to exercise operational control with respect to the governance thereof and (c) to prevent any change in its articles of incorporation, bylaws or other governing documents deemed inappropriate. In addition, a Sponsoring Plan or Plans shall own at least 100% of any for profit Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate. which the licensee does business. to establish compliance with the Agreement. The licensee shall permit BCBSA to examine the affairs of the licensee and shall agree that BCBSA's board may submit a written report to the chief executive officer(s) and the board(s) of directors of the Sponsoring Plan(s). Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate: Sponsoring Plan: Name: Sponsoring Plan: Name: [Add other Sponsoring Plans as necessary] LICENSE STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO TRADEMARK LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR LIFE AND DISABILITY INSURANCE PRODUCTS Page 1 of 2 Standard 1 - Organization and Governance Any Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate licensed under the Trademark License Agreement for Life and Disability Insurance Products ( licensee ) Standard 2 - State Licensure The licensee must maintain unimpaired licensure or certificate of authority to operate under applicable state laws as a life company in each state in Standard 3 - Records and Examination The licensee shall maintain and furnish, on a timely and accurate basis, such records and reports regarding the licensee as may be required in order Standard 4 - Mediation resolution processes, in lieu of a legal action between or among another licensed Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate, a Sponsoring Plan and or consenting Blue Plan or BCBSA. addressing licensee compliance problems that may be identified in connection with the operation or administration of the Trademark License Agreement for Life and Disability Insurance Products. The licensee, its Sponsoring Plan(s) and all consenting Blue Plans shall agree to use the then-current BCBSA mediation and mandatory dispute LICENSE STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO TRADEMARK LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR LIFE AND DISABILITY INSURANCE PRODUCTS Page 2 of 2 Standard 5 - Financial Responsibility The licensee shall maintain adequate financial resources to protect its customers and meet its business obligations. Standard 6 - Cooperation with BCBSA Governance The licensee shall cooperate with BCBSA s Board of Directors and its Brand Enhancement & Protection Committee in the administration of and in the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA ) and shall be deemed effective on ( Effective Date ). ( Products ) as defined and authorized in the Trademark License Agreement for Life and Disability Insurance Products ( Life and Disability License Agreement ) Blue Plan has consented to sale of the Products by Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate and Area consistent with the terms of the Life and Disability License Agreement and this Consent Agreement. BCBSA agree as follows: licensed to Blue Plan in such Service Area subject to the terms of this Consent Agreement, the Life and Disability License Agreement and Blue Plan s license agreement(s) with BCBSA. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate s rights under the Brands to offer the Products under the Brands are limited to offering the Products only under the Brand(s) licensed to the consenting Blue Plan. identifies the relationship between it and Blue Plan for the sales, marketing and customer service for the Products. The term of the sales and marketing agreement shall be the same as the term of this Consent Agreement. Blue Plan s Service Area must clearly identify the consenting Blue Plan (for example, a statement on such materials that reads This product is offered with the cooperation of Blue Cross and or Blue Shield of [Geography] ) by Blue Plan: the consenting Blue Plan in the following manner: (a) the sales, marketing and advertising materials must be communicated to the consenting Blue Plan s existing and prospective accounts through or with the approval of such Blue Plan, and (b) the personnel of such Blue Plan must actively participate in all sales and marketing activities conducted by Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate in the same Service Area, including participating in meetings (whether in-person or via telephone, video or internet conference) with both existing and prospective accounts of the consenting Blue Plan been granted by BCBSA the license to use under its license agreement (for example, if a consenting Blue Plan is licensed to use only the Blue Cross Marks in its Service Area, the materials used by Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate in that Service Area may only contain or reference the Blue Cross Marks and not the Blue Shield Marks). CONSENT AGREEMENT This Consent Agreement is made and entered into by and among the undersigned Blue Plan, and ( Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate ), and Whereas, BCBSA owns the Blue Cross and Blue Shield word and design service marks and any derivative mark thereof (the Brands ) Whereas, the undersigned Blue Plan is licensed to use one or more of the Brands within a specific geographic area ( Service Area ) Whereas Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate is licensed by BCBSA to use one or more of the Brands to offer life and disability insurance products Whereas neither the Blue Plan nor its affiliates offer the Products under any of the Brands in such Blue Plan s Service Area or portion thereof where Whereas BCBSA and the undersigned Blue Plan desire to consent to Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate s use of the Brands in Blue Plan s Service Now, therefore, in consideration of the obligations and conditions stated in this Agreement, Blue Plan, Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate and 1. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate may market, sell, administer and underwrite the Products in Blue Plan s Service Area under the Brands 2. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall work with the undersigned Blue Plan to develop a written sales and marketing agreement that 3. All sales, marketing and advertising materials developed by and proposed for use by Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate in a consenting 4. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate may use the Brands to sell the Products in the following Service Area or portion thereof as designated 5. If two or more Blue Plans to use the same Licensed Marks in the same Service Area, Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall work with 6. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall be entitled to use in a Service Area only those Licensed Marks that the consenting Blue Plan has sole discretion to a phase out in writing, immediately (i) cease all use of the Licensed Marks, including in connection with any and all sales and marketing of the Licensed Products in the Service Area where consent has been terminated, and (ii) notify its customers that it is no longer a licensee of BCBSA and provide instruction on how the customer can contact BCBSA or a designated licensee to obtain further information on securing coverage. The notification required by this paragraph shall be in writing and in form approved by BCBSA. Affiliate provides the other party with written notice of its desire not to renew this Consent Agreement at least 60 days prior to expiration of the term or any extended term or unless terminated as provided in Paragraph 9 below, this Consent Agreement shall automatically renew for subsequent one year periods. agreement. and Disability License Agreement terminates for any reason. 7. If this Consent Agreement is terminated, Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall, unless each BCBSA and the Blue Plan agree in their 8. The term of this Consent Agreement shall be one year from the Effective Date. Unless either Blue Plan or Life and Disability Controlled 9. This Consent Agreement may be terminated as follows: A. Upon mutual written consent of Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate and Blue Plan B. By Blue Plan or Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate upon 60 days advance written notice to the non-terminating party and BCBSA or C. By Blue Plan immediately if Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate does not comply with this Consent Agreement or the sales protocol 10. This Consent Agreement shall automatically terminate if Blue Plan s primary licensee agreement terminates for any reason or if the Life Agreed and Accepted by: [Blue Plan]: Title: BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION: LIFE AND DISABILITY CONTROLLED AFFILIATE: Services ( CMS ) to offer Medicare Advantage PPO products in geographic regions designated by CMS (hereafter regional MAPPO products ). marks (collectively the "Licensed Marks") as service marks and be entitled to use the term BLUE CROSS in a trade name ("Licensed Name") to offer regional MAPPO products in a region that includes the Service Areas, or portions thereof, of more than one Controlling Plan the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows: connection with, and only in connection with the sale, marketing and administration of regional MAPPO products and related services. Affiliate shall not do business outside the Region under any name or mark except business conducted in the Service Area of a Controlling Plan provided that Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed by BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Name in connection with health care plans and related services in the Service Area of such Controlling Plan and (iii) Controlled Affiliate shall not use the Licensed Marks and Name, or any derivative thereof, as part of any name or symbol used to identify itself in any securities market. Controlled Affiliate may use the Licensed Marks and Name in its Trade Name only with the prior, written, consent of BCBSA. CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE AGREEMENT APPLICABLE TO REGIONAL MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PPO PRODUCTS This Agreement by and among Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ("BCBSA") and ( Controlled Affiliate"), a Controlled Affiliate of the Blue Cross Plan(s), known as Party signatory hereto. ("Controlling Plans"), each of which is also a WHEREAS, BCBSA is the owner of the BLUE CROSS and BLUE CROSS Design service marks WHEREAS, under the Medicare Modernization Act, companies may apply to and be awarded a contract by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid WHEREAS, some of the CMS-designated regions include the Service Areas, or portions thereof, of more than one Plan. WHEREAS, the Controlling Plans and Controlled Affiliate desire that the latter be entitled to use the BLUE CROSS and BLUE CROSS Design service NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements hereinafter set forth and for other good and valuable consideration, 1. GRANT OF LICENSE Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, BCBSA hereby grants to Controlled Affiliate the right to use the Licensed Marks and Name in Marks and Name in its legal name on the following conditions: (i) the legal name must be approved in advance, in writing, by BCBSA (ii) Controlled 2. QUALITY CONTROL (Adopted by Member Plans at their November 21, 2019 meeting) BLUE CROSS This grant of rights is non-exclusive and is limited to the following states: (the Region ). Controlled Affiliate may use the Licensed Exhibit 1B bound by the conditions regarding quality control shown in attached Exhibit A as they may be amended by BCBSA from time-to-time. a report or reports to the Controlling Plans and BCBSA demonstrating Controlled Affiliate's compliance with the requirements of this Agreement including but not limited to the quality control provisions of this paragraph and the attached Exhibit A. manner and method of Controlled Affiliate's rendering of service and use of the Licensed Marks and Name. requirements: which the Controlling Plans do not concur written approval by each of the Controlling Plans before the Controlled Affiliate can: Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) Controlled Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) A. Controlled Affiliate agrees to use the Licensed Marks and Name only in connection with the licensed services and further agrees to be B. Controlled Affiliate agrees to comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws. C. Controlled Affiliate agrees that it will provide on an annual basis (or more often if reasonably required by the Controlling Plans or by BCBSA) D. Controlled Affiliate agrees that the Controlling Plans and or BCBSA may, from time-to-time, upon reasonable notice, review and inspect the E. As used herein, a Controlled Affiliate is defined as an entity organized and operated in such a manner, that it meets the following (1) Controlled Affiliate is owned or controlled by two or more Controlling Plans (2) Each Controlling Plan is authorized pursuant to a separate Blue Cross License Agreement to use the Licensed Marks in a geographic area Region and every geographic area in the Region is so licensed to at least one of the Controlling Plans and (3) The Controlling Plans must have the legal authority directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body having not less than 100% voting control thereof (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate and Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in (a) through (c) hereof, the Controlled Affiliate s establishing or governing documents must also require (i) change its legal and or trade names (ii) change the geographic area in which it operates (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the Controlled (iii) change any of the type(s) of businesses in which it engages (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the (iv) take any action that any Controlling Plan or BCBSA reasonably believes will adversely affect the Licensed Marks and Name. In addition, the Controlling Plans directly or indirectly through wholly owned subsidiaries shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. to strengthening the Licensed Marks and Name. The Controlled Affiliate further recognizes that its actions within the Region may affect the value of the Licensed Marks and Name nationwide. symbols or words as BCBSA shall specify to protect the Licensed Marks and Name and shall comply with such rules (generally applicable to Controlled Affiliates licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name) relative to service mark use, as are issued from time-to-time by BCBSA. Controlled Affiliate recognizes and agrees that all use of the Licensed Marks and Name by Controlled Affiliate shall inure to the benefit of BCBSA. the Region the goodwill associated therewith to another mark or name, nor may Controlled Affiliate engage in activity that may dilute or tarnish the unique value of the Licensed Marks and Name. marketing and administration of regional MAPPO products and related services. rights granted hereunder and any such act shall be voidable at the sole option of any Controlling Plan or BCBSA. This Agreement and all rights and duties hereunder are personal to Controlled Affiliate. 3. SERVICE MARK USE A. Controlled Affiliate recognizes the importance of a comprehensive national network of independent BCBSA licensees which are committed B. Controlled Affiliate shall at all times make proper service mark use of the Licensed Marks and Name, including but not limited to use of such C. Controlled Affiliate may not directly or indirectly use the Licensed Marks and Name in a manner that transfers or is intended to transfer in D. Controlled Affiliate shall use its best efforts to promote and build the value of the Licensed Marks and Name in connection with the sale, 4. SUBLICENSING AND ASSIGNMENT Controlled Affiliate shall not, directly or indirectly, sublicense, transfer, hypothecate, sell, encumber or mortgage, by operation of law or otherwise, the infringement, unfair competition or passing off that may occur in relation to the Licensed Marks and Name. Controlled Affiliate shall not be entitled to require the Controlling Plans or BCBSA to take any actions or institute any proceedings to prevent infringement, unfair competition or passing off by third parties. Controlled Affiliate agrees to render to the Controlling Plans and BCBSA, without charge, all reasonable assistance in connection with any matter pertaining to the protection of the Licensed Marks and Name by BCBSA. damages, liabilities and costs of every kind, nature and description (except those arising solely as a result of BCBSA's negligence) that may arise as a result of or related to Controlled Affiliate's rendering of services under the Licensed Marks and Name. automatically extended for additional one (1) year periods unless terminated pursuant to the provisions herein. in the event that: (i) any one of the Controlling Plans ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Marks and Name or (ii) pursuant to Paragraph 15(a)(x) of the Blue Cross License Agreement any one of the Controlling Plans ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Names and Marks in the Region. Controlling Plans or the affirmative vote of the majority of the Board of Directors of BCBSA present and voting at a special meeting expressly called by BCBSA for the purpose on ten (10) days written notice to the Controlling Plans advising of the specific matters at issue and granting the Controlling Plans an opportunity to be heard and to present their response to the Board for: (1) failure to comply with any applicable minimum capital or liquidity requirement under the quality control standards of this insolvency or instituted against the Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business or seeking the declaration or establishment of a trust for any of its property or business, unless this Controlled Affiliate License Agreement has been earlier terminated under paragraph 7(E) or (6) such other reason as is determined in good faith immediately and irreparably to threaten the integrity and reputation of BCBSA, the Plans (including the Controlling Plans), any other licensee including Controlled Affiliate and or the Licensed Marks and Name. Agreement and not cure such failure within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice thereof (or commence a cure within such thirty day period and continue diligent efforts to complete the cure if such curing cannot reasonably be completed within such thirty day period) BCBSA or the Controlling Plans shall have the right to issue a notice that the Controlled Affiliate is in a state of noncompliance. If a state of noncompliance as aforesaid is undisputed by the Controlled Affiliate or is found to exist by a mandatory dispute resolution panel and is uncured as provided above, BCBSA shall have the right to seek judicial enforcement of the Agreement or to issue a notice of termination thereof. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, any disputes as to the termination of this License pursuant to Paragraphs 7(B), 7(C) or 7(E) of this Agreement shall not be subject to mediation and mandatory dispute resolution. All other disputes between or among BCBSA, any of the Controlling Plans and or Controlled Affiliate shall be submitted promptly to mediation and mandatory dispute resolution. The mandatory dispute resolution panel shall have authority to issue orders for specific performance and assess monetary penalties. Except, however, as provided in Paragraphs 7(B) and 7(E) of this Agreement, this license to use the Licensed Marks and Name may not be finally terminated for any reason without the affirmative vote of a majority of the present and voting members of the Board of Directors of BCBSA. 5. INFRINGEMENT Controlled Affiliate shall promptly notify the Controlling Plans and the Controlling Plans shall promptly notify BCBSA of any suspected acts of 6. LIABILITY INDEMNIFICATION Controlled Affiliate and the Controlling Plans hereby agree to save, defend, indemnify and hold BCBSA harmless from and against all claims, 7. LICENSE TERM A. Except as otherwise provided herein, the license granted by this Agreement shall remain in effect for a period of one (1) year and shall be B. This Agreement and all of Controlled Affiliate's rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by any party or entity C. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, this license to use the Licensed Marks and Name may be forthwith terminated by the Agreement or (2) failure to comply with the "Organization and Governance" quality control standard of this Agreement or (3) impending financial (4) failure to comply with any of the applicable requirements of Standards 2, 3, 4, or 5 of attached Exhibit A or (5) the pendency of any action D. Except as otherwise provided in Paragraphs 7(B), 7(C) or 7(E) herein, should Controlled Affiliate fail to comply with the provisions of this E. This Agreement and all of Controlled Affiliate's rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by any party or entity in the event that: License Agreement, are more than sixty (60) days in arrears to BCBSA or arrangement with creditors or other relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or any other law governing insolvency or debtor relief, or (ii) an involuntary petition or proceeding shall be filed against Controlled Affiliate seeking bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement with creditors or other relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or any other law governing insolvency or debtor relief and such petition or proceeding is consented to or acquiesced in by Controlled Affiliate or is not dismissed within sixty (60) days of the date upon which the petition or other document commencing the proceeding is served upon the Controlled Affiliate, or (iii) an order for relief is entered against Controlled Affiliate in any case under the bankruptcy laws of the United States, or Controlled Affiliate is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent as those terms are defined in the Uniform Commercial Code as enacted in the State of Illinois by any court of competent jurisdiction, or (iv) Controlled Affiliate makes a general assignment of its assets for the benefit of creditors, or (v) any government or any government official, office, agency, branch, or unit assumes control of Controlled Affiliate or delinquency proceedings (voluntary or involuntary) are instituted, or (vi) an action is brought by Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking the appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business, or (vii) an action is instituted by any governmental entity or officer against Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking the appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business and such action is consented to or acquiesced in by Controlled Affiliate or is not dismissed within one hundred thirty (130) days of the date upon which the pleading or other document commencing the action is served upon the Controlled Affiliate, provided that if the action is stayed or its prosecution is enjoined, the one hundred thirty (130) day period is tolled for the duration of the stay or injunction, and provided further, that the Association s Board of Directors may toll or extend the 130 day period at any time prior to its expiration, or (viii) a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of Controlled Affiliate's property or business is appointed or the Controlled Affiliate is ordered dissolved or liquidated. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, a declaration or a request for declaration of the existence of a trust over any of the Controlled Affiliate s property or business shall not in itself be deemed to constitute or seek appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for purposes of subparagraphs 7(E)(3)(vii) and Licensed Marks and Name, including any use in its trade name, except to the extent that it continues to be authorized to use the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan. (1) Controlled Affiliate shall no longer comply with item 2(E) above (2) Appropriate dues, royalties and other payments for Controlled Affiliate pursuant to paragraph 9 hereof, which are the royalties for this (3) Any of the following events occur: (i) a voluntary petition shall be filed by Controlled Affiliate seeking bankruptcy, reorganization, (viii) of this Agreement. F. Upon termination of this Agreement for cause or otherwise, Controlled Affiliate agrees that it shall immediately discontinue all use of the under the Licensed Marks pursuant to this Agreement that it is no longer a licensee of BCBSA and, if directed by the Association s Board of Directors, shall provide instruction on how the customer can contact BCBSA or a designated licensee to obtain further information on securing coverage. The notification required by this paragraph shall be in writing and in a form approved by BCBSA. The BCBSA shall have the right to audit the terminated entity's books and records to verify compliance with this paragraph. not apply and the following provisions shall apply, except that, in the event that Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed by BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks in the Service Area of a Controlling Plan and termination of this Agreement is due to a partial termination of such Controlling Plan s license pursuant to Paragraph 15(a)(x)(ii) of the Blue Cross License Agreement, the notices, national account listing, payment, and audit right listed below shall be applicable solely with respect to the Region and the geographic area for which the Controlling Plan s license to use the Licensed Names and Marks is terminated: Marks and Name. consequences thereof, and instructions for obtaining alternate products or services licensed by BCBSA. This notice shall be mailed within 15 days after termination. identifying the national account and the Controlled Affiliate s role therein. Controlling Plans, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans shall be jointly liable for payment to BCBSA of an amount equal to 25 multiplied by the number of Licensed Enrollees of the Controlled Affiliate provided that if any Plan other than a Controlling Plan is permitted by BCBSA to use marks or names licensed by BCBSA in a geographic area in the Region, the payment for Licensed Enrollees in such geographic area shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of Licensed Enrollees of the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans, and Enrollees in such geographic area. Licensed Enrollee means each and every person and covered dependent who is enrolled as an individual or member of a group receiving products or services sold, marketed or administered under marks or names licensed by BCBSA as determined at the earlier of (i) the end of the last fiscal year of the terminated entity which ended prior to termination or (ii) the fiscal year which ended before any transactions causing the termination began. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount payable pursuant to this subparagraph H. (3) shall be due only to the extent that, in BCBSA s opinion, it does not cause the net worth of the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans or any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans to fall below 100% of the Health Risk-Based Capital formula, or its equivalent under any successor formula, as set forth in the applicable financial responsibility standards established by BCBSA (provided such equivalent is approved for purposes of this subparagraph by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three- fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans) measured as of the date of termination, and adjusted for the value of any transactions not made in the ordinary course of business. This payment shall not be due in connection with transactions exclusively by or among Plans (including the Controlling Plans) or their affiliates, including reorganizations, combinations or mergers, where the BCBSA Board of Directors determines that the license termination does not result in a material diminution in the number of Licensed Enrollees or the extent of their coverage. In the event that the Controlled Affiliate s license is reinstated by BCBSA or is deemed to have remained in effect without interruption by a court of competent jurisdiction, BCBSA shall reimburse the Controlled Affiliate (and or the Controlling Plans or their other Licensed Controlled Affiliates, as the case may be) for payments made under this subparagraph 7.H.(3) only to the extent that such payments exceed the amounts due to BCBSA pursuant to paragraph 7.K. and any costs associated with reestablishing the terminated Controlling Plan s Service Area or the Region, including any payments made by BCBSA to a Plan or Plans (including the other Controlling Plans), or their G. Upon termination of this Agreement, Controlled Affiliate shall immediately notify all of its customers to whom it provides products or services H. In the event this Agreement terminates pursuant to 7(B) hereof, upon termination of this Agreement the provisions of Paragraph 7(G) shall (1) The Controlled Affiliate shall send a notice through the U.S. mails, with first class postage affixed, to all individual and group customers, providers, brokers and agents of products or services sold, marketed, underwritten or administered by the Controlled Affiliate under the Licensed The form and content of the notice shall be specified by BCBSA and shall, at a minimum, notify the recipient of the termination of the license, the (2) The Controlled Affiliate shall deliver to BCBSA within five days of a request by BCBSA a listing of national accounts in which the Controlled Affiliate is involved (in a control, participating or servicing capacity), (3) Unless the cause of termination is an event respecting BCBSA stated in paragraph 15(a) or (b) of the Plan s license agreement with BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Name, the Controlled Affiliate, the any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans in such geographic area and the denominator of which is the total number of Licensed Licensed Controlled Affiliates, for purposes of replacing the Controlled Affiliate. paragraph 7.H. parties agree there is no adequate remedy at law and BCBSA is entitled to obtain specific performance. transaction which would result in a termination of this Agreement unless a Controlling Plan s license from BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Names has been terminated pursuant to 10(d) of such Controlling Plan s license agreement upon the required 6 month written notice. interruption by a court of competent jurisdiction, the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans shall be jointly liable for reimbursing BCBSA the reasonable costs incurred by BCBSA in connection with the termination and the reinstatement or court action, and any associated legal proceedings, including but not limited to: outside legal fees, consulting fees, public relations fees, advertising costs, and costs incurred to develop, lease or establish an interim provider network. Any amount due to BCBSA under this subparagraph may be waived in whole or in part by the BCBSA Board of Directors in its sole discretion. that use in any manner the Blue Cross and Blue Cross Marks and Name are subject to the Mediation and Mandatory Dispute Resolution process attached to and made a part of each Controlling Plan s License from BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Name as Exhibit 5 as amended from time-to-time, which documents are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth herein. Controlling Plans and Controlled Affiliate or between either and BCBSA. (4) BCBSA shall have the right to audit the books and records of the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans to verify compliance with this (5) As to a breach of 7.H.(1), (2), (3) or (4), the parties agree that the obligations are immediately enforceable in a court of competent jurisdiction. As to a breach of 7.H.(1), (2) or (4) by the Controlled Affiliate, the I. BCBSA shall be entitled to enjoin the Controlled Affiliate or any related party in a court of competent jurisdiction from entry into any J. BCBSA acknowledges that it is not the owner of assets of the Controlled Affiliate. K. In the event this Agreement terminates and is subsequently reinstated by BCBSA or is deemed to have remained in effect without 8. DISPUTE RESOLUTION The parties agree that any disputes between or among them or between or among any of them and one or more Plans or Controlled Affiliates of Plans 9. LICENSE FEE Controlled Affiliate will pay to BCBSA a fee for this License determined pursuant to the formula(s) set forth in Exhibit B. 10. JOINT VENTURE Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as creating a joint venture, partnership, agency or employment relationship between the 11. NOTICES AND CORRESPONDENCE Notices regarding the subject matter of this Agreement or breach or termination thereof shall be in writing and shall be addressed in duplicate to the the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans as officially recorded by the BCBSA Corporate Secretary. of the parties hereunder and the court may substitute a lawful term or condition for any unlawful term or condition so long as the effect of such substitution is to provide the parties with the benefits of this Agreement. conditions of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach or default in performance of said terms, covenants or conditions. and or the Blue Shield License Agreement, and in all votes of the Plans under this Agreement the Plans shall vote together. For weighted votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have a number of votes equal to the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Cross Plan plus the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Shield Plan. For all other votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have one vote. For all questions requiring an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote of the Plans, the requirement shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless the greater of: (i) 6 52 or more of the Plans (rounded to the nearest whole number, with fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, if there are thirty-nine (39) Plans, the requirement of an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless four (4) or more Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. known address of each other party, marked respectively to the attention of its President and, if any, its General Counsel. 12. COMPLETE AGREEMENT This Agreement contains the complete understandings of the parties in relation to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may only be amended by 13. SEVERABILITY If any term of this Agreement is held to be unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction, such findings shall in no way affect the remaining obligations 14. NONWAIVER No waiver by BCBSA of any breach or default in performance on the part of Controlled Affiliate or any other licensee of any of the terms, covenants or 14A. VOTING For all provisions of this Agreement referring to voting, the term Plans shall mean all entities licensed under the Blue Cross License Agreement 0.5 or multiples thereof being rounded to the next higher whole number) fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question or (ii) three (3) of the Plans 15. GOVERNING LAW This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of Illinois. 16. HEADINGS The headings inserted in this agreement are for convenience only and shall have no bearing on the interpretation hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this License Agreement to be executed and effective as of the date of last signature written below. Controlled Affiliate: Date: Controlling Plan: Controlling Plan: BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION Date: time-to-time upon the affirmative vote of three-fourths (3 4) of the Plans and three-fourths (3 4) of the total weighted vote. Each Controlling Plan is required to use a standard Controlled Affiliate license form provided by BCBSA and to cooperate fully in assuring that the licensed Controlled Affiliate maintains compliance with the license standards. in the Region and every geographic area in the Region is so licensed to at least one of the Controlling Plans and which the Controlling Plans do not concur CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO REGIONAL MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PPO PRODUCTS November 2019 The standards for licensing Controlled Affiliates for Medicare Advantage PPO Products are established by BCBSA and are subject to change from Standard 1 - Organization and Governance A Controlled Affiliate is defined as an entity organized and operated in such a manner, that it meets the following requirements: (1) Controlled Affiliate is owned or controlled by two or more Controlling (2) Each Controlling Plan is authorized pursuant to a separate Blue Cross License Agreement to use the Licensed Marks in a geographic area (3) The Controlling Plans must have the legal authority directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body having not less than 100% voting control thereof (b) prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with (c) exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate and written approval by each of the Controlling Plans before the Controlled Affiliate can: Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) Controlled Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) customers. License Agreements between BCBSA and Controlled Affiliate. EXHIBIT A (continued) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in (a) through (c) hereof, the Controlled Affiliate s establishing or governing documents must also require (i) change its legal and or trade names (ii) change the geographic area in which it operates (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the Controlled (iii) change any of the type(s) of businesses in which it engages (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the (iv) take any action that any Controlling Plan or BCBSA reasonably believes will adversely affect the Licensed Marks and Name. In addition, the Controlling Plans directly or indirectly through wholly owned subsidiaries shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. Standard 2 - Financial Responsibility A Controlled Affiliate shall be operated in a manner that provides reasonable financial assurance that it can fulfill all of its contractual obligations to its Standard 3 - State Licensure Certification A Controlled Affiliate shall maintain appropriate and unimpaired licensure and certifications. EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 4 - Certain Disclosures A Controlled Affiliate shall make adequate disclosure in contracting with third parties and in disseminating public statements of: a. the structure of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield System and b. the independent nature of every licensee. Standard 5 - Reports and Records for Controlled Affiliates A Controlled Affiliate and or its Controlling Plans shall furnish, on a timely and accurate basis, reports and records relating to these Standards and the Standard 6 - Best Efforts During each year, a Controlled Affiliate shall use its best efforts to promote and build the value of the Blue Cross Marks. Standard 7 - Participation in Certain National Programs A Controlled Affiliate shall effectively and efficiently participate in certain national programs from time to time as may be adopted by Member Plans for the purposes of providing ease of claims processing for customers receiving benefits outside of the Controlled Affiliate s service area. perform the functions of a business associate or subcontractor to a business associate, as defined by the Business Associate Agreement. members using the Marks on regional MAPPO products and related services as reported on the Quarterly Enrollment Report with BCBSA. The payment by each Controlling Plan of its dues to BCBSA, including that portion described in this paragraph, will satisfy the requirement of this paragraph, and no separate payment will be necessary. National program requirements include: a. Inter-Plan Teleprocessing System (ITS) and b. Inter-Plan Medicare Advantage Program. Standard 8 - Participation in Master Business Associate Agreement Controlled Affiliates shall comply with the terms of the Business Associate Agreement for Blue Cross and Blue Shield Licensees to the extent they ROYALTY FORMULA FOR SECTION 9 OF THE CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE AGREEMENTS APPLICABLE TO REGIONAL MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PPO PRODUCTS Controlled Affiliate will pay BCBSA a fee for this license in accordance with the following formula: An amount equal to its pro rata share of each Controlling Plan dues payable to BCBSA computed with the addition of the Controlled Affiliate's Amended as of November 15, 2007 Services ( CMS ) to offer Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan products in geographic regions designated by CMS (hereafter regional PDP products). marks (collectively the "Licensed Marks") as service marks and be entitled to use the term BLUE CROSS in a trade name ("Licensed Name") to offer regional PDP products in a region that includes the Service Areas, or portions thereof, of more than one Controlling Plan the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows: connection with, and only in connection with the sale, marketing and administration of regional PDP products and related services. Affiliate shall not do business outside the Region under any name or mark except business conducted in the Service Area of a Controlling Plan provided that Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed by BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Name in connection with health care plans and related services in the Service Area of such Controlling Plan and (iii) Controlled Affiliate shall not use the Licensed Marks and Name, or any derivative thereof, as part of any name or symbol used to identify itself in any securities market. Controlled Affiliate may use the Licensed Marks and Name in its Trade Name only with the prior, written, consent of BCBSA. bound by the conditions regarding quality control shown in attached Exhibit A as they may be amended by BCBSA from time-to-time. Affiliate"), a Controlled Affiliate of the Blue Cross Plan(s), known as Party signatory hereto. WHEREAS, BCBSA is the owner of the BLUE CROSS and BLUE CROSS Design service marks WHEREAS, under the Medicare Modernization Act, companies may apply to and be awarded a contract by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid WHEREAS, some of the CMS-designated regions include the Service Areas, or portions thereof, of more than one Plan. WHEREAS, the Controlling Plans and Controlled Affiliate desire that the latter be entitled to use the BLUE CROSS and BLUE CROSS Design service NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements hereinafter set forth and for other good and valuable consideration, 1. GRANT OF LICENSE Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, BCBSA hereby grants to Controlled Affiliate the right to use the Licensed Marks and Name in Marks and Name in its legal name on the following conditions: (i) the legal name must be approved in advance, in writing, by BCBSA (ii) Controlled 2. QUALITY CONTROL A. Controlled Affiliate agrees to use the Licensed Marks and Name only in connection with the licensed services and further agrees to be APPLICABLE TO REGIONAL MEDICARE PART D PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN PRODUCTS This Agreement by and among Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ("BCBSA") and ( Controlled (Adopted by Member Plans at their November 21, 2019 meeting) CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE AGREEMENT BLUE CROSS This grant of rights is non-exclusive and is limited to the following states: Amended as of June 14, 2007 (the Region ). Controlled Affiliate may use the Licensed Exhibit 1C a report or reports to the Controlling Plans and BCBSA demonstrating Controlled Affiliate's compliance with the requirements of this Agreement including but not limited to the quality control provisions of this paragraph and the attached Exhibit A. manner and method of Controlled Affiliate's rendering of service and use of the Licensed Marks and Name. requirements: written approval by each of the Controlling Plans before the Controlled Affiliate can: Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) Controlled Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) B. Controlled Affiliate agrees to comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws. C. Controlled Affiliate agrees that it will provide on an annual basis (or more often if reasonably required by the Controlling Plans or by BCBSA) D. Controlled Affiliate agrees that the Controlling Plans and or BCBSA may, from time-to-time, upon reasonable notice, review and inspect the E. As used herein, a Controlled Affiliate is defined as an entity organized and operated in such a manner, that it meets the following (1) Controlled Affiliate is owned or controlled by two or more Controlling Plans (2) Each Controlling Plan is authorized pursuant to a separate Blue Cross License Agreement to use the Licensed Marks in a geographic area Region and every geographic area in the Region is so licensed to at least one of the Controlling Plans and (3) The Controlling Plans must have the legal authority directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing Body having not less than 100% voting control thereof (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with which the Controlling Plans do not concur (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate and Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in (a) through (c) hereof, the Controlled Affiliate s establishing or governing documents must also require (i) change its legal and or trade names (ii) change the geographic area in which it operates (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the Controlled Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service (iii) change any of the type(s) of businesses in which it engages (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the (iv) take any action that any Controlling Plan or BCBSA reasonably believes will adversely affect the Licensed Marks and Name. In addition, the Controlling Plans directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. to strengthening the Licensed Marks and Name. The Controlled Affiliate further recognizes that its actions within the Region may affect the value of the Licensed Marks and Name nationwide. symbols or words as BCBSA shall specify to protect the Licensed Marks and Name and shall comply with such rules (generally applicable to Controlled Affiliates licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name) relative to service mark use, as are issued from time-to-time by BCBSA. Controlled Affiliate recognizes and agrees that all use of the Licensed Marks and Name by Controlled Affiliate shall inure to the benefit of BCBSA. the Region the goodwill associated therewith to another mark or name, nor may Controlled Affiliate engage in activity that may dilute or tarnish the unique value of the Licensed Marks and Name. marketing and administration of regional PDP products and related services. rights granted hereunder and any such act shall be voidable at the sole option of any Controlling Plan or BCBSA. This Agreement and all rights and duties hereunder are personal to Controlled Affiliate. infringement, unfair competition or passing off that may occur in relation to the Licensed Marks and Name. Controlled Affiliate shall not be entitled to require the Controlling Plans or BCBSA to take any actions or institute any proceedings to prevent infringement, unfair competition or passing off by third parties. Controlled Affiliate agrees to render to the Controlling Plans and BCBSA, without charge, all reasonable assistance in connection with any matter pertaining to the protection of the Licensed Marks and Name by BCBSA. damages, liabilities and costs of every kind, nature and description (except those arising solely as a result of BCBSA's negligence) that may arise as a result of 3. SERVICE MARK USE A. Controlled Affiliate recognizes the importance of a comprehensive national network of independent BCBSA licensees which are committed B. Controlled Affiliate shall at all times make proper service mark use of the Licensed Marks and Name, including but not limited to use of such C. Controlled Affiliate may not directly or indirectly use the Licensed Marks and Name in a manner that transfers or is intended to transfer in D. Controlled Affiliate shall use its best efforts to promote and build the value of the Licensed Marks and Name in connection with the sale, 4. SUBLICENSING AND ASSIGNMENT Controlled Affiliate shall not, directly or indirectly, sublicense, transfer, hypothecate, sell, encumber or mortgage, by operation of law or otherwise, the 5. INFRINGEMENT Controlled Affiliate shall promptly notify the Controlling Plans and the Controlling Plans shall promptly notify BCBSA of any suspected acts of 6. LIABILITY INDEMNIFICATION Controlled Affiliate and the Controlling Plans hereby agree to save, defend, indemnify and hold BCBSA harmless from and against all claims, or related to Controlled Affiliate's rendering of services under the Licensed Marks and Name. automatically extended for additional one (1) year periods unless terminated pursuant to the provisions herein. in the event that: (i) any one of the Controlling Plans ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Marks and Name or (ii) pursuant to Paragraph 15(a)(x) of the Blue Cross License Agreement any one of the Controlling Plans ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Names and Marks in the Region. Controlling Plans or the affirmative vote of the majority of the Board of Directors of BCBSA present and voting at a special meeting expressly called by BCBSA for the purpose on ten (10) days written notice to the Controlling Plans advising of the specific matters at issue and granting the Controlling Plans an opportunity to be heard and to present their response to the Board for: (1) failure to comply with any applicable minimum capital or liquidity requirement under the quality control standards of this Agreement or (2) failure to comply with the "Organization and Governance" quality control standard of this Agreement or (3) impending financial insolvency or (4) failure to comply with any of the applicable requirements of Standards 2, 3, 4, or 5 of attached Exhibit A or (5) the pendency of any action instituted against the Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business or seeking the declaration or establishment of a trust for any of its property or business, unless this Controlled Affiliate License Agreement has been earlier terminated under paragraph 7(E) or (6) such other reason as is determined in good faith immediately and irreparably to threaten the integrity and reputation of BCBSA, the Plans (including the Controlling Plans), any other licensee including Controlled Affiliate and or the Licensed Marks and Name. Agreement and not cure such failure within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice thereof (or commence a cure within such thirty day period and continue diligent efforts to that the Controlled Affiliate is in a state of noncompliance. If a state of noncompliance as aforesaid is undisputed by the Controlled Affiliate or is found to exist by a mandatory dispute resolution panel and is uncured as provided above, BCBSA shall have the right to seek judicial enforcement of the Agreement or to issue a notice of termination thereof. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, any disputes as to the termination of this License pursuant to Paragraphs 7(B), 7(C) or 7(E) of this Agreement shall not be subject to mediation and mandatory dispute resolution. All other disputes between or among BCBSA, any of the Controlling Plans and or Controlled Affiliate shall be submitted promptly to mediation and mandatory dispute resolution. The mandatory dispute resolution panel shall have authority to issue orders for specific performance and assess monetary penalties. any reason without the affirmative vote of a majority of the present and voting members of the Board of Directors of BCBSA. Agreement, are more than sixty (60) days in arrears to BCBSA or other law governing insolvency or debtor relief, or (ii) an involuntary petition or proceeding shall be filed against Controlled Affiliate seeking bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement with creditors or other relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or any other law governing insolvency or debtor relief and such petition or proceeding is consented to or acquiesced in by Controlled Affiliate or is not dismissed within sixty (60) days of the date upon which the petition or other document commencing the proceeding is served upon the Controlled Affiliate, or (iii) an order for relief is entered against Controlled Affiliate in any case under the bankruptcy laws of the United States, or Controlled Affiliate is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent as those terms are defined in the Uniform Commercial Code as enacted in the State of Illinois by any court of competent jurisdiction, or (iv) Controlled Affiliate makes a general assignment of its assets for the benefit of creditors, or (v) any government or any government official, office, agency, branch, or unit assumes control of Controlled Affiliate or delinquency proceedings (voluntary or involuntary) are instituted, or (vi) an action is brought by Controlled Affiliate seeking its 7. LICENSE TERM A. Except as otherwise provided herein, the license granted by this Agreement shall remain in effect for a period of one (1) year and shall be B. This Agreement and all of Controlled Affiliate's rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by any party or entity C. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, this license to use the Licensed Marks and Name may be forthwith terminated by the D. Except as otherwise provided in Paragraphs 7(B), 7(C) or 7(E) herein, should Controlled Affiliate fail to comply with the provisions of this complete the cure if such curing cannot reasonably be completed within such thirty day period) BCBSA or the Controlling Plans shall have the right to issue a notice Except, however, as provided in Paragraphs 7(B) and 7(E) of this Agreement, this license to use the Licensed Marks and Name may not be finally terminated for E. This Agreement and all of Controlled Affiliate's rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by any party or entity in the event (1) Controlled Affiliate shall no longer comply with item 2(E) above (2) Appropriate dues, royalties and other payments for Controlled Affiliate pursuant to paragraph 9 hereof, which are the royalties for this License (3) Any of the following events occur: (i) a voluntary petition shall be filed by Controlled Affiliate seeking bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement with creditors or other relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or any an action is instituted by any governmental entity or officer against Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking the appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business and such action is consented to or acquiesced in by Controlled Affiliate or is not dismissed within one hundred thirty (130) days of the date upon which the pleading or other document commencing the action is served upon the Controlled Affiliate, provided that if the action is stayed or its prosecution is enjoined, the one hundred thirty (130) day period is tolled for the duration of the stay or injunction, and provided further, that the Association s Board of Directors may toll or extend the 130 day period at any time prior to its expiration, or (viii) a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of Controlled Affiliate's property or business is appointed or the Controlled Affiliate is ordered dissolved or liquidated. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, a declaration or a request for declaration of the existence of a trust over any of the Controlled Affiliate s property or business shall not in itself be deemed to constitute or seek appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for purposes of subparagraphs 7(E)(3)(vii) and and Name, including any use in its trade name, except to the extent that it continues to be authorized to use the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan. Licensed Marks pursuant to this Agreement that it is no longer a licensee of BCBSA and, if directed by the Association s Board of Directors, shall provide instruction on how the customer can contact BCBSA or a designated licensee to obtain further information on securing coverage. The notification required by this paragraph shall be in writing and in a form approved by BCBSA. The BCBSA shall have the right to audit the terminated entity's books and records to verify compliance with this paragraph. the following provisions shall apply, except that, in the event that Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed by BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks in the Service Area of a Controlling Plan and termination of this Agreement is due to a partial termination of such Controlling Plan s license pursuant to Paragraph 15(a)(x)(ii) of the Blue Cross dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking the appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business, or (vii) (viii) of this Agreement. F. Upon termination of this Agreement for cause or otherwise, Controlled Affiliate agrees that it shall immediately discontinue all use of the Licensed Marks G. Upon termination of this Agreement, Controlled Affiliate shall immediately notify all of its customers to whom it provides products or services under the H. In the event this Agreement terminates pursuant to 7(B) hereof, upon termination of this Agreement the provisions of Paragraph 7(G) shall not apply and and the geographic area for which the Controlling Plan s license to use the Licensed Names and Marks is terminated: Marks and Name. consequences thereof, and instructions for obtaining alternate products or services licensed by BCBSA. This notice shall be mailed within 15 days after termination. identifying the national account and the Controlled Affiliate s role therein. Controlling Plans, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans shall be jointly liable for payment to BCBSA of an amount equal to 25 multiplied by the number of Licensed Enrollees of the Controlled Affiliate provided that if any Plan other than a Controlling Plan is permitted by BCBSA to use marks or names licensed by BCBSA in a geographic area in the Region, the payment for Licensed Enrollees in such geographic area shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of Licensed Enrollees of the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans in such geographic area and the denominator of which is the total number of Licensed Enrollees in such geographic area. Licensed Enrollee means each and every person and covered dependent who is enrolled as an individual or member of a group receiving products or services sold, marketed or administered under marks or names licensed by BCBSA as determined at the earlier of (i) the end of the last fiscal year of the terminated entity which ended prior to termination or (ii) the fiscal year which ended before any transactions causing the termination began. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount payable pursuant to this subparagraph H. (3) shall be due only to the extent that, in BCBSA s opinion, it does not cause the net worth of the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans or any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans to fall below 100% of the Health Risk-Based Capital formula, or its equivalent under any successor formula, as set forth in the applicable financial responsibility standards established by BCBSA (provided such equivalent is approved for purposes of this subparagraph by the affirmative vote of three-fourths value of any transactions not made in the ordinary course of business. This payment shall not be due in connection with transactions exclusively by or among Plans (including the Controlling Plans) or their affiliates, including reorganizations, combinations or mergers, where the BCBSA Board of Directors determines that the license termination does not result in a material diminution in the number of Licensed Enrollees or the extent of their coverage. In the event that the Controlled Affiliate s license is reinstated by BCBSA or is deemed to have remained in effect without interruption by a court of competent jurisdiction, BCBSA shall reimburse the Controlled Affiliate (and or the Controlling Plans or their other Licensed Controlled Affiliates, as the case may be) for payments made under this subparagraph 7.H.(3) only to the extent that such payments exceed the amounts due to BCBSA pursuant to paragraph 7.K. and any costs associated with reestablishing the terminated Controlling Plan s Service Area or the Region, including any payments made by BCBSA to a Plan or Plans (including the other Controlling Plans), or their Licensed Controlled Affiliates, for purposes of replacing the Controlled Affiliate. paragraph 7.H. parties agree there is no adequate remedy at law and BCBSA is entitled to obtain specific performance. License Agreement, the notices, national account listing, payment, and audit right listed below shall be applicable solely with respect to the Region (1) The Controlled Affiliate shall send a notice through the U.S. mails, with first class postage affixed, to all individual and group customers, providers, brokers and agents of products or services sold, marketed, underwritten or administered by the Controlled Affiliate under the Licensed The form and content of the notice shall be specified by BCBSA and shall, at a minimum, notify the recipient of the termination of the license, the (2) The Controlled Affiliate shall deliver to BCBSA within five days of a request by BCBSA a listing of national accounts in which the Controlled Affiliate is involved (in a control, participating or servicing capacity), (3) Unless the cause of termination is an event respecting BCBSA stated in paragraph 15(a) or (b) of the Plan s license agreement with BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Name, the Controlled Affiliate, the of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans) measured as of the date of termination, and adjusted for the (4) BCBSA shall have the right to audit the books and records of the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans to verify compliance with this (5) As to a breach of 7.H.(1), (2), (3) or (4), the parties agree that the obligations are immediately enforceable in a court of competent jurisdiction. As to a breach of 7.H.(1), (2) or (4) by the Controlled Affiliate, the I. BCBSA shall be entitled to enjoin the Controlled Affiliate or any related party in a court of competent jurisdiction from entry into any transaction which would result in a termination of this Agreement unless a Controlling Plan s license from BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Names has been terminated pursuant to 10(d) of such Controlling Plan s license agreement upon the required 6 month written notice. interruption by a court of competent jurisdiction, the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans shall be jointly liable for reimbursing BCBSA the reasonable costs incurred by BCBSA in connection with the termination and the reinstatement or court action, and any associated legal proceedings, including but not limited to: outside legal fees, consulting fees, public relations fees, advertising costs, and costs incurred to develop, lease or establish an interim provider network. Any amount due to BCBSA under this subparagraph may be waived in whole or in part by the BCBSA Board of Directors in its sole discretion. that use in any manner the Blue Cross and Blue Cross Marks and Name are subject to the Mediation and Mandatory Dispute Resolution process attached to and made a part of each Controlling Plan s License from BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Name as Exhibit 5 as amended from time-to-time, which documents are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth herein. Controlling Plans and Controlled Affiliate or between either and BCBSA. last known address of each other party, marked respectively to the attention of its President and, if any, its General Counsel. the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans as officially recorded by the BCBSA Corporate Secretary. J. BCBSA acknowledges that it is not the owner of assets of the Controlled Affiliate. K. In the event this Agreement terminates and is subsequently reinstated by BCBSA or is deemed to have remained in effect without 8. DISPUTE RESOLUTION The parties agree that any disputes between or among them or between or among any of them and one or more Plans or Controlled Affiliates of Plans 9. LICENSE FEE Controlled Affiliate will pay to BCBSA a fee for this License determined pursuant to the formula(s) set forth in Exhibit B. 10. JOINT VENTURE Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as creating a joint venture, partnership, agency or employment relationship between the 11. NOTICES AND CORRESPONDENCE Notices regarding the subject matter of this Agreement or breach or termination thereof shall be in writing and shall be addressed in duplicate to the 12. COMPLETE AGREEMENT This Agreement contains the complete understandings of the parties in relation to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may only be amended by of the parties hereunder and the court may substitute a lawful term or condition for any unlawful term or condition so long as the effect of such substitution is to provide the parties with the benefits of this Agreement. conditions of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach or default in performance of said terms, covenants or conditions. and or the Blue Shield License Agreement, and in all votes of the Plans under this Agreement the Plans shall vote together. For weighted votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have a number of votes equal to the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Cross Plan plus the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Shield Plan. For all other votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have one vote. For all questions requiring an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote of the Plans, the requirement shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless the greater of: (i) 6 52 or more of the Plans (rounded to the nearest whole number, with fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, if there are thirty-nine (39) Plans, the requirement of an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless four (4) or more Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. 13. SEVERABILITY If any term of this Agreement is held to be unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction, such findings shall in no way affect the remaining obligations 14. NONWAIVER No waiver by BCBSA of any breach or default in performance on the part of Controlled Affiliate or any other licensee of any of the terms, covenants or 14A. VOTING For all provisions of this Agreement referring to voting, the term Plans shall mean all entities licensed under the Blue Cross License Agreement 0.5 or multiples thereof being rounded to the next higher whole number) fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question or (ii) three (3) of the Plans 15. GOVERNING LAW This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of Illinois. 16. HEADINGS The headings inserted in this agreement are for convenience only and shall have no bearing on the interpretation hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this License Agreement to be executed and effective as of the date of last signature written below. Controlled Affiliate: Date: Controlling Plan: change from time- to-time upon the affirmative vote of three-fourths (3 4) of the Plans and three-fourths (3 4) of the total weighted vote. Each Controlling Plan is required to use a standard Controlled Affiliate license form provided by BCBSA and to cooperate fully in assuring that the licensed Controlled Affiliate maintains compliance with the license standards. in the Region and every geographic area in the Region is so licensed to at least one of the Controlling Plans and which the Controlling Plans do not concur Date: Controlling Plan: Date: BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION Date: CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO REGIONAL MEDICARE PART D PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN PRODUCTS November 2019 PREAMBLE The standards for licensing Controlled Affiliates for Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan Products are established by BCBSA and are subject to Standard 1 - Organization and Governance A Controlled Affiliate is defined as an entity organized and operated in such a manner, that it meets the following requirements: (1) Controlled Affiliate is owned or controlled by two or more Controlling Plans (2) Each Controlling Plan is authorized pursuant to a separate Blue Cross License Agreement to use the Licensed Marks in a geographic area (3) The Controlling Plans must have the legal authority directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body having not less than 100% voting control thereof (b) prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with (c) exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate and written approval by each of the Controlling Plans before the Controlled Affiliate can: Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) Controlled Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) customers. EXHIBIT A (continued) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in (a) through (c) hereof, the Controlled Affiliate s establishing or governing documents must also require (i) change its legal and or trade names (ii) change the geographic area in which it operates (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the Controlled (iii) change any of the type(s) of businesses in which it engages (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the (iv) take any action that any Controlling Plan or BCBSA reasonably believes will adversely affect the Licensed Marks and Name. In addition, the Controlling Plans directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. Standard 2 - Financial Responsibility A Controlled Affiliate shall be operated in a manner that provides reasonable financial assurance that it can fulfill all of its contractual obligations to its Standard 3 - State Licensure Certification A Controlled Affiliate shall maintain appropriate and unimpaired licensure and certifications. EXHIBIT A (continued) License Agreements between BCBSA and Controlled Affiliate. perform the functions of a business associate or subcontractor to a business associate, as defined by the Business Associate Agreement. members using the Marks on regional PDP products and related services as reported on the Quarterly Enrollment Report with BCBSA. The payment by each Controlling Plan of its dues to BCBSA, including that portion described in this paragraph, will satisfy the requirement of this paragraph, and no separate payment will be necessary. Standard 4 - Certain Disclosures A Controlled Affiliate shall make adequate disclosure in contracting with third parties and in disseminating public statements of: a. the structure of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield System and b. the independent nature of every licensee. Standard 5 - Reports and Records for Controlled Affiliates A Controlled Affiliate and or its Controlling Plans shall furnish, on a timely and accurate basis, reports and records relating to these Standards and the Standard 6 - Best Efforts During each year, a Controlled Affiliate shall use its best efforts to promote and build the value of the Blue Cross Marks. Standard 7 - Participation in Master Business Associate Agreement Controlled Affiliates shall comply with the terms of the Business Associate Agreement for Blue Cross and Blue Shield Licensees to the extent they ROYALTY FORMULA FOR SECTION 9 OF THE CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE AGREEMENTS APPLICABLE TO REGIONAL MEDICARE PART D PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN PRODUCTS Controlled Affiliate will pay BCBSA a fee for this license in accordance with the following formula: An amount equal to its pro rata share of each Controlling Plan dues payable to BCBSA computed with the addition of the Controlled Affiliate's Association. Any organization seeking to become a Regular Member must be found to be in substantial compliance with all Membership Standards at the time membership is granted and the organization must be found to be in substantial compliance with all Membership Standards for a period of two (2) years preceding the date of its application. If Membership is sought by an entity which controls or is controlled by one or more Plans, such compliance shall be determined on the basis of compliance by such Plan or Plans. of the consolidated enterprise assets (excludes investments in subsidiaries) and less than 5% of the consolidated enterprise net general and administrative expenses. than 1% of the consolidated enterprise assets (excludes investments in subsidiaries) or more than 5% of the consolidated enterprise net general and administrative expenses. governance. A Plan's Board shall not be controlled by any special interest group, shall make an annual determination that a majority of its directors are independent, and shall act in the best interest of its Corporation and its customers. The Board shall be composed of a majority of persons other than providers of health care services, who shall be known as public members. A public member shall not be an employee of or have a financial interest in a health care provider, nor be a member of a profession which provides health care services. Membership Standards Page 1 of 5 Preamble The Membership Standards apply to all organizations seeking to become or to continue as Regular Members of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield The Regular Member Plans shall have authority to interpret these Standards. A Regular Member Plan that operates as a Shell Holding Company is defined as an entity that assumes no underwriting risk and has less than 1% A Regular Member Plan that operates as a Hybrid Holding Company is defined as an entity that assumes no underwriting risk and has either more Standard 1: A Plan shall maintain a governing Board, which shall control the Plan and ensure that the Plan follows appropriate practices of corporate Amended as of June 14, 2007 and the License Agreements between the Association and the Plans. Such reports and records are the following: Board composition, or changes in the identity of the Plan's Principal Officers Certified Audit Report, Insurance Department Examination Report, Annual Statement filed with State Insurance Department (with all attachments), Plan, Subsidiary and Affiliate Report and Based Capital (HRBC) Report as defined by the NAIC. starting 1 1 2012 and thereafter. Membership Standards Page 2 of 5 Standard 2: A Plan shall furnish to the Association on a timely and accurate basis reports and records relating to compliance with these Standards A. BCBSA Membership Information Request B. Triennial trade name and service mark usage material, including disclosure material under Standard 7 C. Changes in the governance of the Plan, including changes in a Plan's Charter, Articles of Incorporation, or Bylaws, changes in a Plan's D. Quarterly Financial Report, Semi-annual Health Risk- Based Capital (HRBC) Report as defined by the NAIC, Annual Budget, Annual Plans that are a Shell Holding Company as defined in the Preamble hereto are required to furnish only a calendar year-end Health Risk- Membership Standards Page 3 of 5 E. Quarterly Enrollment Report, Quarterly Member Touchpoint Measures Index (MTM) through 12 31 2011, and Semi-annual MTM Index For purposes of MTM reporting only, a Plan shall file a separate MTM report for each Geographic Market. Standard 3: A Plan shall be operated in a manner that provides reasonable financial assurance that it can fulfill its contractual obligations to its customers. Amended as of March 15, 2007 Amended as of November 17, 2011 the purposes of providing portability of membership between the Plans and ease of claims processing for customers receiving benefits outside of the Plan's Service Area. action as required to ensure its financial performance in programs and contracts of an inter-Plan nature or where the Association is a party. Blue Cross and Blue Shield System, administration of the Plan Performance Response Process and in addressing Plan performance problems identified thereunder. for such purpose. providing licensable services (excluding Life Insurance and Charitable Foundation Services) shall use their best efforts to promote and build the value of the Blue Cross Marks. thereof to obtain control of the Plan or Larger Controlled Affiliate or to acquire a substantial portion of its assets related to licensable services. Standard 4: A Plan shall be operated in a manner responsive to customer needs and requirements. Standard 5: A Plan shall effectively and efficiently participate in each national program as from time to time may be adopted by the Member Plans for Such programs are applicable to Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans, and include: A. Inter-Plan Teleprocessing System (ITS) B. BlueCard Program C. National Account Programs D. Business Associate Agreement for Blue Cross and Blue Shield Licensees, effective April 14, 2003 and E. Inter-Plan Medicare Advantage Program. Membership Standards Page 4 of 5 Standard 6: In addition to requirements under the national programs listed in Standard 5: Participation in National Programs, a Plan shall take such Standard 7: A Plan shall make adequate disclosure in contracting with third parties and in disseminating public statements of (i) the structure of the (ii) the independent nature of every Plan, and (iii) the Plan's financial condition. Standard 8: A Plan shall cooperate with the Association's Board of Directors and its Brand Enhancement & Protection Committee in the Standard 9: A Plan shall obtain a rating of its financial strength from an independent rating agency approved by the Association's Board of Directors Standard 10: Notwithstanding any other provision in this License Agreement, during each year, a Plan and its Controlled Affiliate(s) engaged in Standard 11: Neither a Plan nor any Larger Controlled Affiliate shall cause or permit an entity other than a Plan or a Licensed Controlled Affiliate Amended as of November 21, 2014 Names are used in any way with such network. being rented. and Protected Health Information (PHI) 2) protect the Brands from reputational damage and 3) cooperate with BCBSA and other Plans if a data security incident or data breach occurs. Membership Standards Page 5 of 5 Standard 12: No provider network, or portion thereof, shall be rented or otherwise made available to a National Competitor if the Licensed Marks or A provider network may be rented or otherwise made available, provided there is no use of the Licensed Marks or Names with respect to the network Standard 13: Each Plan shall operate in a manner to reasonably: 1) protect the security and confidentiality of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) Amended as of June 16, 2005 benefits to National Accounts, are predicated on locally managed provider networks coordinated on a national scale in a manner consistent with effective service to National Account customers and consistent with the preservation of the integrity of the Blue Cross Blue Shield system and the Licensed Marks. These guidelines shall be interpreted in keeping with such ends. National Account is deemed located in the Service Area in which the corporate headquarters of the National Account is located. A local plant, office or division headquarters of an entity may be deemed a separate National Account when that local plant, office or division headquarters 1) has employee locations in more than one Service Area, and 2) has independent health benefit decision- making authority for the employees working at such local plant, office or division headquarters and for employees working at other locations outside the Service Area. In such a case, the local plant, office or division headquarters is a National Account that is deemed located in the Service Area in which such local plant, office or division headquarters is located. The Control Plan of a National Account is the Plan in whose Service Area the National Account is located. A participating ("Par") Plan is a Plan in whose Service Area the National Account has employee and or retiree locations, but in which the National Account is not located. In the event that a National Account parent company consolidates health benefit-decision making for itself and its wholly-owned subsidiary companies, the parent company and the subsidiary companies shall be considered one National Account. The Control Plan for such a National Account shall be the Plan in whose Service Area the parent company headquarters is located. acquired after January 1, 1991. connection with all National Accounts business to facilitate administration thereof, to minimize subscriber and provider confusion, and to reflect a commitment to cooperation among Plans. shall be submitted to mediation and mandatory dispute resolution as provided in the License Agreement. For two years from the effective date of the License Agreement, however, such disputes shall be subject to mediation only, with the results of such mediation to be collected and reported in order to establish more definitive operating parameters for National Accounts business and to serve as ground rules for future binding dispute resolution. a Participating Plan s service area if an alternative arrangement with the Participating Plan cannot be negotiated. The Participating Plan s minimum servicing requirement for those employees and non-Medicare retirees in its service area is to deliver benefits using the BlueCard Program. Account delivery is subject to the policies, provisions and procedures of the BlueCard Program. Plan or the Control Plan at the Participating Plan's option. If the Participating Plan elects to pay the provider, it may not withhold payment of a claim verified by the Control Plan or its designated processor, and payment must be in conformity with service criteria established by the Board of Directors of BCBSA (or an authorized committee thereof) to assure prompt payment, good service and minimum confusion with providers and subscribers. The Control Plan, at the Participating Plan's request, will also assure that measures are taken to protect the confidentiality of the data pertaining to provider reimbursement levels and profiles. GUIDELINES WITH RESPECT TO USE OF LICENSED NAME AND MARKS IN CONNECTION WITH NATIONAL ACCOUNTS Page 1 of 3 1. The strength of the Blue Cross Blue Cross National Accounts mechanism, and the continued provision of cost effective, quality health care 2. A National Account is an entity with employee and or retiree locations in more than one Plan's Service Area. Unless otherwise agreed, a 3. The National Account Guidelines enunciated herein below shall be applicable only with respect to the business of new National Accounts 4. Control Plans shall utilize National Account identification cards complying with then currently effective BCBSA graphic standards in Page 2 of 3 5. Disputes among Plans and or BCBSA as to the interpretation or implementation of these Guidelines or as to other National Accounts issues 6. The Control Plan may use the BlueCard Program (as defined by IPPC) to deliver benefits to employees and non-Medicare eligible retirees in 7. For provider payments in a Participating Plan s area (on non-BlueCard claims), payment to the provider may be made by the Participating Amended as of June 18, 2015 Amended as of June 12, 2003 passed along to the Control Plan by all Participating Plans in a National Account. serve its subscribers or those of its licensed Controlled Affiliate residing or working in its Service Area, a Control Plan may not use the Licensed Marks and or Name, as a tag line or otherwise, to negotiate directly with providers outside its Service Area. Page 3 of 3 8. The Control Plan, in its financial agreements with a National Account, is expected to reasonably reflect the aggregate amount of differentials 9. Other than in contracting with health care providers or soliciting such contracts in areas contiguous to a Plan's Service Area in order to Amended as of June 14, 1996 Government Program, and in thereafter communicating with the Government concerning the Program. With respect, however, to such contracts entered into after the 1st day of January, 1991, the Licensed Marks and Name will not be used in communications or transactions with beneficiaries or providers in the Government Program located outside a Plan's Service Area, unless the Plan can demonstrate to the satisfaction of BCBSA's governing body that such a restriction on use of the Licensed Marks and Name will jeopardize its ability to procure the contract for the Government Program. As to both existing and future contracts for Government Programs, Plans will discontinue use of the Licensed Marks and Name as to beneficiaries and Providers outside their Service Area as expeditiously as circumstances reasonably permit. Effective January 1, 1995, except as provided in the first sentence above, all use by a Plan of the Licensed Marks and Name in Government Programs outside of the Plan's Service Area shall be discontinued. Incidental communications outside a Plan's Service Area with resident or former resident beneficiaries of the Plan, and other categories of necessary incidental communications approved by BCBSA, are not prohibited. For purposes of this Paragraph 1, the term Government Programs shall mean Medicare Part A, Medicare Part B and other non-risk government programs. Licensed Marks and Name in its Service Area pursuant to the Controlled Affiliate License Agreements authorized in clauses a) through c) of Paragraph 2 of the Plan s License Agreement with BCBSA may use the Licensed Marks and Name outside the Plan s Service Area in the following circumstances which are deemed legitimate and necessary and not likely to cause consumer confusion: promoting, selling or soliciting the sale of health care plans and related services) Affiliate, provided that no Plan or Controlled Affiliate may advertise outside its Service Area on the national broadcast and cable networks and that GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS AND CERTAIN OTHER USES Page 1 of 14 1. A Plan and its licensed Controlled Affiliate may use the Licensed Marks and Name in bidding on and executing a contract to serve a 2. In connection with activity otherwise in furtherance of the License Agreement, a Plan and its Controlled Affiliates that are licensed to use the 2.1 Common Business Communications a. sending letterhead, envelopes, and similar items solely for administrative purposes (e.g., not for purposes of marketing, advertising, b. distributing business cards other than in marketing and selling c. advertising in publications or electronic media solely to persons for employment Page 2 of 14 2.2 Marketing Spillover a. advertising in print, electronic or other media which serve, as a substantial market, the Service Area of the Plan or licensed Controlled Amended as of March 13, 2003 Amended as of June 19, 2014 advertisements in national print media are limited to the smallest regional edition encompassing the Service Area Controlled Affiliate subscribers or those of such licensed Controlled Affiliates residing or working in its service area identify the latter as a participating provider of the Plan or Controlled Affiliate rendered or to be rendered with the Licensee (or any of the Licensees in the case of overlapping Service Areas) in whose Service Area the health care provider is located, so long as related to case-specific rate negotiations, and consent before negotiations commence. to provide self-administered prescription drugs to deliver a pharmacy benefit for all of the Plan s or licensed Controlled Affiliate s members nationwide, provided, however, that the Pharmacy Intermediary may not use the Licensed Marks or Name in contracting with the pharmacy providers in such network b. advertising by direct mail where the addressee's zip code plus 4 includes, at least in part, the Plan's Service Area or that of a licensed 2.3 Provider Contracting a. contracting with health care providers or soliciting such contracts in areas contiguous to the Plan's Service Area in order to serve its b. issuing a small sign containing the legal name or trade name of the Plan or such licensed Controlled Affiliates for display by a provider to c. negotiating case-specific reimbursement rates with a provider that does not have a contract applicable to a specific member s services (1) the Licensee engaging in the negotiations complies with all applicable Inter-Plan Programs Policies and Provisions and Brand Regulations (2) the Licensee (or all Licensees in the case of overlapping Service Areas) in whose Service Area the health care provider is located provides Page 3 of 14 d. contracting with a pharmacy management organization ( Pharmacy Intermediary ) to gain access to a national or regional pharmacy network Amended as of January 22, 2019 self-administered prescription drugs to deliver a pharmacy benefit for all of the Plan s or licensed Controlled Affiliate s members nationwide, provided that (1) the Plan and the Controlled Affiliate may not contract directly with pharmacists or pharmacy stores outside the Plan s Service Area, and (2) neither the Plan s or the Controlled Affiliate s name nor the Licensed Marks or Name may be posted or otherwise displayed at or by any pharmacy store outside the Plan s Service Area routine dental benefit for all of the Plan s or licensed Controlled Affiliate s members nationwide, provided, however, that the Dental Intermediary may not use the Licensed Marks or Name in contracting with the dental providers in such network routine vision benefit for all of the Plan s or licensed Controlled Affiliate s members nationwide, provided, however, that the Vision Intermediary may not use the Licensed Marks or Name in contracting with the vision providers in such network Service Area medical equipment and supplies that are shipped to a location within the Plan s Service Area located within the Plan s Service Area Page 4 of 14 e. contracting with the corporate owner of a national or regional retail pharmacy chain to gain access to the pharmacies in the chain to provide f. contracting with a dental management organization ( Dental Intermediary ) to gain access to a national or regional dental network to deliver a g. contracting with a vision management organization ( Vision Intermediary ) to gain access to a national or regional vision network to deliver a h. contracting with an independent clinical laboratory for analysis and clinical assessment of specimens that are collected within the Plan s i. contracting with a durable medical equipment or home medical equipment company for durable medical equipment and supplies and home j. contracting with a specialty pharmaceutical company for non- routine biological therapeutics that are ordered by a health care professional Amended as of January 22, 2019 at a site (e.g., hospital, mobile van) that is within the Plan s Service Area provided that the contract is solely for services rendered by health care professionals who are located within the Plan s Service Area. Inter-Plan Programs Policies and Provisions ( IP Policies )) to offer Blue-branded Health Coverage to the National Account, offering Blue-branded Health and Wellness Programs to all members of the National Account, including members who have not enrolled in the Blue-branded Health Coverage ( non-Blue Health Coverage members ), provided that: specifically provided in the IP Policies and in that is outside of the Plan s Service Area, the Plan and or licensed Controlled Affiliate may not offer Blue-branded Health and Wellness Programs to any employees working at such local plant, office or division without the consent of such other Licensee and display the Symbols in the masthead, must contain a prominent disclosure conveying that it is not a health insurance card, and otherwise must be designed so that it is dissimilar to a Blue member identification card. Page 5 of 14 k. contracting with a company that operates provider sites in the Plan s Service Area, provided that the contract is solely for services rendered l. contracting with a company that makes health care professionals available in the Plan s Service Area (e.g., traveling home health nurse), 2.4 Services to National Accounts a. in conjunction with contracting with a National Account as Control Licensee or Alternate Control Licensee (as those terms are defined in the i. the Plan and or licensed Controlled Affiliate has no contact or interaction with providers outside of the Plan s Service Area, except as 2.4 (b) and (i) if in accordance with IP Policies another Licensee is soliciting or servicing under the Brands a local plant, office or division of the account (ii) if the Plan and or licensed Controlled Affiliate provides an information card to the non-Blue Health Coverage members, the card may not Page 6 of 14 2.4 Services to National Accounts (continued) For purposes of this subparagraph a, the following definitionsapply: Health and Wellness Program shall mean a program that includes at least one of the following elements or a related element: Health Risk Assessment and or Preventive Screenings Amended as of March 26, 2015 different media such as the internet or telephonically, may also be deemed Health and Wellness programs. POS or other managed care plan for the foregoing services. wellness organization to gain access to providers to deliver a discrete health and wellness event ( Event ) held at a National Account s worksite outside of the Licensee s Service Area, provided that: pressure measurements, body mass index measurements, and other routine screenings, immunizations and measurements and Coverage to the National Account, performing the Eligibility and Enrollment functions of HR administration for all benefit plans offered by the National Account to its members, including benefit plans that are not underwritten or administered by the Plan, provided that: providers outside of the Plan s Service Area, and otherwise limits its use of the Brands outside of the Service Area to communications with the account s members, the other benefit plan providers with which the account has contracted and other reasonably necessary communications to perform such functions and that is outside of the Plan s Service Area, the Plan and or licensed Controlled Affiliate may not perform Eligibility and Enrollment functions for employees working at such local plant, office or division without the consent of such other Licensee waste and abuse investigation activities for a non- participating provider in a Par Host Plan s service area, as long as the Control Home Plan is given permission to do so by the Par Host Plan and specific conditions are met in accordance with Inter-Plan Programs and Inter-Plan Medicare Advantage Program policies. Exercise and Fitness Programs Health and Wellness Events (e.g., attendance at a health fair, a 5K walk) Nutrition and Weight Management Health Education (e.g., smoking cessation classes) Prenatal and Parenting Education Disease or Chronic Condition Management The above listing is intended to represent examples of the types of programs that may be offered, and other programs, including those offered through Health Coverage shall mean providing or administering medical, surgical, hospital, major medical, or catastrophic coverage, or any HMO, PPO, b. as part of a Health and Wellness Program that is otherwise compliant with Brand Regulation 4.11.4(a), contracting with a health and i. the services delivered at the Event are limited to fingerstick screenings for cholesterol and glucose, seasonal flu immunizations, blood ii. neither such services nor their costs are applied as claims against any benefit plan and iii. the Event is presented during one or more limited periods during a benefit year and is available to all employees at the worksite. Page 7 of 14 c. in conjunction with contracting with a National Account as Control Licensee or Alternate Control Licensee to offer Blue-branded Health i. in performing such functions, the Plan and or licensed Controlled Affiliate does not use the Brands in any communications with health care ii. if in accordance with IP Policies another Licensee is soliciting or servicing under the Brands a local plant, office or division of the account d. in conjunction with contracting with a National Account as Control Licensee or Alternate Control Licensee to perform or investigate fraud, For purposes of this subparagraph b, the following definitions apply: Health Coverage has the meaning set forth in subparagraph 2.4.a. Amended as of March 26, 2015 offered by the account to its employees, including such services as: Medicare-eligible, retirees) COBRA event and benefit plans on an ongoing basis and during open enrollment periods, including such services as: statements Page 8 of 14 Eligibility means services that manage the account s eligibility data and determine or process determinations relating to eligibility for benefit plans monitoring and auditing data to ensure that only entitled individuals are enrolled in each such benefit plan review of eligibility documentation (e.g. marriage licenses, birth certificates, student status verification letters, employment records) identification of key member segments such as over-age dependents, part-time employees, employees reaching certain milestones (e.g. termination of coverage for those individuals found to be ineligible for coverage under a benefit plan, and, if applicable, generation of a management of hour-banking for union environments in which union members can bank hours to remain eligible for benefits. Enrollment means services that enroll eligible individuals and their spouses dependents or terminate or change their enrollment in the account s the coordination of each step in open enrollment process from project planning and system set-up to the generation of confirmation ongoing enrollment support for new hires and changes due to life events and work status adjustments evidence of insurability (EOI) administration for life and disability coverage transmission of eligibility enrollment information to the account s benefit plan providers review and reconciliation of error reports received from the account s benefit plan providers and transmission of information to the account s payroll system (e.g., benefit deductions, employee demographic data). Page 9 of 14 Amended September 27, 2018 Amended as of March 26, 2015 reviewed journals the Licensee s Service Area regarding either (i) healthcare financing, administration, delivery or policy, or (ii) topics within the representative s functional discipline or expertise at the Licensee, for which the event sponsor will issue communications to promote, administer, and or recap the event that will identify the Licensee s representative as a participant. The communications outside of the Licensee s Service Area that mention the Licensee s representative shall be limited to materials and digital media provided to attendees, on-site signage, advertising in relevant trade publications, direct mail and email to attendees and prospective attendees, and the sponsor s website. Participation in any conference or symposium outside of the Licensee s Service Area may not be for the purpose of marketing or selling products or services. outside of the Licensee s Service Area about a topic that is not related to healthcare financing, administration, delivery, or policy, or to topics within the representative s functional discipline or expertise at the Licensee, the Licensee must notify BCBSA and receive prior approval from BCBSA before participating and entering into a corresponding operating agreement or agreements, in order to offer a debit card bearing the Licensed Marks and Name to eligible persons as defined by the aforementioned license agreement or a member of the Plan s or Controlled Affiliate s senior management as part of an established program of the third party for which the Plan has provided information to be considered for the recognition, provided that such use complies with regulations of general application specifically prescribed by BCBSA from time to time provided that such use complies with regulations of general application specifically prescribed by BCBSA from time to time assemblies or conventions of national political parties. Such events may not involve marketing or selling products or services. Use of the Brands outside the Licensee s Service Area in connection with such events shall be limited to materials and digital media provided to attendees and prospective attendees and onsite signage. For any such events in Washington, D.C. that are open to attendees other than government officials or their staffs, or are briefings open to all Congressional staff, or are otherwise likely to receive media coverage, the Licensee is required to provide advance notice to BCBSA. For events hosted outside of Washington, D.C. in conjunction with the assemblies or conventions of national political parties, the Licensee is required to provide advance notice to BCBSA and to the local Plan(s) 2.5 Knowledge Sharing a. submitting scholarly articles authored or co-authored by the Plan or Controlled Affiliate or its respective employees for publication in peer- b. permitting an internal representative of the Licensee (e.g., officer, employee) to speak or present at a conference or symposium outside of If the Licensee s representative wishes to use the Brands in any manner, including use in his her title, when participating as a speaker or presenter Page 10 of 14 2.6 Other Uses a. entering into a license agreement between and among BCBSA, the Plan and a debit card issuer located outside the Plan s Service Area, b. appearing in communications issued by an independent third party to recognize outstanding performance of the Plan or Controlled Affiliate c. to identify itself as being a joint sponsor of an event, program or activity along with other Plans or such Plans licensed Controlled Affiliates, d. hosting meetings or events (collectively, events ) in Washington, D.C. or a Plan s State Capitol related to policy and business issues in the Licensee s Service Area, or hosting events in conjunction with the Amended as of March 26, 2015 complies with regulations of general application specifically prescribed by BCBSA from time to time. Marks and Name pursuant to a Controlled Affiliate License Agreement authorized in clauses d) or e) of Paragraph 2 of the Plan s License Agreement with BCBSA may use the Licensed Marks and Name outside the Region (as that term is defined in such respective Controlled Affiliate License Agreements) in the following circumstances which are deemed legitimate and necessary and not likely to cause consumer confusion: promoting, selling or soliciting the sale of health care plans and related services) in the Region, provided that the Controlled Affiliate may not use the names of any of its Controlling Plans in connection with such contracting unless the provider is located in a geographic area that is also contiguous to such Controlling Plan s Service Area participating provider of the Controlled Affiliate, provided that the Controlled Affiliate may not use the names of any of its Controlling Plans on such signs unless the provider is located in a geographic area that is also contiguous to such Controlling Plan s Service Area Page 11 of 14 e. permitting an affiliate that is not licensed to use the Licensed Marks to identify its corporate relationship with the Plan, provided that such use 3. In connection with activity otherwise in furtherance of the License Agreement, a Controlled Affiliate that is licensed to use the Licensed a. sending letterhead, envelopes, and similar items solely for administrative purposes (e.g., not for purposes of marketing, advertising, b. distributing business cards other than in marketing and selling c. contracting with health care providers or soliciting such contracts in areas contiguous to the Region in order to serve its subscribers residing d. issuing a small sign containing the legal name or trade name of the Controlled Affiliate for display by a provider to identify the latter as a e. advertising in publications or electronic media solely to persons for employment Amended as of March 26, 2015 advertise outside its Region on the national broadcast and cable networks and that advertisements in national print media are limited to the smallest regional edition encompassing the Region, and provided further that any such advertising by the Controlled Affiliate may not reference the name of any of its Controlling Plans unless the respective Controlling Plan is authorized under paragraph 2 of this Exhibit 4 to advertise in such media Controlled Affiliate may not reference the name of any of its Controlling Plans unless the respective Controlling Plan is authorized under paragraph 2 of this Exhibit 4 to send direct mail to such zip code plus 4. Controlled Affiliates.] to provide self-administered prescription drugs to deliver a pharmacy benefit for the Controlled Affiliate s regional Medicare Advantage PPO or regional Medicare Part D Prescription Drug members enrolled under the Licensed Marks pursuant to such respective Controlled Affiliate License Agreements, provided, however, that the Pharmacy Intermediary may not use the Licensed Marks or Name in contracting with the pharmacy providers in such network self-administered prescription drugs to deliver a pharmacy benefit to the Controlled Affiliate s regional Medicare Advantage PPO or regional Medicare Part D Prescription Drug members enrolled under the Licensed Marks pursuant to such respective outside the Region, and (2) neither the Controlled Affiliate s name nor the Licensed Marks or Name may be posted or otherwise displayed at or by any pharmacy store outside the Region a routine dental benefit for the Controlled Affiliate s regional Medicare Advantage PPO members enrolled under the Licensed Marks pursuant to such Controlled Affiliate License Agreement, provided, however, that the Dental Intermediary may not use the Licensed Marks or Name in contracting with the dental providers in such network routine vision benefit for the Controlled Affiliate s regional Medicare Advantage members enrolled under the Licensed Marks pursuant to such Controlled Affiliate License Agreement, provided, however, that the Vision Intermediary may not use the Licensed Marks or Name in contracting with the vision providers in such network Page 12 of 14 f. advertising in print, electronic or other media which serve, as a substantial market, the Region, provided that the Controlled Affiliate may not g. advertising by direct mail where the addressee's zip code plus 4 includes, at least in part, the Region, provided that such advertising by the h. [Intentionally left blank, pending review by the Inter-Plan Programs Committee of the applicability of the case management rule to such i. contracting with a pharmacy management organization ( Pharmacy Intermediary ) to gain access to a national or regional pharmacy network j. contracting with the corporate owner of a national or regional retail pharmacy chain to gain access to the pharmacies in the chain to provide Page 13 of 14 Controlled Affiliate License Agreements, provided that (1) the Controlled Affiliate may not contract directly with pharmacists or pharmacy stores k. contracting with a dental management organization ( Dental Intermediary ) to gain access to a national or regional dental network to deliver l. contracting with a vision management organization ( Vision Intermediary ) to gain access to a national or regional vision network to deliver a m. contracting with an independent clinical laboratory for analysis and clinical assessment of specimens that are collected within the Controlled Amended as of March 26, 2015 Affiliate s Region medical equipment and supplies that are shipped to a location within the Controlled Affiliate s Region located within the Region (e.g., hospital, mobile van) that is within the Region the contract is solely for services rendered by health care professionals who are located within the Region. offering made to federal employees pursuant to the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP), including the right to license such use to its vendors, but only in the following manner. identifying the program as a benefit program for federal employees approval of the BCBSA Board of Directors. the Brands to, and file forms that contain the Brands with, state or local regulators in a state not included in its Service Area, provided that it gives reasonable advance notice to the local Plan of its intent to submit such documents or file such forms. Notwithstanding, in no event may a Plan or its licensed Controlled Affiliate use the Brands to register, or to obtain or maintain a license, a certificate of authority, or an equivalent document authorizing it to act as a risk-bearing entity or third party administrator in a state not included in its Service Area. If the local Plan advises BCBSA that it believes its License Agreement has been or would be violated by any submission or filing, BCBSA shall determine whether such submission or filing is required by state or local law or regulation and violates the License Agreement, subject to the Plan s or licensed Controlled Affiliate s rights to obtain an independent review of such determination under Paragraph 9(a) and Exhibit 5 of its License Agreement or Paragraph 8 of the Controlled Affiliate License. For purposes of this paragraph, local Plan is defined as each Plan whose Service Area includes all or part of the state in which the foregoing applicable state or local law or regulation has been enacted. n. contracting with a durable medical equipment or home medical equipment company for durable medical equipment and supplies and home o. contracting with a specialty pharmaceutical company for non- routine biological therapeutics that are ordered by a health care professional p. contracting with a company that operates provider sites in the Region, provided that the contract is solely for services rendered at a site Page 14 of 14 q. contracting with a company that makes health care professionals available in the Region (e.g., traveling home health nurse), provided that 4. BCBSA shall retain the right to use the Licensed Marks in conjunction with the Federal Employee Program and with any other national a. the Licensed Marks may only be used by BCBSA with the term Federal Employee Program , Federal , FEP , or similar language b. the Licensed Marks may not be used by BCBSA with the name(s) of a specific Plan or Plans and c. any use by BCBSA in conjunction with a new national FEHBP program proposed after the enactment of this amendment will require the 5. Where required by applicable state or local law or regulation, a Plan or its licensed Controlled Affiliate may submit documents that contain Cross and Blue Shield system is a unique nonprofit and for-profit system offering cost effective health care financing and services. The Plans and BCBSA desire to utilize Mediation and Mandatory Dispute Resolution ( MMDR ) to avoid expensive and time-consuming litigation that may otherwise occur in the federal and state judicial systems. Even MMDR should be viewed, however, as methods of last resort, all other procedures for dispute resolution having failed. Except as otherwise provided in the License Agreements, the Plans, their Controlled Affiliates and BCBSA agree to submit all disputes to MMDR pursuant to these Rules and in lieu of litigation. faith efforts with the other side(s) to try to resolve any dispute. BCBSA Corporate Secretary (which shall also constitute service on BCBSA if it is a respondent) and to any Plan(s) and or Controlled Affiliate(s) named therein. Page 1 of 23 MEDIATION AND MANDATORY DISPUTE RESOLUTION (MMDR) RULES The Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans ("Plans") and the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association ("BCBSA") recognize and acknowledge that the Blue 1. Initiation of Proceedings A. Pre-MMDR Efforts Before filing a Complaint to invoke the MMDR process, the CEO of a complaining party, or his her designated representative, shall undertake good B. Complaint To commence a proceeding, the complaining party (or parties) shall provide by certified mail, return receipt requested, a written Complaint to the The Complaint shall contain: i. identification of the complaining party (or parties) requesting the proceeding ii. identification of the respondent(s) iii. identification of any other persons or entities who are interested in a resolution of the dispute iv. a full statement describing the nature of the dispute v. identification of all of the issues that are being submitted for resolution Page 2 of 23 Amended as of November 21, 1996 Amended as of March 26, 2015 undertaken, to resolve the dispute before resorting to the MMDR process. Arbitration Hearing and a statement identifying the witnesses the party (or parties) intend(s) to present at the Hearing, along with a summary of each witness' expected testimony. Paragraph 1.B., above documents which the respondent(s) intend(s) to offer at the Arbitration Hearing and a statement identifying the witnesses the party (or parties) intend(s) to present at the Hearing, along with a summary of each witness' expected testimony. parties), a Reply to the Counterclaim. Such Reply must provide the same information required by Paragraph 1.C., above. Mediation under these Rules. Mediation may be pursued in lieu of or in an effort to obviate the Mandatory Dispute Resolution process, and all parties are strongly urged, but not required, to exhaust the mediation procedure provided for herein. In the event any party refuses to proceed with Mediation, the parties shall proceed immediately to Mandatory Dispute Resolution, as provided in Section 3. and (ii) the selection of experienced mediator(s) from an independent entity to mediate all disputes set forth in the Complaint and Answer (and Counterclaim and Reply, if any). In the event the parties are unable to agree upon the selection or number of mediators, both within five (5) days of the service of the Answer or Reply to Counterclaim, whichever is later, the BCBSA Corporate Secretary shall immediately refer the matter to a nationally recognized professional ADR organization (such as CPR or JAMS) for mediation by a single mediator to be selected by the ADR organization. vi. the remedy sought vii. a statement as to whether the complaining party (or parties) elect(s) first to pursue Mediation viii. any request, if applicable, that the matter be handled on an expedited basis and the reasons therefor and ix. a statement signed by the CEO of the complaining party affirming that the CEO has undertaken efforts, or has directed efforts to be The complaining party (or parties) shall file and serve with the Complaint copies of all documents which the party (or parties) intend(s) to offer at the Within twenty (20) days after receipt of the Complaint, each respondent shall serve on BCBSA and on the complaining party (or parties) i. a full Answer to the aforesaid Complaint ii. a statement of any Counterclaims against the complaining party (or parties), providing with respect thereto the information specified in iii. a statement as to whether the respondent elects to first pursue Mediation and iv. any request, if applicable, that the matter be handled on an expedited basis and the reasons therefor. The respondent(s) shall file and serve with the Answer or by the date of the Initial Conference set forth in Paragraph 3.C., below, copies of all Page 3 of 23 D. Reply To Counterclaim Within ten (10) days after receipt of any Counterclaim, the complaining party (or parties) shall serve on BCBSA and on the responding party (or 2. Mediation To facilitate the mediation of disputes between or among BCBSA, the Plans and or their Controlled Affiliates, the BCBSA Board has provided for A. Selection of Mediators If all parties agree to pursue Mediation, they shall promptly attempt to agree upon: (i) the number of mediators desired, not to exceed three mediators B. Binding Decision Amended as of September 20, 2007 by any recommendation of the selected mediator(s) for resolution of the disputes. If all wish to be bound, the Corporate Secretary will send appropriate documentation to them for their signatures before the Mediation Hearing begins. affiliated) and shall promptly advise the parties of a scheduled Mediation Hearing date. Unless a party requests an expedited procedure, or unless all parties to the proceeding agree to one or more extensions of time, the Mediation Hearing set forth below shall be completed within forty (40) days of BCBSA's receipt of the Complaint. The selected mediator(s), unless the parties otherwise agree, shall adhere to the following procedure: parties may send additional representatives as they see fit. parties. The parties are free to structure their presentations as they see fit, using oral statements or direct examination of witnesses. However, neither cross- examination nor questioning of opposing representatives will be permitted. At the close of each presentation, the selected mediator(s) will be given an opportunity to ask questions of the presenters and witnesses. All parties must be present throughout the Mediation Hearing. The selected mediator(s) may extend the time allowed for each party's presentation at the Mediation Hearing. The selected mediator(s) may meet in executive session, outside the mediator(s), or any one or more of the selected mediators, will sit in on the negotiations. Before the Mediation Hearing described below, the BCBSA Corporate Secretary shall contact the parties to determine whether they wish to be bound Page 4 of 23 C. Mediation Procedure The Mediator(s) shall apply the mediation procedures and processes provided for herein (not the rules of the ADR organization with which they are i. Each party must be represented by its CEO or other representative who has been delegated full authority to resolve the dispute. However, ii. Each party will be given one-half hour to present its case, beginning with the complaining party (or parties), followed by the other party or presence of the parties, or may meet with the parties separately, to discuss the controversy. iii. After the close of the presentations, the parties will attempt to negotiate a settlement of the dispute. If the parties desire, the selected Amended as of September 20, 2007 dispute which would be submitted to the parties for their consideration and approval. If the parties have previously agreed to be bound by the results of this procedure, this recommendation shall be binding upon the parties. Mediation Hearing has been designed to be as informal as possible. Rules of evidence shall not apply. There will be no transcript of the proceedings, and no party may make a tape recording of the Mediation Hearing. prohibits future use of settlement offers, all position papers or other statements furnished to the selected mediator(s), and decisions or recommendations in any Mediation proceeding shall be executed by each party. proceedings. selected mediator(s), or if the Mediation does not result in a final resolution of all disputes at the Mediation Hearing or within ten (10) days after the Mediation Hearing, any party or any one of the selected mediators shall so notify the BCBSA Corporate Secretary, who shall promptly issue a Notice of Termination of Mediation to all parties, to the selected mediator(s), and to the MDR Administrator. Such notice shall serve to bring the Mediation to an end and to initiate Mandatory Dispute Resolution. Upon agreement of all parties and the mediator(s), the Mediation process may continue at the same time the MDR process is invoked. In such case, the Notice of Termination of Mediation described above serves to initiate the MDR proceeding, but does not terminate mediation proceedings, which may proceed simultaneous with the MDR proceeding. unresolved disputes set forth in any Complaint and Answer (and Counterclaim and Reply, if any) shall be subject to mandatory binding arbitration (herein referred to as MDR ). alternative dispute resolution. In the event the parties pursued Mediation with CPR, JAMS or a similar organization, that organization also shall serve as the MDR Administrator, unless all parties notify the BCBSA Corporate Secretary in writing within two (2) days of receiving the Notice of Termination of Mediation that they wish to pursue MDR with another nationally recognized organization serving as MDR Administrator. of arbitrators, or (iii) all parties that pursued Mediation notified the BCBSA Corporate Secretary that they wish to have an MDR Administrator that is different Page 5 of 23 iv. After the close of the presentations, the selected mediator(s) may meet privately to agree upon a recommendation for resolution of the v. The purpose of the Mediation Hearing is to assist the parties to settle their grievances short of mandatory dispute resolution. As a result, the vi. In order to facilitate a free and open discussion, the Mediation proceeding shall remain confidential. A "Stipulation to Confidentiality" which vii. Upon request of the selected mediator(s), or one of the parties, BCBSA staff may also submit documentation at any time during the D. Notice of Termination of Mediation If the Mediation cannot be completed within the prescribed or agreed time period due to the lack of cooperation of any party, as determined by the Page 6 of 23 3. Mandatory Dispute Resolution (MDR) If any party elects not to first pursue Mediation, or if a Notice of Termination of Mediation is issued as set forth in Paragraph 2.D., above, then the A. MDR Administrator The Administrator for purposes of Mandatory Arbitration shall be an independent nationally recognized entity such as CPR or JAMS, specializing in In the event the parties (i) did not pursue Mediation, (ii) pursued mediation with a Mediator not affiliated with an ADR organization that offers a panel Amended as of September 20, 2007 Amended as of September 20, 2007 from the organization with which their mediator was affiliated, they shall promptly attempt to agree on a nationally recognized ADR entity that supplies a panel of arbitrators. If they reach such agreement within five (5) days of the Notice of Termination of Mediation or receipt of the Answer or Reply to Counterclaim (whichever is later), the parties shall promptly inform the BCBSA Corporate Secretary of their agreed upon ADR organization. In the event the parties are unable to reach agreement on an MDR Administrator within that timeframe, the BCBSA Corporate Secretary shall immediately refer the matter to CPR, JAMS or a similar organization for MDR. Administrator organization shall not apply. days after the time for filing and serving the Answer or Reply to any Counterclaim (whichever is later) if the parties elect first not to mediate, the parties shall confer with the Administrator to discuss selecting a dispute resolution panel ("the Panel"). This conference (the Initial Conference ) may be by telephone. The parties are encouraged to agree to the composition of the Panel and to present that agreement to the Administrator at the Initial Conference. If the parties do not agree on the composition of the Panel by the time of the Initial Conference, or by any extension thereof agreed to by all parties and the Administrator, then the Panel Selection Process set forth in subparagraph D, below, shall be followed. designee for cause and the Administrator shall determine the sufficiency thereof in its sole discretion. The Administrator will designate a replacement for any designee so stricken. Each party shall then be permitted one peremptory strike from the list of designees. The Administrator shall set the dates for exercising all strikes, which shall be set to encourage the prompt selection of arbitrators. the remaining panel members in order of preference and provide the Administrator, without serving on any other party, their ranked list. The Administrator shall not disclose any party s ranked list to members of the panel or to other parties. provided by the parties on their ranked lists, the Administrator shall select athree member Panel. The Panel Selection Process shall be completed no later than ten (10) days after the Initial Conference. promptly fixed by the Administrator for all time spent in connection with the proceedings and shall be reimbursed for any travel and other reasonable expenses. Any person who served as a Mediator shall not serve as an arbitrator for the same or similar dispute for purposes of MDR. B. Rules for MDR The rules controlling all aspects of MDR shall be exclusively those provided for herein. The rules promulgated or otherwise used by the MDR Page 7 of 23 C. Initial Conference Within seven (7) days after a Notice of Termination has issued or the matter has otherwise been referred to an MDR Administrator, or within five (5) D. Panel Selection Process The Administrator shall designate, prior to the Initial Conference, at least seven potential arbitrators. Each party shall be permitted to strike any After the parties exercise any designee strikes for cause and their peremptory strike against any designee of their choice, the parties shall each rank From the remaining designees, and after considering opportunities to maximize, so far as possible, the collectively stated arbitrator preferences Each Arbitrator shall be compensated at his or her normal hourly rate or, in the absence of an established rate, at a reasonable hourly rate to be Amended as of September 20, 2007 or other action of said Presiding Arbitrator. Each Arbitrator shall be an independent Arbitrator, shall be governed by the Code of Ethics for Arbitrators in Commercial Disputes and shall at or prior to the commencement of any Arbitration Hearing take an oath to that effect. Each Arbitrator shall promptly disclose in writing to the Panel and to the parties any circumstances, whenever arising, that might cause doubt as to such Arbitrator's compliance, or ability to comply, with said Code of Ethics, and, absent resignation by such Arbitrator, the remaining Arbitrators shall determine in their sole discretion whether the circumstances so disclosed constitute grounds for disqualification and for replacement. With respect to such circumstances arising or coming to the attention of a party after an Arbitrator's selection, a party may likewise request the Arbitrator's resignation or a determination as to disqualification by the remaining Arbitrators. With respect to a sole Arbitrator, the determination as to disqualification shall be made by the Administrator. those disputes excepted from these MMDR procedures as set forth in the License Agreements. disputes, including monetary awards and injunctions, mandatory or prohibitory. The Panel has no authority to award punitive or treble damages except that the Panel may allocate or assess responsibility for punitive or treble damages assessed by another tribunal. Subject to the above limitations, the Panel may, by way of example, but not of limitation: relating to the use of the BLUE CROSS or BLUE SHIELD service marks. Plan or a Controlled Affiliate relating to the use of the BLUE CROSS or BLUE SHIELD service marks. Page 8 of 23 E. Duties Of The Arbitrators The Panel shall promptly designate a Presiding Arbitrator for the purposes reflected below, but shall retain the power to review and modify any ruling There shall be no ex parte communication between the parties or their counsel and any member of the Panel. F. Panel's Jurisdiction And Authority The Panel's jurisdiction and authority shall extend to all disputes between or among the Plans, their Controlled Affiliates, and or BCBSA, except for With the exception of punitive or treble damages, the Panel shall have full authority to award the relief it deems appropriate to resolve the parties' Page 9 of 23 i. interpret or construe the meaning of any terms, phrase or provision in any license between BCBSA and a Plan or a Controlled Affiliate ii. determine whether BCBSA, a Plan or a Controlled Affiliate has violated the terms or conditions of any license between the BCBSA and a iii. decide challenges as to its own jurisdiction. iv. issue such orders for interim relief as it deems appropriate pending Hearing and Award in any Arbitration. Amended as of September 20, 2007 Amended as of September 20, 2007 the continued integrity of the Licensed Marks and the BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD system. The Panel shall apply federal law to all issues which, if asserted in the United States District Court, would give rise to federal question jurisdiction, 28 U.S.C. 1331. The Panel shall apply Illinois law to all issues involving interpretation, performance or construction of any License Agreement or Controlled Affiliate License Agreement unless the agreement otherwise provides. As to other issues, the Panel shall choose the applicable law based on conflicts of law principles of the State of Illinois. schedule, in writing, a conference in which the parties and the Panel shall participate (the Administrative Conference ). The Administrative Conference shall take place no later than fifteen (15) days after the Panel is selected. At the Administrative Conference the parties and the Panel shall discuss the scheduling of the Arbitration Hearing and any other matter appropriate to be considered, including but not limited to: any written discovery in the form of requests for production of documents or requests to admit facts the identity of any witness whose deposition a party may desire and a showing of exceptional good cause for the taking of any such deposition the desirability of bifurcation or other separation of the issues the need for and the type of record of conferences and hearings, including the need for transcripts the need for expert witnesses and stipulations the desirability of presenting any direct testimony in writing and the necessity for any on-site inspection by the Panel. If the parties agree, the Administrative Conference may be by telephone. date of the Initial Conference. Within twenty (20) days after receipt of a request for production of documents, a party shall (a) serve responses and objections to the request, grounds of attorney-client privilege or work product, produce a log identifying such documents in the manner specified in Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(5). If, after reviewing a privilege log, the requesting party believes attorney-client privilege or work product protection was improperly claimed by the producing party with respect to any document, the requesting party may ask the Presiding Arbitrator to conduct an in-camera inspection of the same. With respect to documentary and other discovery produced in any MDR proceeding by BCBSA, the fact that a party s CEO or other senior officers may serve on the BCBSA Board of Directors, BCBSA Board Committees or other BCBSA work groups, task forces and the like, shall not be a basis for defeating an otherwise valid claim of attorney-client privilege or work product protection over such documentary or other discovery materials by BCBSA. Presiding Arbitrator. A party served with Requests For Admissions must respond within twenty (20) days of receipt of said request. The good faith use of and response to Requests for Admissions is encouraged, and the Panel shall have full discretion, with reference to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, in awarding appropriate sanctions with respect to abuse of the procedure. It is understood that the Panel is expected to resolve issues based on governing principles of law, preserving to the maximum extent legally possible G. Administrative Conference Within five (5) days of the Panel being selected, the Presiding Arbitrator shall confer with the parties and the other members of the Panel and shall Page 10 of 23 how expert testimony should be presented the appropriateness of motions to dismiss and or for full or partial summary judgment consideration of H. Discovery i. Requests for Production of Documents: All requests for the production of documents must be served no later than five (5) days after the (b) produce all responsive, non-privileged documents to the requesting party, and (c) to the extent any responsive documents are withheld on the ii. Requests for Admissions: Requests for Admissions may be served up to twenty-one (21) days prior to the discovery cut-off set by the Amended as of September 20, 2007 Presiding Arbitrator, in his or her sole discretion, shall have the authority to permit a party to take such deposition testimony upon a showing of exceptional good cause. The parties will be permitted to take de bene esse deposition1 testimony to the fullest extent permitted by law of any witness who cannot be compelled to testify at the Arbitration Hearing. No deposition, for discovery purposes or otherwise, shall exceed three (3) hours, excluding objections and colloquy of counsel. Depositions may be recorded in any manner recognized by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and the parties shall specify in each notice of deposition or request for permission to take deposition testimony the manner in which such deposition shall be recorded. with a written statement setting forth the information required to be provided by Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(a)(2) during the Arbitration Hearing, it shall provide all other parties with a written statement setting forth the information required to be provided by Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(a)(2)(B) within twenty (20) days after the date on which the written statement of the expert witness whose testimony is to be rebutted was produced. not exceed thirty (30) days from the date of the Administrative Conference without the agreement of all parties. reading part or all of the deposition transcript into the record at the Arbitration Hearing, to the extent permitted by the Panel, because the witness cannot be compelled to testify at the Arbitration Hearing or has exercised a right provided under these Rules to provide deposition testimony in lieu of testimony at the Arbitration Hearing. Page 11 of 23 iii. Depositions: As a general rule, the parties will not be permitted to take party or non-party deposition testimony for discovery purposes. The iv. Expert witness(es): If a party intends to present the testimony of an expert witness during the oral hearing, it shall provide all other parties (B) ten (10) days prior to the discovery cut-off set by the Presiding Arbitrator. If a party intends to present the testimony of a rebuttal expert witness v. Discovery cut-off: The Presiding Arbitrator shall determine the date on which the discovery period will end, but the discovery period shall 1 As used in these Rules, "de bene esse deposition" means a deposition that is not taken for discovery purposes, but is taken for the purpose of Page 12 of 23 vi. Additional discovery: Any additional discovery will be at the discretion of the Presiding Arbitrator. Amended as of September 20, 2007 Amended as of September 20, 2007 disputes, and whose resolution will be binding on the parties unless modified by the Arbitration Panel. Prior to raising any discovery dispute with the Presiding Arbitrator, the parties shall meet and confer, telephonically or in person, in an attempt to resolve or narrow the dispute. If a party refuses to comply with a decision resolving a discovery dispute, the Panel, in keeping with Fed. R. Civ. P. 37, may refuse to allow that party to support or oppose designated claims or defenses, prohibit that party from introducing designated matters into evidence or, in extreme cases, decide an issue submitted for resolution adversely to that party. shown. Any request for such an extension shall be made in writing. that they do so at or before the conclusion of the Arbitration Hearing, and the Panel shall give such assistance in settlement negotiations as the parties may request and the Panel may deem appropriate. Alternatively, the Panel may direct the parties to endeavor to mediate their disputes as provided above, or to explore a mini-trial proceeding, or to have an independent party render a neutral evaluation of the parties respective positions. The Panel shall enter such sanctions as it deems appropriate with respect to any party failing to pursue in good faith such Mediation or other alternate dispute resolution methods. issuance of a subpoena on any third party, including but not limited to any third party Blue Plan or any officer, employee or director of a third party Blue Plan, to compel deposition testimony or the production of documents, and, if good and sufficient cause is shown, the Panel shall issue such a subpoena. close of discovery, unless all parties and the Panel agree to extend the Arbitration Hearing date, or unless the parties agree in writing to waive the Arbitration Hearing. The parties may mutually agree on the location of the Arbitration Hearing. If the parties fail to agree, the Arbitration Hearing shall be held in Chicago, Illinois, or at such other location determined by the Presiding Arbitrator to be most convenient to the participants. The Panel will determine the date(s) and time(s) of the Arbitration Hearing(s) after consultation with all parties and shall provide reasonable notice thereof to all parties or their representatives. Memorandum which sets forth the applicable law and any argument as to any relevant issue. The Arbitration Hearing Memorandum will supplement, and not repeat, the allegations, information and documents contained in or with the Complaint, Answer, Counterclaim and Reply, if any. Ten (10) days prior to the Arbitration Hearing, each party shall submit to each other party a list of all expert and fact witnesses (but not including rebuttal fact witness) that such party intends to have testify at the Arbitration Hearing and a brief summary of the testimony each such witness is expected to give. In addition, no later than five (5) days prior to the Arbitration, each party may submit to each other party and to the Panel a Response Arbitration Hearing Memorandum which sets forth any response to another party's Arbitration Hearing Memorandum. vii. Discovery Disputes: Any discovery disputes shall be raised by motion to the Presiding Arbitrator, who is authorized to resolve all such viii. Extensions: The time for responding to discovery requests may be extended by the Presiding Arbitrator for good and sufficient cause I. Panel Suggested Settlement Mediation At any point during the proceedings, the Panel at the request of any party or on its own initiative, may suggest that the parties explore settlement and Page 13 of 23 J. Subpoenas on Third Parties Pursuant to, and consistent with, the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. 9 et seq., and subject to Paragraph 3.G(iii) above, a party may request the K. Arbitration Hearing An Arbitration Hearing will be held within thirty (30) days after the Administrative Conference if no discovery is taken, or within thirty (30) days after the L. Arbitration Hearing Memoranda Twenty (20) days prior to the Arbitration Hearing, each party shall submit to the other party (or parties) and to the Panel an Arbitration Hearing Amended as of September 20, 2007 Hearing of any officer, employee or director of the other party (or parties) for the purpose of providing noncumulative testimony. If a party fails to produce one of its officers, employees or directors whose noncumulative testimony during the Arbitration Hearing is reasonably requested by an adverse party, the Panel may refuse to allow that party to support or oppose designated claims or defenses, prohibit that party from introducing designated matters into evidence or, in extreme cases, decide an issue submitted for mandatory dispute resolution adversely to that party provided, however, that a party may refuse to produce a director to testify if, within two (2) days of receiving a notice requesting the attendance of such director at the Arbitration Hearing, the party agrees to make the director available for a de bene esse deposition at a mutually convenient time at any location within fifty (50) miles of the director s primary residence chosen by the party requesting the director s testimony. This Rule may not be used for the purpose of burdening or harassing any party, and the Presiding Arbitrator may impose such orders as are appropriate so as to prevent or remedy any such burden or harassment. may request the issuance of a subpoena on any third party, including but not limited to any third party Blue Plan, BCBSA or any officer, employee or director of a third party Blue Plan or BCBSA for the purpose of providing noncummulative testimony at the Arbitration Hearing, and, if good and sufficient cause is shown, the Panel shall issue such a subpoena provided however, that a director of a third party Blue Plan or BCBSA may refuse to testify if, within two (2) days of receiving a subpoena requesting the attendance of such director at the Arbitration Hearing, the director agrees to make him herself available for a de bene esse deposition at a mutually convenient time at any location within fifty behalf and on behalf of its directors and officers, any objection it otherwise might have to any such subpoena based on service, venue or extraterritoriality. Page 14 of 23 M. Notice For Testimony Ten (10) days prior to the Arbitration Hearing, any party may serve a Notice on any other party (or parties) requesting the attendance at the Arbitration Pursuant to, and consistent with, the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. 9 et seq., twenty (20) days or more prior to the Arbitration Hearing, a party (50) miles of the director s primary residence chosen by the party requesting the director s testimony. Each Blue Plan agrees to waive, on its own Amended as of September 20, 2007 Presiding Arbitrator shall otherwise have the power to require the exclusion of any witness, other than a party or other essential person, during the testimony of any other witness. It shall be discretionary with the Presiding Arbitrator to determine the propriety of the attendance of any other person. Arbitration Hearing and any discovery or other proceedings or events related thereto, including any award resulting therefrom, as confidential except as otherwise necessary in connection with a judicial challenge to or enforcement of an award or unless otherwise required by law. Arbitration Hearing or portion thereof. The costs of the recording and or of preparing the transcript shall be borne by the requesting party and by any party who receives a copy thereof. If the Panel requests a recording and or a transcript, the costs thereof shall be borne equally by the parties. any party, shall do so. Hearing, and the presence of the Panel, the parties, and their representatives, if any. The Panel may, at the beginning of the Arbitration Hearing, ask for statements clarifying the issues involved. evidence supporting their defenses and Counterclaims, if any. The complaining party (or parties) shall then present evidence supporting defenses to the Counterclaims, if any, and rebuttal. and relevant evidence. may deem necessary to an understanding and resolution of the dispute. Unless good cause is shown, as determined by the Panel or agreed to by all other parties, no party shall be permitted to offer evidence at the Arbitration Hearing which was not disclosed prior to the Arbitration Hearing by that party. The Panel may receive and consider the evidence of witnesses by affidavit upon such terms as the Panel deems appropriate. Page 15 of 23 N. Arbitration Hearing Procedures i. Attendance at Arbitration Hearing: Any person having a direct interest in the proceeding is entitled to attend the Arbitration Hearing. The ii. Confidentiality: The Panel and all parties shall maintain the privacy of the Arbitration Proceeding. The parties and the Panel shall treat the iii. Stenographic Record: Any party, or if the parties do not object, the Panel, may request that a stenographic or other record be made of any iv. Oaths: The Panel may require witnesses to testify under oath or affirmation administered by any duly qualified person and, if requested by v. Order of Arbitration Hearing: An Arbitration Hearing shall be opened by the recording of the date, time, and place of the Arbitration Page 16 of 23 Unless otherwise agreed, the complaining party (or parties) shall then present evidence to support their claim(s). The respondent(s) shall then present Witnesses for each party shall submit to questions by adverse parties and or the Panel. The Panel has the discretion to vary these procedures, but shall afford a full and equal opportunity to all parties for the presentation of any material vi. Evidence: The parties may offer such evidence as is relevant and material to the dispute and shall produce such evidence as the Panel Amended as of September 20, 2007 Amended as of September 20, 2007 enforcement of the attorney-client privilege and the work product protection, shall not be necessary. The Federal Rules of Evidence shall be considered by the Panel in conducting the Arbitration Hearing but those rules shall not be controlling. All evidence shall be taken in the presence of the Panel and all of the parties, except where any party is in default or has waived the right to be present. party's position papers or statements furnished to the selected mediators shall not be admissible evidence or considered by the Panel without the consent of all parties. offer or witnesses to be heard. Upon receiving negative replies or if he or she is satisfied that the record is complete, the Presiding Arbitrator shall declare the Arbitration Hearing closed with an appropriate notation made on the record. Subject to being reopened as provided below, the time within which the Panel is required to make the award shall commence to run, in the absence of contrary agreement by the parties, upon the closing of the Arbitration Hearing. after the presentation of proofs in order to permit the parties to submit post-hearing briefs and argument, as the Panel deems appropriate, prior to making an award. before the award is made thirty (30) days from the date of closing the Arbitration Hearing. If all parties so request, the Award shall contain findings of fact and conclusions of law. The Award, and all other rulings and determinations by the Panel, may be by a majority vote. at its last known address or personal service of the Award on a party or its representative. precedent in any other proceeding. The Panel shall be the judge of the relevance and materiality of the evidence offered, and conformity to legal rules of evidence, other than Settlement offers by any party in connection with Mediation or MDR proceedings, decisions or recommendations of the selected mediators, and a Page 17 of 23 vii. Closing of Arbitration Hearing: The Presiding Arbitrator shall specifically inquire of all parties whether they have any further proofs to With respect to complex disputes, the Panel may, in its sole discretion, defer the closing of the Arbitration Hearing for a period of up to thirty (30) days For good cause, the Arbitration Hearing may be reopened for up to thirty (30) days on the Panel's initiative, or upon application of a party, at any time An Award must be in writing and shall be made promptly by the Panel and, unless otherwise agreed by the parties or specified by law, no later than Parties shall accept as legal delivery of the Award the placing of the Award or a true copy thereof in the mail addressed to a party or its representative Awards are binding only on the parties to the Arbitration and are not binding on any non-parties to the Arbitration and may not be used or cited as shall undertake to carry out the Award without delay. documents produced by any other party, including all copies thereof. If a party receives a discovery request in any other proceeding which would require it to produce any documents produced to it by any other party in a proceeding hereunder, it shall not produce such documents without first notifying the producing party and giving said party reasonable time to respond, if appropriate, to the discovery request. Mediators, and to all other parties at any time. The Chairman of the Mediation Committee, or at his or her direction, the then selected Mediators, shall grant any request which is supported by good and sufficient reasons. If such a request is granted, the Mediation shall be completed within as short a period as practicable, as determined by the Chairman of the Mediation Committee or, at his or her direction, the then selected Mediators. Administrator, or the Presiding Arbitrator if the Panel has been selected, shall grant any such request which is supported by good and sufficient reasons. If such a request is granted, the Arbitration shall be completed within as short a time as practicable, as determined by the Administrator and or the Presiding Arbitrator. Page 18 of 23 After the expiration of twenty (20) days from initial delivery, the Award (with corrections, if any) shall be final and binding on the parties, and the parties Proceedings to confirm, modify or vacate an Award shall be conducted in conformity with and controlled by the Federal Arbitration Act. 9 U.S.C. 1, P. Return of Documents Within sixty (60) days after the Award and the conclusion of any judicial proceedings with respect thereto, each party and the Panel shall return any 4. Miscellaneous A. Expedited Procedures Any party to a Mediation may direct a request for an expedited Mediation Hearing to the Chairman of the Mediation Committee, to the selected Any party to an Arbitration may direct a request for expedited proceedings to the Administrator, to the Panel, and to all other parties at any time. The Page 19 of 23 B. Temporary or Preliminary Injunctive Relief Amended as of September 20, 2007 Amended as of September 20, 2007 time that an Arbitration Panel has been selected, then the Administrator shall select a single Arbitrator who is a lawyer who has no interest in the subject matter of the dispute, and no connection to any of the parties, to hear and determine the request for temporary or preliminary injunction. If such relief is sought after the time that an Arbitration Panel has been selected, then the Arbitration Panel will hear and determine the request. The request for temporary or preliminary injunctive relief will be determined with reference to the temporary or preliminary injunction standards set forth in Fed. R. Civ. P. 65. and, if the party does not comply within said period, the Panel may enter an Order of default or afford such other relief as it deems appropriate. extension. An Award shall not be made solely on the default or absence of a party, but the Panel shall require the party who is present to submit such evidence as the Panel may require for the making of findings, determinations, conclusions, and Awards. proceeding under these rules or for any court action in connection therewith may be served on a party by mail addressed to the party or its representative at its last known address or by personal service, in or outside the state where the MDR proceeding is to be held. give the notices required by these rules. including compensation, required travel and other reasonable expenses of the Panel, and the cost of any proof produced at the direct request of the Panel, shall be borne equally by the parties and shall be paid periodically on a timely basis, unless they agree otherwise or unless the Panel in the Award assesses such expenses, or any part thereof against any party (or parties). In exceptional cases, the Panel may award reasonable attorneys' fees as an item of expense, and the Panel shall promptly determine the amount of such fees based on affidavits or such other proofs as the Panel deems sufficient. discharge his or her duties after the commencement of MDR but prior to the rendition of an Award, and the parties are unable to agree upon a replacement, the remaining Panel member(s): agree, as an alternative to the recommencement of the Mandatory Dispute Resolution process, to resolution of the dispute by the remaining Panel members. commencement of MDR but prior to the rendition of an Award, and the parties are unable to agree upon a replacement, the Administrator shall appoint a successor, subject to the right of any party to challenge such successor for cause, and the successor shall decide the extent to which previously held proceedings shall be repeated. Any party may seek temporary or preliminary injunctive relief with the filing of a Complaint or at any time thereafter. If such relief is sought prior to the C. Defaults and Proceedings in the Absence of a Party Whenever a party fails to comply with the MDR Rules in a manner deemed material by the Panel, the Panel shall fix a reasonable time for compliance Arbitration may proceed in the event of a default or in the absence of any party who, after due notice, fails to be present or fails to obtain an Each party shall be deemed to have consented that any papers, notices, or process necessary or proper for the initiation or continuation of a The Corporate Secretary and the parties may also use facsimile transmission, telex, telegram, or other written forms of electronic communication to Page 20 of 23 E. Expenses The expenses of witnesses shall be paid by the party causing or requesting the appearance of such witnesses. All expenses of the MDR proceeding, F. Disqualification or Disability of A Panel Member In the event that any Arbitrator of a Panel with more than one Arbitrator should become disqualified, resign, die, or refuse or be unable to perform or i. shall designate a replacement, subject to the right of any party to challenge such replacement for cause. ii. shall decide the extent to which previously held hearings shall be repeated. If the remaining Panel members consider the proceedings to have progressed to a stage as to make replacement impracticable, the parties may In the event that a single Arbitrator should become disqualified, resign, die, or refuse or be unable to perform or discharge his or her duties after the of: (1) the Mediator if the proceeding is then in Mediation (2) the Administrator if the proceeding is in Arbitration, but no Arbitration Panel has been selected or (3) the Arbitration Panel, if the proceeding is in Arbitration and the Arbitration Panel has been selected. to intervene in any pending Arbitration. A written motion for intervention shall be made to: (1) the Administrator, if the proceeding is in Arbitration, but no Arbitration Panel has been selected or (2) the Arbitration Panel, if the proceeding is in Arbitration and the Arbitration Panel has been selected. The written motion for intervention shall be delivered to the BCBSA Corporate Secretary (which shall also constitute service on the BCBSA if it is a respondent) and to any Plan(s) and or Controlled Affiliate(s) which are parties to the proceeding. Any party to the proceeding can submit written objections to the motion to intervene. The motion for intervention shall be granted upon good cause shown. Intervention also may be allowed by stipulation of the parties to the Arbitration proceeding. Intervention shall be allowed upon such terms as the Arbitration Panel decides. Page 21 of 23 G. Extensions of Time Subject to the provisions of Paragraph 3.H.(viii.), any time limit set forth in these Rules may be extended upon agreement of the parties and approval H. Intervention The Plans, their Controlled Affiliates, and BCBSA, to the extent subject to MMDR pursuant to their License Agreements, shall have the right to move I. BCBSA Assistance in Resolution of Disputes The resources and personnel of the BCBSA may be requested by any member Plan at any time to try to resolve disputes with another Plan. J. Neutral Evaluation The parties can voluntarily agree at any time to have an independent party render a neutral evaluation of the parties respective positions. Amended as of September 20, 2007 sections only hereinafter referred to collectively and individually as a Party ) that initiates a court action or administrative proceeding solely to compel adherence to these Rules shall not be determined to have violated these Rules by initiating such action or proceeding. adherence to these Rules and or reasonable attorneys fees, expenses and costs incurred in responding to an action filed in violation of these Rules provided, however, that neither fees, expenses, nor costs shall be awarded by the Arbitration Panel if the Party from which the award is sought can demonstrate to the Arbitration panel, in its sole discretion, that it did not violate these Rules or that it had reasonable grounds for believing that its action did not violate these Rules. Arbitration Panel at any time before an award is delivered pursuant Paragraph to 3.O above with a copy to the Party from which reimbursement is sought, explaining why it is entitled to such reimbursement. The Party from which reimbursement is sought shall have twenty (20) days to submit a response to such request to the Arbitration Panel with a copy to the Party seeking reimbursement. to run shall not be included. The last day of the period so computed shall be included, unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of the aforementioned days. When the period of time prescribed is less than six (6) days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation. As used in this rule, legal holiday includes New Year s Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Washington s Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and any other day appointed as a holiday by the President or the Congress of the United States. Page 22 of 23 K. Recovery of Attorney Fees and Expenses i. Motions to Compel Nothwithstanding any other provisions of these Rules, any Party subject to the License Agreements (for purposes of this Section K and all of its sub- ii. Recovery of Fees, Expenses and Costs The Arbitration Panel may, in its sole discretion, award a Party its reasonable attorneys fees, expenses and costs associated with a filing to compel iii. Requests for Reimbursement For purposes of this Section K, any Party may request reimbursement of fees, expenses and or costs by submitting said request in writing to the Page 23 of 23 L. Calculation of Time and Deadlines In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed under these rules, the day of the act or event from which the designated period of time begins Amended as of September 20, 2007 Amended as of September 20, 2007 BLUE SHIELD Design service marks (collectively the "Licensed Marks") for health care plans in its service area, which was essentially local in nature among Plans, facilitating the provision of cost effective health care services to the public and otherwise benefiting the public Collective Service Mark "Blue Shield" and continued integrity of the Licensed Marks and of the BLUE SHIELD system valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows: This agreement by and between Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ("BCBSA") and The Blue Shield Plan, known as (the WHEREAS, the Plan and or its predecessor(s) in interest (collectively the "Plan") had the right to use the BLUE SHIELD and WHEREAS, the Plan was desirous of assuring nationwide protection of the Licensed Marks, maintaining uniform quality controls WHEREAS, to better attain such ends, the Plan and the predecessor of BCBSA executed the Agreement(s) Relating to the WHEREAS, BCBSA and the Plan desire to supercede said Agreement(s) to reflect their current practices and to assure the NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements hereinafter set forth and for other good and (Includes revisions, if any, adopted by Member Plans through their November 21, 2019 meeting) BLUE SHIELD LICENSE AGREEMENT Exhibit 10.12 License Agreement ), the right to use BLUE SHIELD in its trade and or corporate name (the "Licensed Name"), and the right to use the Licensed Marks, in the sale, marketing and administration of health care plans and related services in the Service Area set forth and defined in paragraph 5 below. As used herein, health care plans and related services shall include acting as a nonprofit health care plan, a for-profit health care plan, or mutual health insurer operating on a not-for-profit or for-profit basis, under state law financing access to health care services when working with a bank that holds the relevant license to use the Licensed Name and Marks, offering: (i) tax- favored savings accounts for medical expenses and means for accessing such accounts, such as debit cards or checks, that are provided solely to support access to such tax-favored savings accounts, all pursuant to such license, or (ii) prepaid rewards cards that are provided for completion of a wellness program, all pursuant to such license providing health care management and administration administering, but not underwriting, non-health portions of Workers Compensation Insurance delivering health care services, except hospital services (as defined in the Guidelines to Membership Standards Applicable to Regular Members) and performing the Eligibility and Enrollment functions of HR administration for all benefit plans offered by a group account to its members, including benefit plans not provided by the Plan, provided that the Plan has contracted to provide Health Coverage under the Licensed Marks to the account (as the terms Health Coverage , Eligibility and Enrollment are defined in Exhibit 4, Paragraph 2.t.). services in the Service Area through Controlled Affiliates, provided that each such Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name under the terms and conditions contained in the Agreement attached as Exhibit 1 hereto (the "Controlled Affiliate License Agreement") and ii) insurance coverages offered by life insurers under the applicable law in the Service Area, other than those which the Plan may offer in its own name, provided through Controlled Affiliates, provided that each such Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name under the terms and conditions contained in the Agreement attached as Exhibit 1A hereto (the "Controlled Affiliate License Agreement Applicable to Life Insurance Companies") or the Agreement attached as Exhibit 1A1 hereto (the Controlled Affiliate Trademark License Agreement for Life and Disability Insurance Products ) and further provided that the offering of such services does not and will not dilute or tarnish the unique value of the Licensed Marks and Name and iii) administration and underwriting of Workers Compensation Insurance Controlled Affiliates, provided that each such Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name under the terms and conditions contained in the Agreement attached as Exhibit 1 hereto (the Controlled Affiliate License ) and iv) regional Medicare Advantage PPO Products in cooperation with one or more other Plans through jointly-held Controlled Affiliates, provided that each such Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name under the terms and conditions contained in the Agreement attached as Exhibit 1B hereto (the Controlled Affiliate License Agreement Applicable to Regional Medicare Advantage PPO Products ) and v) regional Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan products in cooperation with one or more other Plans through jointly-held Controlled Affiliates, provided that each such Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name under the terms and conditions contained in the Agreement attached as Exhibit 1C hereto (the Controlled Affiliate License Agreement Applicable to Regional Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan Products ). As used herein, a Controlled Affiliate is defined as an entity organized and operated in such a manner that it is subject to the bona fide control of a Plan or Plans and, if the entity meets the standards of Paragraph 2a.B but not Paragraph 2a.A, the entity, its owners, and persons with 1. BCBSA hereby grants to the Plan, upon the terms and conditions of this License Agreement ( Agreement or Primary 2. The Plan may use the Licensed Marks and Name in connection with the offering of: i) health care plans and related Amended as of September 19, 2014 Exhibit 10.12 authority to select or appoint members or board members, other than a Plan or Plans, have received written approval of BCBSA. Absent written approval by BCBSA of an alternative method of control, bona fide control shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraphs 2a. and 2b. i) through iii) of Paragraph 2, bona fide control shall mean that a Plan (the Sponsoring Plan ) authorized to use the Licensed Marks in the Service Area of the Controlled Affiliate pursuant to this Primary License Agreement with BCBSA must have: 2a. With respect to the Controlled Affiliate Licenses authorized in clauses A. The legal authority, directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate's governing body having more than 50% voting control thereof (b) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate (c) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with which the Sponsoring Plan do not concur. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries shall own more than 50% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate, provided that in instances where the Sponsoring Plan formed a publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee and such publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee owns and controls other Controlled Affiliate Licensees, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly shall own and control more than 50% of any Controlled Affiliate that is indirectly owned and controlled by the publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee or B. The legal authority directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate's governing body having not less than 50% voting control thereof (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with which the Sponsoring Plan do not concur (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate at least equal to that exercised by persons or entities (jointly or individually) other than the Sponsoring Plan. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in (a) through (c) hereof, the Controlled Affiliate s establishing or governing documents must also require written approval by the Sponsoring Plan before the Controlled Affiliate can: 4. Create, or become liable for by way of guarantee, any indebtedness, other than indebtedness arising in the ordinary course of business 1. Change its legal and or trade name 2. Change the geographic area in which it operates 3. Change any of the types of businesses in which it engages 5. Sell any assets, except for sales in the ordinary course of business or sales of equipment no longer useful or being replaced 6. Make any loans or advances except in the ordinary course of business Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 In addition, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly through wholly owned subsidiaries shall own at least 50% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate, provided that in instances where the Sponsoring Plan formed a publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee and such publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee owns and controls other Controlled Affiliate Licensees, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly shall own and control at least 50% of any Controlled Affiliate that is indirectly owned and controlled by the publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee or C. With respect to a Controlled Affiliate that is 100% controlled by Plans including the Sponsoring Plan and which offers solely Medicaid, Medicare Advantage PPO, Medicare Advantage HMO and or Special Need Plans products and services, the legal authority by the Sponsoring Plan together with such other Plans (a) to select all members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws, or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate, with the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans each having an ownership interest. Such 100% control and ownership by Plans shall be direct or, if indirect, solely through affiliates that are licensed to use marks owned by BCBSA. Further, the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans shall execute the Addendum to Controlled Affiliate License attached as Exhibit B-1 to Exhibit 1 attached hereto or 8. Conduct any business other than under the Licensed Marks and Name 9. Take any action that the Sponsoring Plan or BCBSA reasonably believes will adversely affect the Licensed Marks or Names. 7. Enter into any arrangement or agreement with any party directly or indirectly affiliated with any of the owners of the Controlled Affiliate or persons or entities with the authority to select or appoint members or board members of the Controlled Affiliate, other than the Sponsoring Plan or other Plans (excluding owners of stock holdings of under 5% in a publicly traded Controlled Affiliate) Amended as of June 20, 2019 Exhibit 10.12 shall mean that the Controlled Affiliate is organized and operated in such a manner that it meets the following requirements: this License Agreement with BCBSA (for purposes of this subparagraph A. through subparagraph C., the Controlling Plans ) and 2b. With respect to the Controlled Affiliate License Agreements authorized in clauses iv) and v) of Paragraph 2, bona fide control E. With respect to a Controlled Affiliate that operates as a clinic, the legal authority by the Sponsoring Plan to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate as defined in Exhibit 1, Standard 1(E) and the Guidelines to Administer Standard 1 (E). In addition, if the clinic is for-profit, the Sponsoring Plan shall own at least 50% of the Controlled Affiliate and prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with which the Sponsoring Plan does not concur. A. The Controlled Affiliate is owned or controlled by two or more Plans authorized to use the Licensed Marks pursuant to D. With respect to a Controlled Affiliate that is 100% controlled by a Sponsoring Plan which on a Blue-branded basis, offers solely a Basic Medicare Part D Prescription Drug product, the legal authority by the Sponsoring Plan (a) to select all members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. Such 100% control and ownership by the Plan shall be direct or, if indirect, solely through affiliates that are licensed to use marks owned by BCBSA. Further, the Sponsoring Plan and Participating Plan as defined on the Controlled Affiliate License Agreement shall execute the Addendum to Controlled Affiliate License attached as Exhibit B-2 to Exhibit 1 attached hereto. Amended as of June 20, 2019 Exhibit 10.12 In addition, the Controlling Plans directly or indirectly through wholly- owned subsidiaries shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. B. Each Controlling Plan is authorized pursuant to this Agreement to use the Licensed Marks in a geographic area in the Region (as that term is defined in such Controlled Affiliate License Agreements) and every geographic area in the Region is so licensed to at least one of the Controlling Plans and C. The Controlling Plans must have the legal authority directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body having not less than 100% voting control thereof (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with which the Controlling Plans do not concur and (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in (a) through (c) of this subparagraph E., the Controlled Affiliate s establishing or governing documents must also require written approval by each of the Controlling Plans before the Controlled Affiliate can: 1. Change its legal and or trade names 2. Change the geographic area in which it operates (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the Controlled Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) 3. Change any of the type(s) of businesses in which it engages (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the Controlled Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) 4. Take any action that any Controlling Plan or BCBSA reasonably believes will adversely affect the Licensed Marks and Name. Amended as of June 20, 2019 (the next page is 3) Exhibit 10.12 and or as to which the Plan has been granted a subsequent license, which is hereby defined as the "Service Area," except that BCBSA reserves the right to use the Licensed Marks in said Service Area, and except to the extent that said Service Area may overlap areas served by one or more other licensed Blue Shield Plans as of said date or subsequent license, as to which overlapping areas the rights hereby granted are nonexclusive as to such other Plan or Plans only. communications that contain the Licensed Marks or Name, indicate its corporate relationship to the Affiliate and permit such Affiliate to indicate its corporate relationship to the Plan, solely in the circumstances, style and manner specified by BCBSA from time-to-time in regulations of general application consistent with the avoidance of confusion or mistake or the dilution or tarnishment of the Licensed Marks and Name. No rights are hereby created in any Controlled Affiliate to use the Licensed Marks or Name in its own name or otherwise. committed to strengthening the Licensed Marks and Name. The Plan further recognizes that its actions within its Service Area may affect the value of the Licensed Marks and Name nationwide. The Plan agrees (a) to maintain in good standing its membership in BCBSA (b) promptly to pay its dues to BCBSA, said dues to represent the royalties for this License Agreement (c) materially to comply with all applicable laws (d) to comply with the Membership Standards Applicable to Regular Members of BCBSA, a current copy of which is attached as Exhibit 2 hereto and (e) reasonably to permit BCBSA, upon a written, good faith request and during reasonable business hours, to inspect the Plan's books and records necessary to ascertain compliance herewith. As to other Plans and third parties, BCBSA shall maintain the confidentiality of all documents and information furnished by the Plan pursuant hereto, or pursuant to the Membership Standards, and clearly designated by the Plan as containing proprietary information of the Plan. 3. With respect to a Controlled Affiliate that is not licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name, the Plan may, in 4. The Plan recognizes the importance of a comprehensive national network of independent BCBSA licensees which are 5. The rights hereby granted are exclusive to the Plan within the geographical area(s) served by the Plan on June 30, 1972, Amended as of June 19, 2014 Exhibit 10.12 of the Licensed Marks or Name which is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Plan hereunder and (b) it will not itself use the Licensed Marks in derogation of the rights of the Plan or in a manner to deprive the Plan of the full benefits of this License Agreement, provided that BCBSA shall have the right to use the Licensed Marks in conjunction with any national offering under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program in the manner set forth in Exhibit 4, Paragraph 4 (including subparagraphs) to this License Agreement. The Plan agrees that it will not attack the title of BCBSA in and to the Licensed Marks or Name or attack the validity of the Licensed Marks or of this License Agreement. The Plan further agrees that all use by it of the Licensed Marks and Name or any similar mark or name shall inure to the benefit of BCBSA, and the Plan shall cooperate with BCBSA in effectuating the assignment to BCBSA of any service mark or trademark registrations of the Licensed Marks or any similar mark or name held by the Plan or a Controlled Affiliate of the Plan, all or any portion of which registration consists of the Licensed Marks. necessary and collateral uses, the current rules and regulations governing which are attached as Exhibit 3 and Exhibit 4 hereto, and are contained in other documents referenced herein, or as expressly provided herein, the Plan may not use the Licensed Marks and Name outside the Service Area or in connection with other goods and services, nor may the Plan use the Licensed Marks or Name in a manner which is intended to transfer in the Service Area the goodwill associated therewith to another mark or name. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the Plan from engaging in lawful activity anywhere under other marks and names not confusingly similar to the Licensed Marks and Name, provided that engaging in such activity does and will not dilute or tarnish the unique value of the Licensed Marks and Name. In addition to any and all remedies available hereunder, BCBSA may impose monetary fines on the Plan for the Plan s use of the Licensed Marks and Names outside the Service Area, and provided that the procedure used in imposing a fine is consistent with procedures specifically prescribed by BCBSA from time to time in regulations of general application. In the case of regional Medicare Advantage PPO and regional Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan products offered by consenting and participating Plans in a region that includes the Service Areas, or portions thereof, of more than one Plan, such fine may be imposed jointly on the consenting and participating Plans for use of the Licensed Marks and Name in any geographic area of the region in which a Plan having exclusive rights to the Licensed Marks and Name does not consent to and participate in such offering, provided that the basis for imposition of such fine is consistent with rules specifically prescribed by BCBSA from time to time in regulations of general application. specifically prescribed by BCBSA from time-to-time in regulations of general application in order to prevent impairment of the distinctiveness of the Licensed Marks and Name and the goodwill pertaining thereto. The Plan shall cause to appear on all materials on or in connection with which the Licensed Marks or Name are used such legends, markings and notices as BCBSA may reasonably request in order to give appropriate notice of service mark or other proprietary rights therein or pertaining thereto. 8. BCBSA agrees that: (a) it will not grant any other license effective during the term of this License Agreement for the use 7. The Plan agrees that it will display the Licensed Marks and Name only in such form, style and manner as shall be 6. Except as expressly provided by BCBSA with respect to National Accounts, Government Programs and certain other Amended as of November 16, 2006 Exhibit 10.12 thirty (30) days of receiving written notice thereof (or commence curing such failure within such thirty day period and continue diligent efforts to complete the curing of such failure if such curing cannot reasonably be completed within such thirty day period), BCBSA shall have the right to issue a notice that the Plan is in a state of noncompliance. Except as to the termination of a Plan's License Agreement or the merger of two or more Plans, disputes as to noncompliance, and all other disputes between or among BCBSA, the Plan, other Plans and or Controlled Affiliates, shall be submitted promptly to mediation and mandatory dispute resolution pursuant to the rules and regulations of BCBSA, a current copy of which is attached as Exhibit 5 hereto, and shall be timely presented and resolved. The mandatory dispute resolution panel shall have authority to issue orders for specific performance and assess monetary penalties. If a state of noncompliance as aforesaid is undisputed by the Plan or is found to exist by a mandatory dispute resolution panel and is uncured as provided above, BCBSA shall have the right to seek judicial enforcement of the License Agreement. Except, however, as provided in paragraphs 9(d)(iii), 15(a)(i)- (viii), and 15(a)(x) below, no Plan's license to use the Licensed Marks and Name may be finally terminated for any reason without the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans. Name may be forthwith terminated by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans at a special meeting expressly called by BCBSA for the purpose on ten (10) days written notice to the Plan advising of the specific matters at issue and granting the Plan an opportunity to be heard and to present its response to Member Plans for: (i) failure to comply with any minimum capital or liquidity requirement under the Membership Standard on Financial Responsibility or (ii) impending financial insolvency or (iii) the pendency of any action instituted against the Plan seeking its dissolution or liquidation or its assets or seeking appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business or seeking the declaration or establishment of a trust for any of its property of business, unless this License Agreement has been earlier terminated under paragraph 15(a) or (iv) such other reason as is determined in good faith immediately and irreparably to threaten the integrity and reputation of BCBSA, the Plans and or the Licensed Marks. 9. (a). Should the Plan fail to comply with the provisions of paragraphs 2-4, 6, 7 and or 12, and not cure such failure within (b). Notwithstanding any other provision of this License Agreement, a Plan's license to use the Licensed Marks and Amended as of March 16, 2006 Exhibit 10.12 Members of BCBSA nor (ii) the rules and regulations governing Government Programs and certain other uses nor (iii) the rules and regulations governing mediation and mandatory dispute resolution, may be amended unless and until each such amendment is first adopted by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and of three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans. The rules and regulations governing National Accounts and other national programs required by the Membership Standards Applicable to Regular Members of BCBSA (Exhibit 2) are contained, in addition to those set forth in Exhibit 3, in the following documents, as amended from time to time: (1) the Inter-Plan Programs Policies and Provisions (2) Inter-Plan Medicare Advantage Program Policies and Provisions. The voting requirements specified in rules and regulations governing such national programs may not be amended unless and until each such amendment is first adopted by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and of three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans. (c). To the extent not otherwise provided therein, neither: (i) the Membership Standards Applicable to Regular Amended as of November 21, 2014 Exhibit 10.12 Plan's membership in BCBSA. identify the Plan in any securities market. The Plan shall use the Licensed Marks and Name as part of its trade name within its service area for the sale, marketing and administration of health care and related services in the service area. knows, or there is an SEC filing indicating that, any Institutional Investor, has become the Beneficial Owner of securities representing 10% or more of the voting power of the Plan ( Excess Institutional Voter ), unless such Excess Institutional Voter shall cease to be an Excess Institutional Voter prior to such automatic termination becoming effective (b) thirty days after the Plan knows, or there is an SEC filing indicating that, any Noninstitutional Investor has become the Beneficial Owner of securities representing 5% or more of the voting power of the Plan ( Excess Noninstitutional Voter ) unless such Excess Noninstitutional Voter shall cease to be an Excess Noninstitutional Voter prior to such automatic termination becoming effective (c) thirty days after the Plan knows, or there is an SEC filing indicating that, any Person has become the Beneficial Owner of 20% or more of the Plan s then outstanding common stock or other equity securities which (either by themselves or in combination) represent an ownership interest of 20% or more pursuant to determinations made under paragraph 9(d)(iv) below ( Excess Owner ), unless such Excess Owner shall cease to be an Excess Owner prior to such automatic termination becoming effective (d) ten business days after individuals who at the time the Plan went public constituted the Board of Directors of the Plan (together with any new directors whose election to the Board was approved by a vote of 2 3 of the directors then still in office who were directors at the time the Plan went public or whose election or nomination was previously so approved) (the "Continuing Directors") cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors or (e) ten business days after the Plan consolidates with or merges with or into any person or conveys, assigns, transfers or sells all or substantially all of its assets to any person other than a merger in which the Plan is the surviving entity and immediately after which merger, no person is an Excess Institutional Voter, an Excess Noninstitutional Voter or an Excess Owner: provided that, if requested by the affected Plan in a writing received by BCBSA prior to such automatic termination (d). The Plan may operate as a for-profit company on the following conditions: (i) The Plan shall discharge all responsibilities which it has to the Association and to other Plans by virtue of this Agreement and the (ii) The Plan shall not use the licensed Marks and Name, or any derivative thereof, as part of its legal name or any symbol used to (iii) The Plan's license to use the Licensed Marks and Name shall automatically terminate effective: (a) thirty days after the Plan Amended as of September 17, 1997 Exhibit 10.12 becoming effective, the provisions of this paragraph 9(d)(iii) may be waived, in whole or in part, upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested Plans and a majority of the total then current weighted vote of the disinterested Plans. Any waiver so granted may be conditioned upon such additional requirements (including but not limited to imposing new and independent grounds for termination of this License) as shall be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested Plans and a majority of the total then current weighted vote of the disinterested Plans. If a timely waiver request is received, no automatic termination shall become effective until the later of: (1) the conclusion of the applicable time period specified in paragraphs 9(d)(iii)(a)-(d) above, or (2) the conclusion of the first Member Plan meeting after receipt of such a waiver request. In the event that the Plan's license to use the Licensed Marks and Name is terminated pursuant to this Paragraph 9(d)(iii), the license may be reinstated in BCBSA s sole discretion if, within 30 days of the date of such termination, the Plan demonstrates that the Person referred to in clause (a), (b) or (c) of the preceding paragraph is no longer an Excess Institutional Voter, an Excess Noninstitutional Voter or an Excess Owner. identical terms or options or derivatives of such common stock, (ii) non-voting, non-convertible debt securities or (iii) such other securities as the Plan may approve, provided that BCBSA receives notice at least thirty days prior to the issuance of such securities, including a description of the terms for such securities, and BCBSA shall have the authority to determine how such other securities will be counted in determining whether any Person is an Excess Institutional Voter, Excess Noninstitutional Voter or an Excess Owner. (iv) The Plan shall not issue any class or series of security other than (i) shares of common stock having 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and in effect on November 17, 1993 (the "Exchange Act"). any securities: (v) For purposes of paragraph 9(d)(iii), the following definitions shall apply: (b) A Person shall be deemed the "Beneficial Owner" of and shall be deemed to "beneficially own" (a) "Affiliate" and "Associate" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule Amended as of September 17, 1997 Exhibit 10.12 (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise or (B) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any security if the agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security (1) arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to such Person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report) or or Associate thereof) with which such Person (or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates) has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities) relating to the acquisition, holding, voting (except to the extent contemplated by the proviso to (b)(ii)(B) above) or disposing of any securities of the Plan. Notwithstanding anything in this definition of Beneficial Ownership to the contrary, the phrase "then outstanding," when used with reference to a Person's Beneficial Ownership of securities of the Plan, shall mean the number of such securities then issued and outstanding together with the number of such securities not then actually issued and outstanding which such Person would be deemed to own beneficially hereunder. in the SEC s Rule 13d-1(b)(1)(ii) as constituted on June 1, 1997, and (ii) every filing made by such Person with the SEC under Regulation 13D-G (or any successor Regulation) with respect to such Person s Beneficial Ownership of Plan securities shall have contained a certification identical to the one required by item 10 of SEC Schedule 13G as constituted on June 1, 1997. and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity. (c) A Person shall be deemed an Institutional Investor if (but only if) such Person (i) is an entity or group identified (d) Noninstitutional Investor means any Person who is not an Institutional Investor. (e) Person" shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, trust, association, joint venture or other entity, directly or indirectly (i) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates beneficially owns, (ii) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates has (A) the right to (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person (or any Affiliate Amended as of September 17, 1997 (The next page is page 6) Exhibit 10.12 License Agreements are terminated by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans (c) until terminated by the Plan upon eighteen (18) months written notice to BCBSA or upon a shorter notice period approved by BCBSA in writing at its sole discretion. fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans, or unless this and all such other License Agreements are simultaneously terminated by force of law, the termination of this License Agreement for any reason whatsoever shall cause the reversion to BCBSA of all rights in and to the Licensed Marks and Name, and the Plan agrees that it will promptly discontinue all use of the Licensed Marks and Name, will not use them thereafter, and will promptly, upon written notice from BCBSA, change its corporate name so as to eliminate the Licensed Name therefrom. licensed and shall not be assignable by any act of the Plan, directly or indirectly, without the written consent of BCBSA. Said license shall not be assignable by operation of law, nor shall Plan mortgage or part with possession or control of this license or any right hereunder, and the Plan shall have no right to grant any sublicense to use the Licensed Marks and Name. steps and proceedings as may be necessary or proper to prevent use of the Licensed Marks by any person who is not authorized to use the same. Any actions or proceedings undertaken by BCBSA under the provisions of this paragraph shall be at BCBSA's sole cost and expense. BCBSA shall have the sole right to determine whether or not any legal action shall be taken on account of unauthorized use of the Licensed Marks, such right not to be unreasonably exercised. The Plan shall report any unlawful usage of the Licensed Marks to BCBSA in writing and agrees, free of charge, to cooperate fully with BCBSA's program of enforcing and protecting the service mark rights, trade name rights and other rights in the Licensed Marks. all claims, damages, liabilities and Costs of every kind, nature and description which may arise as a result of the activities of the Plan or of any hospital, medical group, clinic or other provider of health services that is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by Plan. BCBSA hereby agrees to save, defend, indemnify and hold the Plan and any other Plan(s) harmless from and against all claims, damages, liabilities and costs of every kind, nature and description which may arise exclusively and directly as a result of the activities of BCBSA. 10. This License Agreement shall remain in effect: (a) until terminated as provided herein or (b) until this and all such other 11. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 15 below or by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three- 12. The license hereby granted to Plan to use the Licensed Marks and Name is and shall be personal to the Plan so 13. BCBSA shall maintain appropriate service mark registrations of the Licensed Marks and BCBSA shall take such lawful 14. The Plan hereby agrees to save, defend, indemnify and hold BCBSA And any other Plan(s) harmless from and against Amended as of June 21, 2012 Exhibit 10.12 petition shall be filed by the Plan or by BCBSA seeking bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement with creditors or other relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or any other law governing insolvency or debtor relief, or (ii) an involuntary petition or proceeding shall be filed against the Plan or BCBSA seeking bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement with creditors or other relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or any other law governing insolvency or debtor relief and such petition or proceeding is consented to or acquiesced in by the Plan or BCBSA or is not dismissed within sixty (60) days of the date upon which the petition or other document commencing the proceeding is served upon the Plan or BCBSA respectively, or (iii) an order for relief is entered against the Plan or BCBSA in any case under the bankruptcy laws of the United States, or the Plan or BCBSA is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent (as that term is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code as enacted in the state of Illinois) by any court of competent jurisdiction, or (iv) the Plan or BCBSA makes a general assignment of its assets for the benefit of creditors, or (v) any government or any government official, office, agency, branch, or unit assumes control of the Plan or delinquency proceedings (voluntary or involuntary) are instituted, or (vi) an action is brought by the Plan or BCBSA seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking the appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business, or (vii) an action is instituted by any governmental entity or officer against the Plan or BCBSA seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business and such action is consented to or acquiesced in by the Plan or BCBSA or is not dismissed within one hundred thirty (130) days of the date upon which the pleading or other document commencing the action is served upon the Plan or BCBSA respectively, provided that if the action is stayed or its prosecution is enjoined, the one hundred thirty (130) day period is tolled for the duration of the stay or injunction, and provided further, that the Association s Board of Directors may toll or extend the 130 day period at any time prior to its expiration, or (viii) a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of the Plan's or BCBSA's property or business is appointed, or the Plan or BCBSA is ordered dissolved or liquidated, or (ix) the Plan shall fail to pay its dues and shall not cure such failure within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice thereof, or (x) if, due to regulatory action, the Plan together with any applicable Controlled Affiliate becomes unable to do business using the Names and Marks in any State or portion thereof included in its Service Area, provided that: (i) automatic termination shall not occur prior to the exhaustion by any such Plan of its rights to appeal or challenge such regulatory action and (ii) in the event the Plan is licensed to do business using the Names and Marks in multiple States or portions of States, the termination of its License Agreement shall be solely limited to the State(s) or portions thereof in which the regulatory action applies. By not appealing or challenging such regulatory action within the time prescribed by law or regulation, and in any event no later than 120 days after such action is taken, a Plan shall be deemed to have exhausted its rights to appeal or challenge, and automatic termination shall proceed. 15. (a). This Agreement shall automatically terminate upon the occurrence of any of the following events: (i) a voluntary Exhibit 10.12 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, a declaration or a request for declaration of the existence of a trust over any of the Plan s or BCBSA s property or business shall not in itself be deemed to constitute or seek appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for purposes of subparagraphs 15(a)(vii) and (viii) of this Agreement. Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 above, the ownership of the Licensed Marks shall revert to each of the Plans. Controlled Affiliate, as defined in Exhibit 1 to this License Agreement, the following conditions shall apply, except that, in the event of a partial termination of this Agreement pursuant to Paragraph 15 (a)(x)(ii) of this Agreement, the notices, national account listing, payment and audit right listed below shall be applicable solely with respect to the geographic area for which the Plan s license to use the Licensed Names and Marks is terminated: terminate this Agreement immediately upon written notice upon the occurrence of either of the following events: (a) the Plan or BCBSA becomes insolvent (as that term is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code enacted in the state of Illinois), or (b) any final judgment against the Plan or BCBSA remains unsatisfied or unbonded of record for a period of sixty (60) days or longer. (b). If this License Agreement is terminated as to BCBSA for any reason stated in subparagraphs 15(a) and (b) (c). Upon termination of this License Agreement or any Controlled Affiliate License Agreement of a Larger (a). BCBSA, or the Plans (as provided and in addition to the rights conferred in Paragraph 10(b) above), may (i) The terminated entity shall send a notice through the U.S. mails, with first class postage affixed, to all individual and group customers, providers, brokers and agents of products or services sold, marketed, underwritten or administered by the terminated entity or its Controlled Affiliates under the Licensed Marks and Name. The form and content of the notice shall be specified by BCBSA and shall, at a minimum, notify the recipient of the termination of the license, the consequences thereof, and instructions for obtaining alternate products or services licensed by BCBSA, subject to any conflicting state law and state regulatory requirements. This notice shall be mailed within 15 days after termination or, if termination is pursuant to paragraph 10(d) of this Agreement, within 15 days after the written notice to BCBSA described in paragraph 10(d). (ii) The terminated entity shall deliver to BCBSA within five days of a request by BCBSA a listing of national accounts in which the terminated entity is involved (in a Control, Participating or Servicing capacity), identifying the national account and the terminated entity's role therein. For those accounts where the terminated entity is the Control Plan, the Plan must also indicate the Participating and Servicing Plans in the national account syndicate. Amended as of June 16, 2005 Exhibit 10.12 (iii) Unless the cause of termination is an event stated in paragraph 15(a) or (b) above respecting BCBSA, the Plan and its Licensed Controlled Affiliates shall be jointly liable for payment to BCBSA of an amount equal to the Re-Establishment Fee (described below) multiplied by the number of Licensed Enrollees of the terminated entity and its Licensed Controlled Affiliates provided that if any other Plan is permitted by BCBSA to use marks or names licensed by BCBSA in the Service Area established by this Agreement, the Re- Establishment Fee shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of Licensed Enrollees of the terminated entity and its Licensed Controlled Affiliates and the denominator of which is the total number of Licensed Enrollees in the Service Area. The Re-Establishment Fee shall be indexed to a base fee of 80. The Re-Establishment Fee through December 31, 2005 shall be 80. The Re-Establishment Fee for calendar years after December 31, 2005 shall be adjusted on January 1 of each calendar year up to and including January 1, 2010 and shall be the base fee multiplied by 100% plus the cumulative percentage increase or decrease in the Plans gross administrative expense (standard BCBSA definition) per Licensed Enrollee since December 31, 2004. The adjustment shall end on January 1, 2011, at which time the Re-Establishment Fee shall be fixed at the then-current amount and no longer automatically adjusted. For example, if the Plans gross administrative expense per Licensed Enrollee was 278.60, 285.00 and 290.00 for calendar year end 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively, the January 1, 2007 Re-Establishment Fee would be 83.27 (100% of the base fee plus 1.84 for calendar year 2005 and 1.43 for calendar year 2006). Licensed Enrollee means each and every person and covered dependent who is enrolled as an individual or member of a group receiving products or services sold, marketed or administered under marks or names licensed by BCBSA as determined at the earlier of (a) the end of the last fiscal year of the terminated entity which ended prior to termination or (b) the fiscal year which ended before any transactions causing the termination began. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount payable pursuant to this subparagraph (d)(iii) shall be due only Amended as of June 16, 2005 -8a- Exhibit 10.12 (iv) The terminated entity shall comply with all financial settlement procedures set forth in BCBSA s License Termination Contingency Plan, as amended from time to time and shall work diligently and in good faith with to the extent that, in BCBSA's opinion, it does not cause the net worth of the Plan to fall below 100% of the Health Risk-Based Capital formula or its equivalent under any successor formula, as set forth in the applicable financial responsibility standards established by BCBSA (provided such equivalent is approved for purposes of this sub paragraph by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans), measured as of the date of termination and adjusted for the value of any transactions not made in the ordinary course of business. This payment shall not be due in connection with transactions exclusively by or among Plan or their affiliates, including reorganizations, combinations or mergers, where the BCBSA Board of Directors determines that the license termination does not result in a material diminution in the number of Licensed Enrollees or the extent of their coverage. At least 50% of the Re-Establishment Fee shall be awarded to the Plan (or Plans) that receive the new license(s) for the service area(s) at issue provided, however, that such award shall not become due or payable until all disputes, if any, regarding the amount of and BCBSA s right to such Re-Establishment Fee have been finally resolved and provided further that the award shall be based on the final amount actually received by BCBSA. The Board of Directors shall adopt a resolution which it may amend from time to time that shall govern BCBSA s use of its portion of the award. In the event that the terminated entity s license is reinstated by BCBSA or is deemed to have remained in effect without interruption by a court of competent jurisdiction, BCBSA shall reimburse the Plan (and or its Licensed Controlled Affiliates, as the case may be) for payments made under this subparagraph only to the extent that such payments exceed the amounts due to BCBSA pursuant to subparagraph 15(d)(vi) and any costs associated with reestablishing the Service Area, including any payments made by BCBSA to a Plan or Plans (or their Licensed Controlled Affiliates) for purposes of replacing the terminated entity. Amended as of June 16, 2005 -8b- Exhibit 10.12 BCBSA, any Alternative Control Licensee or Replacement Licensee and any existing or potential new account for Blue-branded products and services to minimize the disruption of termination, and honor, to the fullest extent possible, the desire of accounts to continue to receive or obtain Blue-branded products and services through a new Licensee ( Transition ). Such diligence and good faith on the part of the terminated entity shall include, but not be limited to: (a) working cooperatively with BCBSA to protect the Names and Marks from potential harm (b) cooperating with BCBSA s use of the Names and Marks in the terminated entity s former service area during the termination and Transition (c) transmitting, upon the request of an existing Blue account or of BCBSA with consent and on behalf of an existing Blue account, all member and account-data relating to the Federal Employee Program to BCBSA, and all member and account data relating to other programs to an Alternative Control Licensee or Replacement Licensee (d) working with BCBSA and the Alternative Control or Replacement Licensee with respect to potential new Blue accounts headquartered in the terminated entity s former service area (e) continuing to service Blue accounts during the Transition (f) continuing to comply with National Programs, Federal Employee Program and NASCO policies and procedures and all voluntary BCBSA programs, policies and performance standards, such as Away From Home Care, including being responsible for payment of all penalties for non-compliance duly levied in conformity with the License Agreements, Membership Standards, or the Federal Employee Program agreements, that may arise during the Transition (g) maintaining and providing access to its provider networks, as defined by Federal Employee Program agreements and National Account Program Policies and Provisions, and Inter-Plan Programs Policies and Provisions, and making those networks and discounts available to members and providers who participate in National Programs and the Federal Employee Program during the Transition (h) maintaining its technical connections and processing capabilities during the Transition and (i) working diligently to conclude all financial settlements and account reconciliations as negotiated in the termination transition agreement. Amended as of November 16, 2006 Exhibit 10.12 (v) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, BCBSA shall have the right, with the approval of its Board of Directors, to assess additional fines against the terminated entity during the Transition in the event it fails to maintain and provide access to provider networks as defined by Federal Employee Program agreements, National Account Program Policies and Provisions, and Inter-Plans Programs Policies and Provisions, and or pass on applicable discounts. Such fines shall be in addition to any other assessments, fees or liquidated damages payable herein, or under existing policies and programs and shall be imposed to make whole BCBSA and or the Plans. Terminated entity shall pay any such fines to BCBSA no later than 30 days after they are approved by the Board of Directors. (vi) BCBSA shall have the right to examine and audit and or hire at terminated entity s expense a third-party auditor to examine and audit the books and records of the terminated entity and its Licensed Controlled Affiliates to verify compliance with the terms and requirements of this paragraph 15(d). (vii) Subsequent to termination of this Agreement, the terminated entity and its affiliates, agents, and employees shall have an ongoing and continuing obligation to protect all BCBSA and Blue Licensee data that was acquired or accessed during the period this Agreement was in force, including but not limited to all confidential processes, pricing, provider, discount and other strategic and competitively sensitive information ( Blue Information ) from disclosure, and shall not, either alone or with another entity, disclose such Blue Information or use it in any manner to compete without the express written permission of BCBSA. (viii) As to a breach of 15 (d) (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (vi), or (vii) the parties agree that the obligations are immediately enforceable in a court of competent jurisdiction. As to a breach of 15 (d) (i), (ii), (iv), (vi), or (vii) by the Plan, the parties agree there is no adequate remedy at law and BCBSA is entitled to obtain specific performance. Amended as of November 16, 2006 Exhibit 10.12 transaction which would result in a termination of this License Agreement unless the License Agreement has been terminated pursuant to paragraph 10 (d) of this Agreement upon the required six (6) month written notice. (e). BCBSA shall be entitled to enjoin the Plan or any related party in a court of competent jurisdiction from entry into any (f). BCBSA acknowledges that it is not the owner of assets of the Plan. (ix) In the event that the terminated entity s license is reinstated by BCBSA or is deemed to have remained in effect without interruption by a court of competent jurisdiction, the Plan and its Licensed Controlled Affiliates shall be jointly liable for reimbursing BCBSA the reasonable costs incurred by BCBSA in connection with the termination and the reinstatement or court action, and any associated legal proceedings, including but not limited to: outside legal fees, consulting fees, public relations fees, advertising costs, and costs incurred to develop, lease or establish an interim provider network. Any amount due to BCBSA under this subparagraph may be waived in whole or in part by the BCBSA Board of Directors in its sole discretion. Amended as of June 16, 2006 Exhibit 10.12 18. No waiver by BCBSA or the Plan of any breach or default in performance on the part of BCBSA or the Plan or any other licensee of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach or default in performance of said terms, covenants or conditions. 19a. All notices provided for hereunder shall be in writing and shall be sent in duplicate by regular mail to BCBSA or the Plan at the address currently published for each by BCBSA and shall be marked respectively to the attention of the President and, if any, the General Counsel, of BCBSA or the Plan. 19b. Except as provided in paragraphs 9(b), 9(d)(iii), 15(a), and 15(b) above, this Agreement may be terminated for a breach only upon at least 30 days written notice to the Plan advising of the specific matters at issue and granting the Plan an opportunity to be heard and to present its response to the Member Plans. 19c. For all provisions of this Agreement referring to voting, the term Plans shall mean all entities licensed under the Blue Cross License Agreement and or the Blue Shield License Agreement, and in all votes of the Plans under this Agreement the Plans shall vote together. For weighted votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have a number of votes equal to the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Cross Plan plus the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Shield Plan. For all other votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have one vote. For all questions requiring an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote of the Plans, the requirement shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless the greater of: (i) 6 52 or more of the Plans (rounded to the nearest whole number, with 0.5 or multiples thereof being rounded to the next higher whole number) fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question or (ii) three (3) of the Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, if there are thirty-nine (39) Plans, the requirement of an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless four (4) or more Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. 16. This Agreement supersedes any and all other agreements between the parties with respect to the subject matter herein, and contains all of the covenants and agreements of the parties as to the licensing of the Licensed Marks and Name. This Agreement may be amended only by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans as officially recorded by the BCBSA Corporate Secretary. 17. If any provision or any part of any provision of this Agreement is judicially declared unlawful, each and every other provision, or any part of any provision, shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding such judicial declaration. Amended as of June 16, 2006 (The next page is page 9) Exhibit 10.12 20. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to constitute the parties hereto as partners or joint venturers, or either as the agent of the other, and Plan shall have no right to bind or obligate BCBSA in any way, nor shall it represent that it has any right to do so. BCBSA shall have no liability to third parties with respect to any aspect of the business, activities, operations, products, or services of the Plan. 21. This Agreement shall be governed, construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this License Agreement to be executed, effective as of the date of last signature written below. BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION Title Title Exhibit 10.12 ("Plan" or Sponsoring Plan ), which is also a Party Affiliate of the Blue Shield Plan, known as signatory hereto. service marks (collectively the "Licensed Marks") as service marks and be entitled to use the term BLUE SHIELD in a trade name ("Licensed Name") valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows: 1. GRANT OF LICENSE Marks and Name in connection with, and only in connection with: (i) health care plans and related services, as defined in BCBSA's License Agreement with Plan, and administering the non-health portion of workers compensation insurance, and (ii) underwriting the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance, provided that Controlled Affiliate s total premium revenue comprises less than 15 percent of the Sponsoring Plan s net subscription revenue. This grant of rights is non-exclusive and is limited to the Service Area served by the Plan. Subject to Paragraph 3A(3) of this Agreement, Controlled Affiliate may use the Licensed Marks and Name in its legal name on the following conditions: (i) the legal name must be approved in advance, in writing, by BCBSA (ii) Controlled Affiliate shall not do business outside the Service Area under any name or mark and (iii) Controlled Affiliate shall not use the Licensed Marks and Name, or any derivative thereof, as part of any name or symbol used to identify itself in any securities market, unless such Controlled Affiliate is a not-for-profit company which may use the Licensed Marks and Name, or an approved derivative therefor, to identify itself in debt securities markets. Controlled Affiliate may use the Licensed Marks and Name in its Trade Name only with the prior, written, consent of BCBSA. (Includes revisions adopted by Member Plans through their November 21, 2019 meeting) WHEREAS, BCBSA is the owner of the BLUE SHIELD and BLUE SHIELD Design service marks WHEREAS, Plan and Controlled Affiliate desire that the latter be entitled to use the BLUE SHIELD and BLUE SHIELD Design NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements hereinafter set forth and for other good and This Agreement by and among Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ("BCBSA") and ( Controlled Affiliate"), a Controlled Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, BCBSA hereby grants to Controlled Affiliate the right to use the Licensed CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE AGREEMENT BLUE SHIELD Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 2. QUALITY CONTROL agrees to be bound by the conditions regarding quality control shown in attached Exhibit A as they may be amended by BCBSA from time- to-time. B. Controlled Affiliate agrees to comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws. BCBSA) a report or reports to Plan and BCBSA demonstrating Controlled Affiliate's compliance with the requirements of this Agreement including but not limited to the quality control provisions of this paragraph and the attached Exhibit A. the manner and method of Controlled Affiliate's rendering of service and use of the Licensed Marks and Name. Sponsoring Plan has: (1) The legal authority directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: Controlled Affiliate with which the Sponsoring Plan does not concur and entities (jointly or individually) other than the Sponsoring Plan and Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in (a) through (c) hereof, the Controlled Affiliate s establishing or governing documents must also require written approval by the Sponsoring Plan before the Controlled Affiliate can: A. Controlled Affiliate agrees to use the Licensed Marks and Name only in connection with the licensed services and further C. Controlled Affiliate agrees that it will provide on an annual basis (or more often if reasonably required by Plan or by D. Controlled Affiliate agrees that Plan and or BCBSA may, from time-to- time, upon reasonable notice, review and inspect E. As used herein, a Controlled Affiliate is defined as an entity organized and operated in such a manner, that the (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body having not less than 50% voting control thereof and (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate at least equal to that exercised by persons or (i) change its legal and or trade names (ii) change the geographic area in which it operates (iii) change any of the type(s) of businesses in which it engages Amended as of September 19, 2014 Exhibit 10.12 (2) The legal authority directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries In addition, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly through wholly owned subsidiaries shall own at least 50% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate, provided that in instances where the Sponsoring Plan formed a publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee and such publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee owns and controls other Controlled Affiliate Licensees, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly shall own and control at least 50% of any Controlled Affiliate that is indirectly owned and controlled by the publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee. (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body having more than 50% voting control thereof and to: (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with which the Sponsoring Plan do not concur and c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. (iv) create, or become liable for by way of guarantee, any indebtedness, other than indebtedness arising in the ordinary course of business (v) sell any assets, except for sales in the ordinary course of business or sales of equipment no longer useful or being replaced (vi) make any loans or advances except in the ordinary course of business (vii) enter into any arrangement or agreement with any party directly or indirectly affiliated with any of the owners or persons or entities with the authority to select or appoint members or board members of the Controlled Affiliate, other than the Sponsoring Plan or other Plans (excluding owners of stock holdings of under 5% in a publicly traded Controlled Affiliate) (viii) conduct any business other than under the Licensed Marks and Name (ix) take any action that Sponsoring Plan or BCBSA reasonably believes will adversely affect the Licensed Marks and Name. Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 In addition, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries shall own more than 50% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate, provided that in instances where the Sponsoring Plan formed a publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee and such publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee owns and controls other Controlled Affiliate Licensees, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly shall own and control more than 50% of any Controlled Affiliate that is indirectly owned and controlled by the publicly traded Controlled Affiliate Licensee. (3) With respect to a Controlled Affiliate that is 100% controlled by Plans including the Sponsoring Plan and which offers solely Medicaid, Medicare Advantage PPO, Medicare Advantage HMO and or Special Need Plans products and services, the Sponsoring Plan has the legal authority together with such other Plans: In addition, the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate, with the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans each having an ownership interest. Such control and ownership by Plans must be direct or, if indirect, solely through affiliates that are licensed to use marks owned by BCBSA. Further, the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans shall execute a separate Addendum to Controlled Affiliate License Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit B-1 for each product noted in Paragraph 2E(3) that is licensed to use the Marks. (4) With respect to a Controlled Affiliate that is 100% controlled by a Sponsoring Plan which on a Blue-branded basis offers solely a Basic Medicare Part D Prescription Drug product, the Sponsoring Plan has the legal authority: (a) to select all members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body and (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate and (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. (a) to select all members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body and (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate and (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. Amended June 20, 2019 Exhibit 10.12 In addition, the Sponsoring Plan shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. Such 100% control and ownership by Sponsoring Plan must be direct or, if indirect, solely through affiliates that are licensed to use marks owned by BCBSA, Further, the Participating Plan as defined in Exhibit B-2 and the Sponsoring Plan shall execute the Addendum to Controlled Affiliate License Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit B-2. (5) With respect to a Controlled Affiliate that is operating as a clinic, absent an alternative method of control approved in writing by BCBSA, the Sponsoring Plan shall have bonafide operational control over the Controlled Affiliate as specified in Exhibit A, Standard 1 (E) and the Guidelines to Administer Standard 1 (E). In addition, if the clinic is for-profit, the Sponsoring Plan shall own at least 50% of the Controlled Affiliate and prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with which it does not concur. 3. FOR-PROFIT, PUBLICLY TRADED LICENSEES A. The Controlled Affiliate may operate as a for-profit publicly traded company on the following conditions: (2) The Controlled Affiliate shall provide 90 days advance written notice to BCBSA prior to the initial filing with the SEC. (3) The Controlled Affiliate shall not use the Licensed Marks and Name, or any derivative thereof, as part of its legal name or any symbol used to identify the Controlled Affiliate in any securities market. The Controlled Affiliate shall use the Licensed Marks and Name as part of its trade name within its service area for the sale, marketing and administration of health care and related services in the service area. (1) The Controlled Affiliate shall discharge all responsibilities which it has to the Association and to other Plans by virtue of this Agreement. (4) The Controlled Affiliate s license to use the Licensed Marks and Name shall automatically terminate effective: (a) thirty days after the Controlled Affiliate knows, or there is an SEC filing indicating that, any Institutional Investor, has become the Beneficial Owner of securities representing 10% or more of the voting power of the Controlled Affiliate ( Excess Institutional Voter ), unless such Excess Institutional Voter shall cease to be an Excess Institutional Voter prior to such automatic termination becoming effective (b) thirty days after the Controlled Affiliate knows, or there is an SEC filing indicating that, any Noninstitutional Investor, other than a Plan or Plans or Controlled Affiliate licensee or licensees has become the Beneficial Owner of securities representing 5% or more of the voting power of the Controlled Affiliate ( Excess Noninstitutional Voter ) unless such Excess Noninstitutional Voter shall cease to be an Excess Noninstitutional Voter prior to such automatic termination becoming effective (c) thirty days after Amended as of June 29, 2019 Exhibit 10.12 the Controlled Affiliate knows, or there is an SEC filing indicating that, any Person has become the Beneficial Owner, other than a Plan or Plans or Controlled Affiliate licensee or licensees, of 20% or more of the Controlled Affiliate s then outstanding common stock or other equity securities which (either by themselves or in combination) represent an ownership interest of 20% or more pursuant to determinations made under Paragraph 3A(4) below ( Excess Owner ), unless such Excess Owner shall cease to be an Excess Owner prior to such automatic termination becoming effective (d) ten business days after individuals who at the time the Controlled Affiliate went public constituted the Board of Directors of the Controlled Affiliate (together with any new directors whose election to the Board was approved by a vote of 2 3 of the directors then still in office who were directors at the time the Controlled Affiliate went public or whose election or nomination was previously so approved) (the Continuing Directors ) cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors or (e) ten business days after the Controlled Affiliate consolidates with or merges with or into any person or conveys, assigns, transfers or sells all or substantially all of its assets to any person other than a merger in which the Sponsoring Plan is the surviving entity and immediately after which merger, no person is an Excess Institutional Voter, an Excess Noninstitutional Voter or an Excess Owner: provided that, if requested by the affected Controlled Affiliate in a writing received by BCBSA prior to such automatic termination becoming effective, the provision of this paragraph 3A(4) may be waived, in whole or in part, upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested Plans and a majority of the total then current weighted vote of the disinterested Plans. Any waiver so granted may be conditioned upon such additional requirements (including but not limited to imposing new and independent grounds for termination of this License) as shall be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested Plans and a majority of the total then current weighted vote of the disinterested Plans. If a timely waiver request is received, no automatic termination shall become effective until the later of: (1) the conclusion of the applicable time period specified in paragraphs 3A(4)(a)-(d) above, or (2) the conclusion of the first Member Plan meeting after receipt of such a waiver request. In the event that the Controlled Affiliate s license, or any other license, to use the Licensed Marks and Name is terminated pursuant to Paragraph 3A(4), the license may be reinstated in BCBSA s sole discretion if, within 30 days of the date of such termination, the Controlled Affiliate demonstrates that the Person referred to in clause (a), (b) or (c) of the preceding paragraph is no longer an Excess Institutional Voter, an Excess Noninstitutional Voter or an Excess Owner. (5) The Controlled Affiliate shall not issue any class or series of security other than (i) shares of common stock having identical terms or options or derivatives of such common stock, (ii) non-voting, non-convertible debt securities, or (iii) such other securities as the Controlled Affiliate may approve, provided that BCBSA receives notice at least thirty days prior to the issuance of such securities, including a description of the terms for such securities, and BCBSA shall have the authority to determine how such other securities will be counted in determining whether any Person is an Excess Institutional Voter, Excess Noninstitutional Voter or an Excess Owner. Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 (6) For purposes of paragraph 3(A) above, the following definitions shall apply: (i) Affiliate and Associate shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and in effect on November 17, 1993 (the Exchange Act ). (ii) A Person shall be deemed the Beneficial Owner of and shall be deemed to beneficially own any securities: right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise or (B) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any security if the agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security (1) arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to such Person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report) or with which such Person (or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates) has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public offering of securities) relating to the acquisition, holding, voting (except to the extent contemplated by the proviso to (ii)2(B) above) or disposing of any securities of the Controlled Affiliate. Notwithstanding anything in this definition of Beneficial Ownership to the contrary, the phrase then outstanding , when used with reference to a Person s Beneficial Ownership of securities of the Controlled Affiliate, shall mean the number of such securities then issued and outstanding together with the number of such securities not then actually issued and outstanding which such Person would be deemed to own beneficially hereunder. (1) which such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates beneficially owns, directly or indirectly (2) which such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates has (A) the right to acquire (whether such (3) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 limited to use of such symbols or words as BCBSA shall specify to protect the Licensed Marks and Name and shall comply with such rules (generally applicable to Controlled Affiliates licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name) relative to service mark use, as are issued from time-to-time by BCBSA. Controlled Affiliate recognizes and agrees that all use of the Licensed Marks and Name by Controlled Affiliate shall inure to the benefit of BCBSA. intended to transfer in the Service Area the goodwill associated therewith to another mark or name, nor may Controlled Affiliate engage in activity that may dilute or tarnish the unique value of the Licensed Marks and Name. promotional material is reasonably determined by BCBSA and or the Plan to be in contravention of rules and regulations governing the use of the Licensed Marks and Name, Controlled Affiliate shall for ninety (1) days thereafter obtain prior approval from BCBSA of advertising and promotional efforts using the Licensed Marks and Name, approval or disapproval thereof to be forthcoming within five (5) business days of receipt of same by BCBSA or its designee. In all advertising and promotional efforts, Controlled Affiliate shall observe the Service Area limitations applicable to Plan. SEC s Rule 13d-1(b)(1)(ii) as constituted on June 1, 1997, and (ii) every filing made by such Person with the SEC under Regulation 13D-G (or any successor Regulation) with respect to such Person s Beneficial Ownership of Plan securities shall have contained a certification identical to the one required by item 1 of SEC Schedule 13G as constituted on June 1, 1997. shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity. which are committed to strengthening the Licensed Marks and Name. The Controlled Affiliate further recognizes that its actions within its Service Area may affect the value of the Licensed Marks and Name nationwide. B. Controlled Affiliate shall at all times make proper service mark use of the Licensed Marks and Name, including but not C. Controlled Affiliate may not directly or indirectly use the Licensed Marks and Name in a manner that transfers or is D. If Controlled Affiliate meets the standards of 2E(1) but not 2E(2) above and any of Controlled Affiliate's advertising or (iii) A Person shall be deemed an Institutional Investor if (but only if) such Person (i) is an entity or group identified in the (iv) Noninstitutional Investor means any Person who is not an Institutional Investor. (v) Person shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, trust, association, joint venture or other entity, and 4. SERVICE MARK USE A. Controlled Affiliate recognizes the importance of a comprehensive national network of independent BCBSA licensees Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 Affiliate shall use its best efforts to promote and build the value of the Licensed Marks and Name. law or otherwise, the rights granted hereunder and any such act shall be voidable at the sole option of Plan or BCBSA. This Agreement and all rights and duties hereunder are personal to Controlled Affiliate. competition or passing off that may occur in relation to the Licensed Marks and Name. Controlled Affiliate shall not be entitled to require Plan or BCBSA to take any actions or institute any proceedings to prevent infringement, unfair competition or passing off by third parties. Controlled Affiliate agrees to render to Plan and BCBSA, without charge, all reasonable assistance in connection with any matter pertaining to the protection of the Licensed Marks and Name by BCBSA. damages, liabilities and costs of every kind, nature and description (except those arising solely as a result of BCBSA's negligence) that may arise as a result of or related to: (i) Controlled Affiliate's rendering of services under the Licensed Marks and Name or (ii) the activities of any hospital, medical group, clinic or other provider of health services that is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by Plan or Controlled Affiliate. year and shall be automatically extended for additional one (1) year periods unless terminated pursuant to the provisions herein. any party or entity in the event that: (i) the Plan ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Marks and Name or (ii) pursuant to Paragraph 15(a)(x) of the Blue Cross License Agreement the Plan ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Names and Marks in the geographic area served by the Controlled Affiliate provided, however, that if the Controlled Affiliate is serving more than one State or portions thereof, the termination of this Agreement shall be E. Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan s License Agreement with BCBSA or in this Agreement, Controlled 5. SUBLICENSING AND ASSIGNMENT Controlled Affiliate shall not, directly or indirectly, sublicense, transfer, hypothecate, sell, encumber or mortgage, by operation of 6. INFRINGEMENT Controlled Affiliate shall promptly notify Plan and Plan shall promptly notify BCBSA of any suspected acts of infringement, unfair 7. LIABILITY INDEMNIFICATION Controlled Affiliate and Plan hereby agree to save, defend, indemnify and hold BCBSA harmless from and against all claims, 8. LICENSE TERM A. Except as otherwise provided herein, the license granted by this Agreement shall remain in effect for a period of one (1) B. This Agreement and all of Controlled Affiliate's rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 forthwith terminated by the Plan or the affirmative vote of the majority of the Board of Directors of BCBSA present and voting at a special meeting expressly called by BCBSA for the purpose on ten (10) days written notice to the Plan advising of the specific matters at issue and granting the Plan an opportunity to be heard and to present its response to the Board for: (1) failure to comply with any applicable minimum capital or liquidity requirement under the quality control standards of this Agreement or (2) failure to comply with the "Organization and Governance" quality control standard of this Agreement or (3) impending financial insolvency or (4) for a Smaller Controlled Affiliate (as defined in Exhibit A), failure to comply with any of the applicable requirements of Standards 2, 3, 4, 5 or 7 of attached Exhibit A or (5) the pendency of any action instituted against the Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business or seeking the declaration or establishment of a trust for any of its property or business, unless this Controlled Affiliate License Agreement has been earlier terminated under paragraph 8(E) or (6) failure by a Controlled Affiliate that meets the standards of 2E(1) but not 2E(2) above to obtain BCBSA's written consent to a change in the identity of any owner, in the extent of ownership, or in the identity of any person or entity with the authority to select or appoint members or board members, provided that as to publicly traded Controlled Affiliates this provision shall apply only if the change affects a person or entity that owns at least 5% of the Controlled Affiliate's stock before or after the change or (7) such other reason as is determined in good faith immediately and irreparably to threaten the integrity and reputation of BCBSA, the Plans, any other licensee including Controlled Affiliate and or the Licensed Marks and Name. limited to the State(s) or portions thereof in which the Plan s license to use the Licensed Marks and Names is terminated. By not appealing or challenging such regulatory action within the time prescribed by law or regulation, and in any event no later than 120 days after such action is taken, a Plan shall be deemed to have exhausted its rights to appeal or challenge, and automatic termination shall proceed. provisions of this Agreement and not cure such failure within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice thereof (or commence a cure within such thirty day period and continue diligent efforts to complete the cure if such curing cannot reasonably be completed within such thirty day period) BCBSA or the Plan shall have the right to issue a notice that the Controlled Affiliate is in a state of noncompliance. If a state of noncompliance as aforesaid is undisputed by the Controlled Affiliate or is found to exist by a mandatory dispute resolution panel and is uncured as provided above, BCBSA shall have the right to seek judicial enforcement of the Agreement or to issue a notice of termination thereof. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, any disputes as to the termination of this License pursuant to Paragraphs 8(B), 8(C) or 8(E) of this Agreement shall not be subject to mediation and mandatory dispute resolution. All other disputes between BCBSA, the Plan and or Controlled Affiliate shall be submitted promptly to mediation and mandatory dispute C. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, this license to use the Licensed Marks and Name may be D. Except as otherwise provided in Paragraphs 8(B), 8(C) or 8(E) herein, should Controlled Affiliate fail to comply with the Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 resolution. The mandatory dispute resolution panel shall have authority to issue orders for specific performance and assess monetary penalties. Except, however, as provided in Paragraphs 8(B) and 8(E) of this Agreement, this license to use the Licensed Marks and Name may not be finally terminated for any reason without the affirmative vote of a majority of the present and voting members of the Board of Directors of BCBSA. any party or entity in the event that: royalties for this License Agreement, are more than sixty (60) days in arrears to BCBSA or reorganization, arrangement with creditors or other relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or any other law governing insolvency or debtor relief, or (ii) an involuntary petition or proceeding shall be filed against Controlled Affiliate seeking bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement with creditors or other relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or any other law governing insolvency or debtor relief and such petition or proceeding is consented to or acquiesced in by Controlled Affiliate or is not dismissed within sixty (60) days of the date upon which the petition or other document commencing the proceeding is served upon the Controlled Affiliate, or (iii) an order for relief is entered against Controlled Affiliate in any case under the bankruptcy laws of the United States, or Controlled Affiliate is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent as those terms are defined in the Uniform Commercial Code as enacted in the State of Illinois by any court of competent jurisdiction, or (iv) Controlled Affiliate makes a general assignment of its assets for the benefit of creditors, or (v) any government or any government official, office, agency, branch, or unit assumes control of Controlled Affiliate or delinquency proceedings (voluntary or involuntary) are instituted, or (vi) an action is brought by Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking the appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business, or (i) an action is instituted by any governmental entity or officer against Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking the appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business and such action is consented to or acquiesced in by Controlled Affiliate or is not dismissed within one hundred thirty (130) days of the date upon which the pleading or other document commencing the action is served upon the Controlled Affiliate, provided that if the action is stayed or its prosecution is enjoined, the one hundred thirty (130) day period is tolled for the duration of the stay or injunction, and provided further, that the Association s Board of Directors may toll or extend the 130 day period at any time prior to its expiration, or (viii) a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of Controlled Affiliate's property or business is appointed or the Controlled Affiliate is ordered dissolved or liquidated. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, a declaration or a request for declaration of the existence of a trust over any of the Controlled Affiliate s property or business shall not in itself be deemed to E. This Agreement and all of Controlled Affiliate's rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by (1) Controlled Affiliate shall no longer comply with item 2(E) above (2) Appropriate dues, royalties and other payments for Controlled Affiliate pursuant to paragraph 10 hereof, which are the (3) Any of the following events occur: (i) a voluntary petition shall be filed by Controlled Affiliate seeking bankruptcy, Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 constitute or seek appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for purposes of subparagraphs 8(E)(3)(vii) and (viii) of this Agreement. case, the licenses of any controlled Affiliates directly or indirectly owned by the terminated for profit, publicly traded Controlled Affiliate also shall immediately terminate as provided for in paragraph 3A(4) of this Agreement discontinue all use of the Licensed Marks and Name, including any use in its trade name. licensee of BCBSA and, if directed by the Association s Board of Directors, shall provide instruction on how the customer can contact BCBSA or a designated licensee to obtain further information on securing coverage. The notification required by this paragraph shall be in writing and in a form approved by BCBSA. The BCBSA shall have the right to audit the terminated entity's books and records to verify compliance with this paragraph. Controlled Affiliate (as defined in Exhibit A), upon termination of this Agreement, the provisions of Paragraph 8.G. shall not apply and the following provisions shall apply, except that, in the event of a partial termination of this Agreement pursuant to Paragraph 8(B)(ii) of this Agreement, the notices, national account listing, payment, and audit right listed below shall be applicable solely with respect to the geographic area for which the Plan s license to use the Licensed Names and Marks is terminated: individual and group customers, providers, brokers and agents of products or services sold, marketed, underwritten or administered by the Controlled Affiliate under the Licensed Marks and Name. The form and content of the notice shall be specified by BCBSA and shall, at a minimum, notify the recipient of the termination of the license, the consequences thereof, and instructions for obtaining alternate products or services licensed by BCBSA, subject to any conflicting state law and state regulatory requirements. This notice shall be mailed within 15 days after termination. accounts in which the Controlled Affiliate is involved (in a control, participating or servicing capacity), identifying the national account and the Controlled Affiliate s role therein. (4) The for-profit, publicly traded Controlled Affiliate is terminated pursuant to Paragraph 3A(4) of this Agreement. In which F. Upon termination of this Agreement for cause or otherwise, Controlled Affiliate agrees that it shall immediately G. Upon termination of this Agreement, Controlled Affiliate shall immediately notify all of its customers that it is no longer a H. In the event this Agreement terminates pursuant to 8(b) hereof, or in the event the Controlled Affiliate is a Larger (1) The Controlled Affiliate shall send a notice through the U.S. mails, with first class postage affixed, to all (2) The Controlled Affiliate shall deliver to BCBSA within five days of a request by BCBSA a listing of national Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 The Re-Establishment Fee shall be indexed to a base fee of 80. The Re-Establishment Fee through December 31, 2005 shall be 80. The Re-Establishment Fee for calendar years after December 31, 2005 shall be adjusted on January 1 of each calendar year up to and including January 1, 2010 and shall be the base fee multiplied by 100% plus the cumulative percentage increase or decrease in the Plans gross administrative expense (standard BCBSA definition) per Licensed Enrollee since December 31, 2004. The adjustment shall end on January 1, 2011, at which time the Re-Establishment Fee shall be fixed at the then-current amount and no longer automatically adjusted. For example, if the Plans gross administrative expense per Licensed Enrollee was 278.60, 285.00 and 290.00 for calendar year end 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively, the January 1, 2007 Re-Establishment Fee would be 83.27 (100% of base fee plus 1.84 for calendar year 2005 and 1.43 for calendar year 2006. Licensed Enrollee means each and every person and covered dependent who is enrolled as an individual or member of a group receiving products or services sold, marketed or administered under marks or names licensed by BCBSA as determined at the earlier of (i) the end of the last fiscal year of the terminated entity which ended prior to termination or (ii) the fiscal year which ended before any transactions causing the termination began. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount payable pursuant to this subparagraph H. (3) shall be due only to the extent that, in BCBSA s opinion, it does not cause the net worth of the Controlled Affiliate, the Plan or any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Plan to fall below 100% of the Health Risk-Based Capital formula, or its equivalent under any successor formula, as set forth in the applicable financial responsibility standards established by BCBSA (provided such equivalent is approved for purposes of this sub paragraph by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans) measured as of the date of termination, and adjusted for the value of any transactions not made in the ordinary course of business. This payment shall not be due in connection with transactions exclusively by or among Plans or their affiliates, including reorganizations, combinations or mergers, where the BCBSA Board of Directors determines that the license termination does not result in a material diminution in the number of Licensed Enrollees or the extent of their coverage. At least 50% of the Re-Establishment Fee shall be awarded to the Plan (or Plans) that receive the new license(s) for the service area(s) at issue provided, however, that such award shall not become due or payable until all disputes, if any, regarding the amount of and BCBSA s right to such Re-Establishment Fee have been finally resolved and provided license agreement with BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Name, the Controlled Affiliate, the Plan, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Plan shall be jointly liable for payment to BCBSA of an amount equal to the Re-Establishment Fee (described below) multiplied by the number of Licensed Enrollees of the Controlled Affiliate provided that if any other Plan is permitted by BCBSA to use marks or names licensed by BCBSA in the Service Area established by this Agreement, the Re-Establishment Fee shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of Licensed Enrollees of the Controlled Affiliate, the Plan, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates and the denominator of which is the total number of Licensed Enrollees in the Service Area. (3) Unless the cause of termination is an event respecting BCBSA stated in paragraph 15(a) or (b) of the Plan s Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 further that the award shall be based on the final amount actually received by BCBSA. The Board of Directors shall adopt a resolution which it may amend from time to time that shall govern BCBSA s use of its portion of the award. In the event that the Controlled Affiliate s license is reinstated by BCBSA or is deemed to have remained in effect without interruption by a court of competent jurisdiction, BCBSA shall reimburse the Controlled Affiliate (and or the Plan or its other Licensed Controlled Affiliates, as the case may be) for payments made under this subparagraph 8.H.(3) only to the extent that such payments exceed the amounts due to BCBSA pursuant to paragraph 8.M. and any cost associated with reestablishing the Service Area, including any payments made by BCBSA to a Plan or Plans (or their Licensed Controlled Affiliates) for purposes of replacing the Controlled Affiliate. to examine and audit the books and records of the Controlled Affiliate, the Plan, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Plan to verify compliance with this paragraph 8.H. shall have an ongoing and continuing obligation to protect all BCBSA and Blue Licensee data that was acquired or accessed during the period this Agreement was in force, including but not limited to all confidential processes, pricing, provider, discount and other strategic and competitively sensitive information ( Blue Information ) from disclosure, and shall not, either alone or with another entity, disclose such Blue Information or use it in any manner to compete without the express written permission of BCBSA. a court of competent jurisdiction. As to a breach of 8.H.(1), (2) or (4) by the Controlled Affiliate, the parties agree there is no adequate remedy at law and BCBSA is entitled to obtain specific performance. eighteen (18) months written notice to the Association or upon a shorter notice period approved by BCBSA in writing at its sole discretion, or until terminated as otherwise provided herein. The Plan s right to terminate without cause upon such notice is unfettered and may be exercised in the Plan s sole discretion. Affiliate agrees to be jointly liable for the amount described in H.3.and M. hereof upon termination of the BCBSA license agreement of any Larger Controlled Affiliate of the Plan. from entry into any transaction which would result in a termination of this Agreement unless the Plan s license from BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Names has been terminated pursuant to 10(d) of the Plan s license agreement upon the required 18 months written notice. (4) BCBSA shall have the right to examine and audit and or hire at terminated entity s expense a third party auditor (5) Subsequent to termination of this Agreement, the terminated entity and its affiliates, agents, and employees I. This Agreement shall remain in effect until terminated by the Controlled Affiliate or the Plan upon not less than J. In the event the Controlled Affiliate is a Smaller Controlled Affiliate (as defined in Exhibit A), the Controlled K. BCBSA shall be entitled to enjoin the Controlled Affiliate or any related party in a court of competent jurisdiction (6) As to a breach of 8.H.(1), (2), (3), (4) or (5) the parties agree that the obligations are immediately enforceable in Amended as March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 2(E)(2) above and is a Larger Controlled Affiliate (as defined in Exhibit A), then the vote called for in Paragraphs 8(C) and 8(D) above shall require the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans. remained in effect without interruption by a court of competent jurisdiction, the Controlled Affiliate, the Plan, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Plan shall be jointly liable for reimbursing BCBSA the reasonable costs incurred by BCBSA in connection with the termination and the reinstatement or court action, and any associated legal proceedings, including but not limited to: outside legal fees, consulting fees, public relations fees, advertising costs, and costs incurred to develop, lease or establish an interim provider network. Any amount due to BCBSA under this subparagraph may be waived in whole or in part by the BCBSA Board of Directors in its sole discretion. Affiliates of Plans that use in any manner the Blue Shield and Blue Shield Marks and Name are subject to the Mediation and Mandatory Dispute Resolution process attached to and made a part of Plan's License from BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Name as Exhibit 5 as amended from time- to-time, which documents are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth herein. between Plan and Controlled Affiliate or between either and BCBSA. in duplicate to the last known address of each other party, marked respectively to the attention of its President and, if any, its General Counsel. 9. DISPUTE RESOLUTION The parties agree that any disputes between them or between or among either of them and one or more Plans or Controlled 10. LICENSE FEE Controlled Affiliate will pay to BCBSA a fee for this License determined pursuant to the formula(s) set forth in Exhibit C. 11. JOINT VENTURE Nothing contained in the Agreement shall be construed as creating a joint venture, partnership, agency or employment relationship 12. NOTICES AND CORRESPONDENCE Notices regarding the subject matter of this Agreement or breach or termination thereof shall be in writing and shall be addressed L. BCBSA acknowledges that it is not the owner of assets of the Controlled Affiliate. M. In the event that the Plan has more than 50 percent voting control of the Controlled Affiliate under Paragraph N. In the event this Agreement terminates and is subsequently reinstated by BCBSA or is deemed to have Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 only be amended by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans as officially recorded by the BCBSA Corporate Secretary. remaining obligations of the parties hereunder and the court may substitute a lawful term or condition for any unlawful term or condition so long as the effect of such substitution is to provide the parties with the benefits of this Agreement. terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach or default in performance of said terms, covenants or conditions. For all provisions of this Agreement referring to voting, the term Plans shall mean all entities licensed under the Blue Cross License Agreement and or the Blue Shield License Agreement, and in all votes of the Plans under this Agreement the Plans shall vote together. For weighted votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have a number of votes equal to the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Cross Plan plus the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Shield Plan. For all other votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have one vote. For all questions requiring an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote of the Plans, the requirement shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless the greater of: (i) 6 52 or more of the Plans (rounded to the nearest whole number, with 0.5 or multiples thereof being rounded to the next higher whole number) fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question or (ii) three (3) of the Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, if there are thirty-nine (39) Plans, the requirement of an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless four (4) or more Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. This Agreement contains the complete understandings of the parties in relation to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may 13. COMPLETE AGREEMENT 14. SEVERABILITY If any term of this Agreement is held to be unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction, such findings shall in no way affect the 15. NONWAIVER No waiver by BCBSA of any breach or default in performance on the part of Controlled Affiliate or any other licensee of any of the 15A. VOTING Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY BLANK. Exhibit 10.12 signature written below. Controlled Affiliate: Date: Date: BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION Date: 16. GOVERNING LAW This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of Illinois. 17. HEADINGS The headings inserted in this agreement are for convenience only and shall have no bearing on the interpretation hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this License Agreement to be executed and effective as of the date of last Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE STANDARDS November 2019 PREAMBLE For purposes of definition: A "smaller Controlled Affiliate:" (1) comprises less than fifteen percent (15%) of Sponsoring Plan's and its licensed Controlled Affiliates' total member enrollment (as reported on the BCBSA Quarterly Enrollment Report, excluding rider and freestanding coverage, and treating an entity seeking licensure as licensed) or (2) underwrites the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance and has total premium revenue less than 15 percent of the Sponsoring Plan s net subscription revenue. A "larger Controlled Affiliate" comprises fifteen percent (15%) or more of Sponsoring Plan's and its licensed Controlled Affiliates' total member enrollment (as reported on the BCBSA Quarterly Enrollment Report, excluding rider and freestanding coverage, and treating an entity seeking licensure as licensed.) Changes in Controlled Affiliate status: If any Controlled Affiliate's status changes regarding: its Plan ownership level, its risk acceptance or direct delivery of medical care, the Controlled Affiliate shall notify BCBSA within thirty (30) days of such occurrence in writing and come into compliance with the applicable standards within six (6) months. If a smaller Controlled Affiliate s health and workers compensation administration business reaches or surpasses fifteen percent (15%) of the total member enrollment of the Sponsoring Plan and licensed Controlled Affiliates, the Controlled Affiliate shall: Amended as of September 19, 2014 Exhibit 10.12 EXHIBIT A (continued) 1. Within thirty (30) days, notify BCBSA of this fact in writing, including evidence that the Controlled Affiliate meets the minimum liquidity and capital (BCBSA Health Risk-Based Capital (HRBC) as defined by the NAIC and state-established minimum reserve) requirements of the larger Controlled Affiliate Financial Responsibility standard and 2. Within six (6) months after reaching or surpassing the fifteen percent (15%) threshold, demonstrate compliance with all license requirements for a larger Controlled Affiliate. If a Controlled Affiliate that underwrites the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance receives a change in rating or proposed change in rating, the Controlled Affiliate shall notify BCBSA within 30 days of notification by the external rating agency. For purposes of this calculation, The numerator equals: Applicant Controlled Affiliate's member enrollment, as defined in BCBSA's Quarterly Enrollment Report (excluding rider and freestanding coverage). The denominator equals: Numerator PLUS Sponsoring Plan and all other licensed Controlled Affiliates' member enrollment, as reported in BCBSA's Quarterly Enrollment Report (excluding rider and freestanding coverage). Amended as of September 19, 2014 Exhibit 10.12 Controlled Affiliate underwrites any indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance Standards 7A-7E, 11  Each licensed controlled affiliate shall be subject to certain standards as determined below: 1. What percent of the licensed controlled affiliate is controlled by the Sponsoring Plan and other Plans? 2. Is risk being assumed? 3. Is medical care being directly provided as a staff model HMO? EXHIBIT A (continued) More than 50% by Sponsoring Plan Standard 1A, 4 Controlled Affiliate comprises 15% of total member enrollment of Sponsoring Plan and its licensed affiliates, and does not underwrite the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance Standard 2 (Guidelines 1.1,1.2) and Standard 11 50% by Sponsoring Standard 1B, 4 Standard 3A STANDARDS FOR LICENSED CONTROLLED AFFILIATES Controlled Affiliate comprises 15% of total member enrollment of Sponsoring Plan and its licensed affiliates, and does not underwrite the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance Standard 6H Advantage HMO and or 100% Plan Control but Special Need Plans products and services Medicare Advantage Control and it offers less than 50% Sponsoring Plan solely Medicaid, PPO, Medicare -20- Amended as of June 20, 2019 Standard 1C, 4 IN ADDITION, IN ADDITION,  Controlled Affiliate comprises 15% of total member enrollment of Sponsoring Plan and its licensed affiliates Standard 2 (Guidelines 1.1,1.3) and Standard 11 100% Sponsoring Plan control and on a Blue- branded basis, it only offers Basic Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan Standard 1D, 4 Controlled Affiliate comprises 15% of total member enrollment of Sponsoring Plan and its licensed affiliates Standard 6H At least 50% by Sponsoring Plan or operational Control by Sponsoring Plan and it solely operates as a Clinic as defined Standard 3B in Standard 1E. Standard 1E, 4 Exhibit 10.12 Each licensed controlled affiliate shall be subject to certain standards as determined below: 4. Is the licensed controlled affiliate operating as a Clinic, as defined in Standard 1(E)? 5. If the controlled affiliate has health or workers compensation administration business, does such business comprise 15% or more of the total member enrollment of Plan and its licensed Controlled Affiliates? EXHIBIT A (continued) Standards 6A-6J Controlled Affiliate is not a former primary licensee and is not subject to Standard 1(C) Standards 5,8,9B,10,11 STANDARDS FOR LICENSED CONTROLLED AFFILIATES Controlled Affiliate is a former primary licensee Standards 5,8,9A,10,11 IN ADDITION, Controlled Affiliate is not a former primary licensee and is subject to Standard 1(C) Standards 5,8,9B,11 Amended as of June 20, 2019 Exhibit 10.12 A Controlled Affiliate shall be organized and operated in such a manner that a Plan authorized to use the Licensed Marks in the Service Area of the Controlled Affiliate pursuant to the separate Primary License Agreement with BCBSA has the legal authority, directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: 1) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body having more than 50% voting control thereof and 2) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with which the Sponsoring Plan do not concur and 3) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries shall own more than 50% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. 1B.) The Standard for 50% Plan control is: 1) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body having not less than 50% voting control thereof and 2) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate with which the Sponsoring Plan do not concur and 3) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate at least equal to that exercised by persons or entities (jointly or individually) other than the Sponsoring Plan. EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 1 - Organization and Governance 1A.) The Standard for more than 50% Plan control is: A Controlled Affiliate shall be organized and operated in such a manner that a Plan authorized to use the Licensed Marks in the Service Area of the Controlled Affiliate pursuant to the separate Primary License Agreement with BCBSA has the legal authority, directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: Amended September 19, 2014 Exhibit 10.12 EXHIBIT A (continued) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in 1) through 3) hereof, the Controlled Affiliate s establishing or governing documents must also require written approval by the Sponsoring Plan before the Controlled Affiliate can: In addition, the Sponsoring Plan directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries shall own at least 50% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. change the geographic area in which it operates change its legal and or trade names change any of the types of businesses in which it engages create, or become liable for by way of guarantee, any indebtedness, other than indebtedness arising in the ordinary course of business sell any assets, except for sales in the ordinary course of business or sales of equipment no longer useful or being replaced make any loans or advances except in the ordinary course of business enter into any arrangement or agreement with any party directly or indirectly affiliated with any of the owners or persons or entities with the authority to select or appoint members or board members of the Controlled Affiliate, other than the Sponsoring Plan or other Plans (excluding owners of stock holdings of under 5% in a publicly traded Controlled Affiliate) conduct any business other than under the Licensed Marks and Name take any action that the Sponsoring Plan or BCBSA reasonably believes will adversely affect the Licensed Marks and Name. Amended September 27, 2018 Exhibit 10.12 1C.) The Standard for a Controlled Affiliate that offers solely Medicaid, Medicare Advantage PPO, Medicare Advantage HMO and or Special Need Plans products and service and has100% Plan control but less than 50% Sponsoring Plan Control: A Controlled Affiliate shall be organized and operated in such a manner that (i) it offers solely Medicaid, Medicare Advantage PPO, Medicare Advantage HMO and or Special Need Plans products and services and (ii) a Plan authorized to use the Licensed Marks in the Service Area of the Controlled Affiliate pursuant to the separate Primary License Agreement with BCBSA (the Sponsoring Plan,) has the legal authority together with Other Plans: 1) to select all members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body and 2) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws, or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate and 3) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans shall own 100% of any for- profit Controlled Affiliate, with the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans each having an ownership interest. Such 100% control and ownership by Plans shall be direct or, if indirect, solely through affiliates that are licensed to use marks owned by BCBSA. Further, the Sponsoring Plan and such other Plans shall execute the Addendum to Controlled Affiliate License. 1D). The Standard for a Controlled Affiliate that on a Blue-branded basis, only offers a Basic Medicare Part D Prescription Drug product and has 100% Plan control is: A Controlled Affiliate shall be organized and operated in such a manner that (i) on a Blue-branded basis, it only offers a Basic Medicare Part D Prescription Drug product and (ii) the Sponsoring Plan has the legal authority: 1) to select all members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body and 2) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate and 3) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate. In addition, the Sponsoring Plan shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. Such 100% control and ownership by Sponsoring Plan must be direct or, if indirect, solely through affiliates that are licensed to use marks owned by BCBSA. Further, the Sponsoring Plan and Participating Plan shall execute the Addendum to Controlled Affiliate License. Exhibit 10.12 1E). The Standard for a Controlled Affiliate that operates as a Clinic and the Sponsoring Plan has control of the Clinic is: A Controlled Affiliate shall be organized in such a manner that it operates as a Clinic and Sponsoring Plan exercises operational control over the Controlled Affiliate. In addition, if the Clinic is for-profit, the Sponsoring Plan shall own at least 50% of the Controlled Affiliate and prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the Controlled Affiliate. Amended June 20, 2019 Exhibit 10.12 EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 2 - Financial Responsibility A Controlled Affiliate shall be operated in a manner that provides reasonable financial assurance that it can fulfill all of its contractual obligations to its customers. If a risk-assuming Controlled Affiliate ceases operations for any reason, Blue Cross and or Blue Cross Plan coverage will be offered to all Controlled Affiliate subscribers without exclusions, limitations or conditions based on health status. If a nonrisk-assuming Controlled Affiliate ceases operations for any reason, Sponsoring Plan will provide for services to its customers. The requirements of the preceding two sentences shall apply to all lines of business unless a line of business is specially exempted from the requirement(s) by the BCBSA Board of Directors. Standard 3 - State Licensure Certification 3A.) The Standard for a Controlled Affiliate that employs, owns or contracts on a substantially exclusive basis for medical services is: A Controlled Affiliate shall maintain unimpaired licensure or certification for its medical care providers to operate under applicable state laws. 3B.) The Standard for a Controlled Affiliate that does not employ, own or contract on a substantially exclusive basis for medical services is: A Controlled Affiliate shall maintain unimpaired licensure or certification to operate under applicable state laws. 3C.) The Standard for a Controlled Affiliate that operates as a Clinic as defined in Standard 1(E) is: A Controlled Affiliate shall maintain appropriate and unimpaired licensure and certifications. Standard 4 - Certain Disclosures A Controlled Affiliate shall make adequate disclosure in contracting with third parties and in disseminating public statements of 1) the structure of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield System and 2) the independent nature of every licensee and 3) the Controlled Affiliate's financial condition. Amended as of June 20, 2019 Exhibit 10.12 EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 5 - Reports and Records for Certain Smaller Controlled Affiliates For a smaller Controlled Affiliate that does not underwrite the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance, the Standard is: A Controlled Affiliate and or its Sponsoring licensed Plan shall furnish, on a timely and accurate basis, reports and records relating to these Standards and the License Agreements between BCBSA and Controlled Affiliate. Standard 6 - Other Standards for Larger Controlled Affiliates Standards 6(A) - (I) that follow apply to larger Controlled Affiliates. Standard 6(A): Board of Directors A Controlled Affiliate Governing Board shall act in the interest of its Corporation in providing cost-effective health care services to its customers. A Controlled Affiliate shall maintain a governing Board, which shall control the Controlled Affiliate, composed of a majority of persons other than providers of health care services, who shall be known as public members. A public member shall not be an employee of or have a financial interest in a health care provider, nor be a member of a profession which provides health care services. Standard 6(B): Responsiveness to Customers A Controlled Affiliate shall be operated in a manner responsive to customer needs and requirements. Standard 6(C): Participation in National Programs A Controlled Affiliate shall effectively and efficiently participate in each national program as from time to time may be adopted by the Member Plans for the purposes of providing portability of membership between the licensees and ease of claims processing for customers receiving benefits outside of the Controlled Affiliate's Service Area. Amended as of September 19, 2014 Exhibit 10.12 5. Inter-Plan Medicare Advantage Program. Standard 6(D): Financial Performance Requirements In addition to requirements under the national programs listed in Standard 6C: Participation in National Programs, a Controlled Affiliate shall take such action as required to ensure its financial performance in programs and contracts of an inter-licensee nature or where BCBSA is a party. Standard 6(E): Cooperation with Plan Performance Response Process A Controlled Affiliate shall cooperate with BCBSA's Board of Directors and its Brand Enhancement & Protection Committee in the administration of the Plan Performance Response Process and in addressing Controlled Affiliate performance problems identified thereunder. Standard 6(F): Independent Financial Rating A Controlled Affiliate shall obtain a rating of its financial strength from an independent rating agency approved by BCBSA's Board of Directors for such purpose. Standard 6(G): Local and National Best Efforts Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan s License Agreement with BCBSA or in this License Agreement, during each year, a Controlled Affiliate shall use its best efforts to promote and build the value of the Blue Shield Mark. EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 6(C): Participation in National Programs (continued) Such programs are applicable to licensees, and include: 1. BlueCard Program 2. Inter-Plan Teleprocessing System (ITS) 3. National Account Programs 4. Business Associate Agreement for Blue Cross and Blue Shield Licensees, effective April 14, 2003 and Amended as of November 21, 2014 Exhibit 10.12 EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 6(H): Financial Responsibility A Controlled Affiliate shall be operated in a manner that provides reasonable financial assurance that it can fulfill all of its contractual obligations to its customers. Standard 6(I): Reports and Records A Controlled Affiliate shall furnish to BCBSA on a timely and accurate basis reports and records relating to compliance with these Standards and the License Agreements between BCBSA and Controlled Affiliate. Such reports and records are the following: A) BCBSA Controlled Affiliate Licensure Information Request and B) Triennial trade name and service mark usage material, including disclosure material and C) Changes in the ownership and governance of the Controlled Affiliate, including changes in its charter, articles of incorporation, or bylaws, changes in a Controlled Affiliate's Board composition, or changes in the identity of the Controlled Affiliate's Principal Officers, and changes in risk acceptance, contract growth, or direct delivery of medical care and D) Semi-annual Health Risk-Based Capital (HRBC) Report as defined by the NAIC, Annual Certified Audit Report, Insurance Department Examination Report, Annual Statement filed with State Insurance Department (with all attachments), and Amended as of November 17, 2011 Exhibit 10.12 EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 6(J): Control by Unlicensed Entities Prohibited No Controlled Affiliate shall cause or permit an entity other than a Plan or a Licensed Controlled Affiliate thereof to obtain control of the Controlled Affiliate or to acquire a substantial portion of its assets related to licensable services. Standard 7 - Other Standards for Risk-Assuming Workers Compensation Controlled Affiliates Standards 7(A) - (E) that follow apply to Controlled Affiliates that underwrite the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance. Standard 7 (A): Financial Responsibility A Controlled Affiliate shall be operated in a manner that provides reasonable financial assurance that it can fulfill all of its contractual obligations to its customers. Standard 7(B): Reports and Records A Controlled Affiliate shall furnish, on a timely and accurate basis, reports and records relating to compliance with these Standards and the License Agreements between BCBSA and the Controlled Affiliate. Such reports and records are the following: A. BCBSA Controlled Affiliate Licensure Information Request and B. Triennial trade name and service mark usage materials, including disclosure materials and C. Annual Certified Audit Report, Annual Statement as filed with the State Insurance Department (with all attachments), Annual NAIC s Risk-Based Capital Worksheets for Property and Casualty Insurers and D. Quarterly Estimated Risk-Based Capital for Property and Casualty Insurers, Insurance Department Examination Report and Amended as of November 17, 2011 Exhibit 10.12 Standard 7(C): Loss Prevention A Controlled Affiliate shall apply loss prevention protocol to both new and existing business. Standard 7(D): Claims Administration A Controlled Affiliate shall maintain an effective claims administration process that includes all the necessary functions to assure prompt and proper resolution of medical and indemnity claims. Standard 7(E): Disability and Provider Management A Controlled Affiliate shall arrange for the provision of appropriate and necessary medical and rehabilitative services to facilitate early intervention by medical professionals and timely and appropriate return to work. EXHIBIT A (continued) E. Notification of all changes and proposed changes to independent ratings within 30 days of receipt and submission of a copy of all rating reports and F. Changes in the ownership and governance of the Controlled Affiliate including changes in its charter, articles of incorporation, or bylaws, changes in a Controlled Affiliate s Board composition, Plan control, state license status, operating area, the Controlled Affiliate s Principal Officers or direct delivery of medical care. Amended as of November 16, 2000 Exhibit 10.12 A smaller controlled affiliate that formerly was a Primary Licensee shall effectively and efficiently participate in certain national programs from time to time as may be adopted by Member Plans for the purposes of providing ease of claims processing for customers receiving benefits outside of the Controlled Affiliate s service area and be subject to certain relevant financial and reporting requirements. A. National program requirements include: BlueCard Program EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 8 - Cooperation with Controlled Affiliate License Performance Response Process Protocol A Controlled Affiliate and its Sponsoring Plan shall cooperate with BCBSA s Board of Directors and its Brand Enhancement & Protection Committee in the administration of the Controlled Affiliate License Performance Response Process Protocol (ALPRPP) and in addressing Controlled Affiliate compliance problems identified thereunder. Standard 9(A) - Participation in National Programs by Smaller Controlled Affiliates that were former Primary Licensees B. Financial Requirements include: Standard 6(D): Financial Performance Requirements and Standard 6(H): Financial Responsibility or Inter-Plan Teleprocessing System (ITS) National Account Programs. A financial guarantee covering the Controlled Affiliate s Inter-Plan Programs obligations in a form, and from a guarantor, acceptable to BCBSA. Amended as of November 21, 2014 Exhibit 10.12 EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 9(A) - Participation in National Programs by Smaller Controlled Affiliates that were former Primary Licensees C. Reporting requirements include: The Semi-annual Health Risk-Based Capital (HRBC) Report. Amended as of June 13, 2002 Exhibit 10.12 Exhibit A (continued) Standard 9(B) - Participation in National Programs by Smaller Controlled Affiliates A smaller controlled affiliate shall participate in national programs in accordance with BlueCard and other relevant Policies and Provisions shall effectively and efficiently participate in national programs from time to time as may be adopted by Member Plans for the purposes of providing ease of claims processing for customers receiving benefits outside of the controlled affiliate s service area and be subject to certain relevant financial and reporting requirements. A. National program requirements include: BlueCard Program B. Financial Requirements include: Standard 6(D): Financial Performance Requirements and Standard 6(H): Financial Responsibility or A financial guarantee covering the Controlled Affiliate s Inter-Plan Programs obligations in a form, and from a guarantor, acceptable to BCBSA. Inter-Plan Teleprocessing System (ITS) National Account Programs. Amended as of June 20, 2013 Exhibit 10.12 A smaller controlled affiliate for which this standard applies pursuant to the Preamble section of Exhibit A of the Controlled Affiliate License Agreement shall effectively and efficiently participate in certain national programs from time to time as may be adopted by Member Plans for the purposes of providing ease of claims processing for customers receiving benefits outside of the controlled affiliate s service area. National program requirements include: EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 10 - Participation in Inter-Plan Medicare Advantage Program Standard 11: Participation in Master Business Associate Agreement by Smaller Controlled Affiliate Licensees Effective April 14, 2003, all smaller controlled affiliates shall comply with the terms of the Business Associate Agreement for Blue Cross and Blue Shield Licensees to the extent they perform the functions of a business associate or subcontractor to a business associate, as defined by the Business Associate Agreement. A. Inter-Plan Medicare Advantage Program. Amended as of September 19, 2014 Exhibit 10.12 WHEREAS, in such circumstance Controlled Affiliate License Standard 1C permits the licensing of a Controlled Affiliate that is less than 50% owned and controlled by the Sponsoring Plan but which is 100% owned and controlled by Plans including the Sponsoring Plan, subject to certain conditions WHEREAS, one such condition is that the Sponsoring Plan and all such other owning and controlling Plans enter into this Addendum EXHIBIT B-1 ADDENDUM TO CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE TO BE EXECUTED BY CONTROLLED AFFILIATES LICENSED UNDER CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE STANDARD 1C. This Addendum is made to that certain Blue Shield Controlled Affiliate License Agreement executed by and among Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ( Licensor ), ( Controlled Affiliate Licensee ) and ( Sponsoring Plan ) dated the day of , ( Agreement ). The parties to this Addendum are Licensor, Controlled Affiliate Licensee, Sponsoring Plan, and the undersigned other Plans ( Other Plans ). This Addendum is made and shall be deemed effective as of the date of the Agreement. WHEREAS, the Sponsoring Plan asserts that it can serve the Medicaid, Medicare Advantage PPO, Medicare Advantage HMO and or Special Need Plans market in its Service Area more efficiently and with less risk through an enterprise jointly owned and controlled with other Plans than through a wholly owned and Controlled Affiliate Licensee NOW THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, including the promises and covenants set forth herein, the parties agree as follows: 1. This Addendum is limited to [identify product name]. 2. The Sponsoring Plan shall participate operationally in Controlled Affiliate s business that is conducted under the Licensed Marks. The parties understand that participation may take many forms, one of which should be providing a network of providers in the Service Area of the Controlled Affiliate for the Medicaid, Medicare Advantage PPO, Medicare Advantage HMO and or Special Need Plans services being offered under the Agreement and being involved in network development and provider engagement functions. 3. Each of the Other Plans agrees that (i) it will cooperate fully with the Sponsoring Plan and BCBSA as needed to enable Sponsoring Plan and Controlled Affiliate Licensee to meet their obligations to Licensor under the Agreement and all associated rules and regulations of Licensor, including the Brand Regulations, (ii) it ADDENDUM TO CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE Exhibit 10.12 WHEREFORE, by signing below the parties agree to be bound to the terms stated herein. BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION [Controlled Affiliate Licensee] [Sponsoring Plan] [Other Plan 1] [Other Plan 2] 4. Each of the Other Plans acknowledges that it has reviewed the Agreement and understands that Sponsoring Plan has the right to terminate the Agreement without cause upon notice as provided in Paragraph 8 of the Agreement, and that such right is unfettered and may be exercised by Sponsoring Plan in its sole discretion. will not take any action, either individually or jointly with any of the Other Plans, that would cause Sponsoring Plan or Controlled Affiliate Licensee to violate the Agreement, and (iii) it will not fail to take any action, either individually or jointly with any of the Other Plans, where such failure would cause Sponsoring Plan or Controlled Affiliate Licensee to violate the Agreement. Amended as of September 27, 2018 Exhibit 10.12 EXHIBIT B-2 ADDENDUM TO CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE TO BE EXECUTED BY CONTROLLED AFFILIATES LICENSED UNDER CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE STANDARD 1D. This Addendum is made to that certain Blue Shield Controlled Affiliate License Agreement executed by and among Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ( Licensor ), ( Controlled Affiliate Licensee ), ( Sponsoring Plan ) and ( Participating Plan ) dated the day of , ( Agreement ). WHEREAS, the Participating Plan is defined as the Plan that holds the Primary License with BCBSA to use the Service Marks in the Service Area where the Controlled Affiliate will use the Service Marks WHEREAS, the Participating Plan asserts that it can offer a lower cost Basic Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan product more efficiently in the Participating Plan s Service Area through the Controlled Affiliate Licensee WHEREAS, the Controlled Affiliate shall only use the Service Marks inside of the Participating Plan(s) Service Area subject to each Participating Plan signing a separate Addendum WHEREAS, in such circumstance Controlled Affiliate License Standard 1D permits the licensing of a Controlled Affiliate that is 100% owned and controlled by a Sponsoring Plan, subject to certain conditions WHEREAS, one such condition is that the Sponsoring Plan, Controlled Affiliate and the Participating Plan enter into this Addendum NOW THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, including the promises and covenants set forth herein, the parties agree as follows: 1. The Participating Plan shall participate in Controlled Affiliate s business that is conducted under the Licensed Marks. The parties understand that the Participating Plan shall conduct sales support and marketing of the Controlled Affiliate s Basic Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan product offered in the Participating Plan s Service Area. Any other form of participation shall require BCBSA s written approval. 2. Participating Plan agrees that (i) it will cooperate fully with the Sponsoring Plan and BCBSA as needed to enable Sponsoring Plan and ADDENDUM TO CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE Exhibit 10.12 [Participating Plan] WHEREFORE, by signing below the parties agree to be bound to the terms stated herein. BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION [Controlled Affiliate Licensee] [Sponsoring Plan] 3. The Controlled Affiliate Licensee shall only use the Licensed Marks authorized by the Participating Plan in connection with the Basic Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan product offered in the Participating Plan s Service Area. 4. The Sponsoring Plan and Controlled Affiliate acknowledge that it has reviewed the Agreement and understands that Participating Plan has the right to terminate this Agreement: (i) immediately upon the expiration or termination of the Plan Participation Agreement by and between Participating Plan and Controlled Affiliate upon written notice to the Sponsoring Plan, Controlled Affiliate Licensee and Licensor, or (ii) without cause upon 18 months written notice to the Sponsoring Plan, Controlled Affiliate Licensee and Licensor, and that such right is unfettered and may be exercised by Participating Plan in its sole discretion. In the event that Participating Plan and Controlled Affiliate fail to execute the Plan Participation Agreement by (Date), Participating Plan may terminate this Agreement immediately upon notice to Sponsoring Plan, Controlled Affiliate Licensee and Licensor. 5. This Agreement and all of Controlled Affiliate Licensee's rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by any party or entity in the event that the Sponsoring Plan or Participating Plan ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Marks and Name. Controlled Affiliate Licensee to meet their obligations to Licensor under the Agreement and all associated rules and regulations of Licensor, including the Brand Regulations, (ii) it will not take any action that would cause Sponsoring Plan or Controlled Affiliate Licensee to violate the Agreement, and (iii) it will not fail to take any action, either individually or jointly with the Sponsoring Plan or Controlled Affiliate Licensee, where such failure would cause Sponsoring Plan or Controlled Affiliate Licensee to violate the Agreement. Amended March 17, 2016 Exhibit 10.12 EXHIBIT C ROYALTY FORMULA FOR SECTION 9 OF THE CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE AGREEMENT Controlled Affiliate will pay BCBSA a fee for this license in accordance with the following formula: FOR RISK PRODUCTS: For Controlled Affiliates not underwriting the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance: An amount equal to its pro rata share of Sponsoring Plan's dues payable to BCBSA computed with the addition of the Controlled Affiliate's members using the Marks on health care plans and related services as reported on the Quarterly Enrollment Report with BCBSA. The payment by Sponsoring Plan of its dues to BCBSA, including that portion described in this paragraph, will satisfy the requirement of this paragraph, and no separate payment will be necessary. For Controlled Affiliates underwriting the indemnity portion of workers compensation insurance: An amount equal to 0.35 percent of the gross revenue per annum of Controlled Affiliate arising from products using the marks plus, an annual fee of 5,000 per license for a Controlled Affiliate subject to Standard 7. Amended as of September, 19, 2014 Exhibit 10.12 FOR NONRISK PRODUCTS: The foregoing shall be reduced by one-half where both a BLUE CROSS and BLUE SHIELD License are issued to the same Controlled Affiliate. In the event that any license period is greater or less than one (1) year, any amounts due shall be prorated. Royalties under this formula will be calculated, billed and paid in arrears. EXHIBIT C (continued) For third-party administrative business, an amount equal to its pro rata share of Sponsoring Plan s dues payable to BCBSA computed with the addition of the Controlled Affiliate s members using the Marks on health care plans and related services as reported on the Quarterly Enrollment Report with BCBSA. The payment by Sponsoring Plan of its dues to BCBSA, including that portion described in this paragraph, will satisfy the requirement of this paragraph, and no separate payment will be necessary. For non-third party administrative business (e.g., case management, provider networks, etc.), an amount equal to 0.24 percent of the gross revenue per annum of Controlled Affiliate arising from products using the marks plus: 1) An annual fee of 5,000 per license for a Controlled Affiliate subject to Standard 6 D. 2) An annual fee of 2,000 per license for all other Controlled Affiliates. Amended as of September 19, 2014 Exhibit 10.12 WHEREAS, the Plan and the Controlled Affiliate desire that the latter be entitled to use the BLUE SHIELD and BLUE SHIELD Design service marks (collectively the "Licensed Marks") as service marks and be entitled to use the term BLUE SHIELD in a trade name ("Licensed Name") Affiliate of the Blue Shield Plan(s), known as ("Plan"). WHEREAS, BCBSA is the owner of the BLUE SHIELD and BLUE SHIELD Design service marks NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements hereinafter set forth and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows: use the licensed Marks and Names in connection with and only in connection with those life insurance and related services authorized by applicable state law, other than health care plans and related services (as defined in the Plan's License Agreements with BCBSA) which services are not separately licensed to Controlled Affiliate by BCBSA, in the Service Area served by the Plan, except that BCBSA reserves the right to use the Licensed Marks and Name in said Service Area, and except to the extent that said Service Area may overlap the area or areas served by one or more other licensed Blue Shield Plans as of the date of this License as to which overlapping areas the rights hereby granted are non-exclusive as to such other Plan or Plans and their respective Licensed Controlled Affiliates only. Controlled Affiliate cannot use the Licensed Marks or Name outside the Service Area or in its legal or trade name provided, however, that if and only for so long as Controlled Affiliate also holds a Blue Shield Affiliate License Agreement applicable to health care plans and related services, Controlled Affiliate may use the Licensed Marks and Name in its legal and trade name according to the terms of such license agreement. 1. GRANT OF LICENSE This agreement by and among Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ("BCBSA") ("Controlled Affiliate"), a Controlled Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, BCBSA hereby grants to the Controlled Affiliate the exclusive right to CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE AGREEMENT APPLICABLE TO LIFE INSURANCE COMPANIES (Includes revisions adopted by Member Plans through their November 21, 2019 meeting) Amended as of June 12, 2003 Exhibit 10.12 EXHIBIT 1A time-to-time, upon reasonable notice, review and inspect the manner and method of Controlled Affiliate's rendering of service and use of the Licensed Marks and Name. symbols or words as BCBSA shall specify to protect the Licensed Marks, and shall comply with such rules (applicable to all Controlled Affiliates licensed to use the Marks) relative to service mark use, as are issued from time-to-time by BCBSA. If there is any public reference to the affiliation between the Plan and the Controlled Affiliate, all of the Controlled Affiliate's licensed services in the Service Area of the Plan shall be rendered under the Licensed Marks. Controlled Affiliate recognizes and agrees that all use of the Licensed Marks by Controlled Affiliate shall inure to the benefit of BCBSA. BCBSA) a report to Plan and BCBSA demonstrating Controlled Affiliate's compliance with the requirements of this Agreement including but not limited to the quality control provisions of Exhibit A. the bona fide control of a Plan or Plans. Absent written approval by BCBSA of an alternative method of control, bona fide control shall mean the legal authority, directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate's governing body having not less than 51% voting control thereof (b) to exercise operational control with respect to the governance thereof and (c) to prevent any change in its articles of incorporation, bylaws or other governing documents deemed inappropriate. In addition, a Plan or Plans shall own at least 51% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. If the Controlled Affiliate is a mutual company, the Plan or its designee(s) shall have and maintain, in lieu of the requirements of items (a) and (c) above, proxies representing 51% of the votes at any meeting of the policyholders and shall demonstrate that there is no reason to believe this such proxies shall be revoked by sufficient policyholders to reduce such percentage below 51%. authorized products and further agrees to be bound by the conditions regarding quality control shown in Exhibit A as it may be amended by BCBSA from time-to-time. 2. QUALITY CONTROL 3. SERVICE MARK USE Controlled Affiliate shall at all times make proper service mark use of the Licensed Marks, including but not limited to use of such C. Controlled Affiliate agrees that it will provide on an annual basis (or more often if reasonably required by Plan or by D. As used herein, a Controlled Affiliate is defined as an entity organized and operated in such a manner that it is subject to B. Controlled Affiliate agrees that Plan and or BCBSA may, from A. Controlled Affiliate agrees to use the Licensed Marks and Name only in relation to the sale, marketing and rendering of Exhibit 10.12 rights granted hereunder and any such act shall be voidable at the option of Plan or BCBSA. This Agreement and all rights and duties hereunder are personal to Controlled Affiliate. which may occur in relation to the Licensed Marks. Controlled Affiliate shall not be entitled to require Plan or BCBSA to take any actions or institute any proceedings to prevent infringement, unfair competition or passing off by third parties. Controlled Affiliate agrees to render to Plan and BCBSA, free of charge, all reasonable assistance in connection with any matter pertaining to the protection of the Licensed Marks by BCBSA. damages, liabilities and costs of every kind, nature and description which may arise as a result of Controlled Affiliate's rendering of health care services under the Licensed Marks. additional one (1) year periods upon evidence satisfactory to the Plan and BCBSA that Controlled Affiliate meets the then applicable quality control standards, unless one of the parties hereto notifies the other party of the termination hereof at least sixty (60) days prior to expiration of any license period. given a reasonable opportunity to cure and shall not effect such a cure within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice of the intent to terminate (or commence a cure within such thirty day period and continue diligent efforts to complete the cure if such curing cannot reasonably be completed within such thirty day period). By way of example and not for purposes of limitation, Controlled Affiliate's failure to abide by the quality control provisions of Paragraph 2, above, shall be considered a proper ground for cancellation of this Agreement. 4. SUBLICENSING AND ASSIGNMENT 5. INFRINGEMENTS 6. LIABILITY INDEMNIFICATION 7. LICENSE TERM Controlled Affiliate shall not sublicense, transfer, hypothecate, sell, encumber or mortgage, by operation of law or otherwise, the Controlled Affiliate shall promptly notify Plan and BCBSA of any suspected acts of infringement, unfair competition or passing off Controlled Affiliate hereby agrees to save, defend, indemnify and hold Plan and BCBSA harmless from and against all claims, The license granted by this Agreement shall remain in effect for a period of one (1) year and shall be automatically extended for This Agreement may be terminated by the Plan or by BCBSA for cause at any time provided that Controlled Affiliate has been Exhibit 10.12 of the Licensed Marks including any use in its trade name. condition hereof, the decision of BCBSA shall control, subject to provisions for mediation or mandatory dispute resolution in effect between the parties. licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and provide instruction on how the customer can contact the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association or a designated licensee to obtain further information on securing coverage. The written notification required by this paragraph shall be in writing and in a form approved by the Association. The Association shall have the right to audit the terminated entity's books and records to verify compliance with this paragraph. or entity in the event that: an opportunity to cure, with the remaining quality control provisions of Exhibit A, as it may be amended from time-to-time or more than sixty (60) days in arrears to BCBSA. Upon termination of this Agreement for cause or otherwise, Controlled Affiliate agrees that it shall immediately discontinue all use In the event of any disagreement between Plan and BCBSA as to whether grounds exist for termination or as to any other term or Upon termination of this Agreement, Licensed Controlled Affiliate shall immediately notify all of its customers that it is no longer a Controlled Affiliate will pay to BCBSA a fee for this license in accordance with the following formula: An annual fee of five thousand dollars ( 5,000) per license, plus .05% of gross revenue per year from branded group products, plus .5% of gross revenue per year from branded individual products plus .14% of gross revenue per year from branded individual annuity products. This Agreement and all of Controlled Affiliate s rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by any party A. Controlled Affiliate shall no longer comply with Standard No. 1 (Organization and Governance) of Exhibit A or, following B. Plan ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Marks or C. Appropriate dues for Controlled Affiliate pursuant to item 8 hereof, which are the royalties for this License Agreement are Exhibit 10.12 License Agreement and or the Blue Shield License Agreement, and in all votes of the Plans under this Agreement the Plans shall vote together. For weighted votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have a number of votes equal to the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Cross Plan plus the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Shield Plan. For all other votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have one vote. For all questions requiring an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote of the Plans, the requirement shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless the greater of: (i) 6 52 or more of the Plans (rounded to the nearest whole number, with 0.5 or multiples thereof being rounded to the next higher whole number) fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question or (ii) three (3) of the Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, if there are thirty-nine (39) Plans, the requirement of an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless four (4) or more Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. The foregoing percentages shall be reduced by one-half where both a BLUE CROSS and BLUE SHIELD license are issued to the same entity. In the event that any License period is greater or less than one (1) year, any amounts due shall be prorated. Royalties under this formula will be calculated, billed and paid in arrears. Plan will promptly and timely transmit to BCBSA all dues owed by Controlled Affiliate as determined by the above formula and if Plan shall fail to do so, Controlled Affiliate shall pay such dues directly. relationship between Plan and Controlled Affiliate or between either and BCBSA. duplicate to the last known address of each other party, marked respectively to the attention of its President and, if any, its General Counsel. Notices regarding the subject matter of this Agreement or breach or termination thereof shall be in writing and shall be addressed in 9. JOINT VENTURE 10. NOTICES AND CORRESPONDENCE Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as creating a joint venture, partnership, agency or employment 9A. VOTING For all provisions of this Agreement referring to voting, the term Plans shall mean all entities licensed under the Blue Cross Amended as of November 20, 1997 Exhibit 10.12 only be amended by a writing executed by all parties. remaining obligations of the parties hereunder and the court may substitute a lawful term or condition for any unlawful term or condition so long as the effect of such substitution is to provide the parties with the benefits of this Agreement. the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach or default in performance of said terms, covenants or conditions. 11. COMPLETE AGREEMENT 12. SEVERABILITY 13. NONWAIVER 14. GOVERNING LAW This Agreement contains the complete understandings of the parties in relation to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may If any term of this Agreement is held to be unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction, such finding shall in no way effect the No waiver by BCBSA of any breach or default in performance on the part of the Controlled Affiliate or any other licensee of any of This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of Illinois. Amended as of June 16, 2005 Exhibit 10.12 BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this License Agreement to be executed, effective as of the date of last signature written below. By: Date: Controlled Affiliate By: Date: By: Date: Exhibit 10.12 The standards for licensing Life Insurance Companies (Life and Health Insurance companies, as defined by state statute) are established by BCBSA and are subject to change from time-to-time upon the affirmative vote of three-fourths (3 4) of the Plans and three-fourths (3 4) of the total weighted vote of all Plans. Each Licensed Plan is required to use a standard controlled affiliate license form provided by BCBSA and to cooperate fully in assuring that the licensed Life Insurance Company maintains compliance with the license standards. EXHIBIT A CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE STANDARDS LIFE INSURANCE COMPANIES Page 1 of 2 An organization meeting the following standards shall be eligible for a license to use the Licensed Marks within the service area of its sponsoring Licensed Plan to the extent and the manner authorized under the Controlled Affiliate License applicable to Life Insurance Companies and the principal license to the Plan. Standard 1 - Organization and Governance The LIC shall be organized and operated in such a manner that it is controlled by a licensed Plan or Plans which have, directly or indirectly: 1) not less than 51% of the voting control of the LIC and 2) the legal ability to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the LIC with which it does not concur and 3) operational control of the LIC. If the LIC is a mutual company, the Plan or its designee(s) shall have and maintain, in lieu of the requirements of items 1 and 2 above, proxies representing at least 51% of the votes at any policyholder meeting and shall demonstrate that there is no reason to believe such proxies shall be revoked by sufficient policyholders to reduce such percentage below 51%. Standard 2 - State Licensure The LIC must maintain unimpaired licensure or certificate of authority to operate under applicable state laws as a life and health insurance company in each state in which the LIC does business. Exhibit 10.12 EXHIBIT A CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE STANDARDS LIFE INSURANCE COMPANIES Page 2 of 2 Standard 3 - Records and Examination The LIC and its sponsoring licensed Plan(s) shall maintain and furnish, on a timely and accurate basis, such records and reports regarding the LIC as may be required in order to establish compliance with the license agreement. The LIC and its sponsoring licensed Plan(s) shall permit BCBSA to examine the affairs of the LIC and shall agree that BCBSA's board may submit a written report to the chief executive officer(s) and the board(s) of directors of the sponsoring Plan(s). Standard 4 - Mediation The LIC and its sponsoring Plan(s) shall agree to use the then-current BCBSA mediation and mandatory dispute resolution processes, in lieu of a legal action between or among another licensed controlled affiliate, a licensed Plan or BCBSA. Standard 5 - Financial Responsibility The LIC shall maintain adequate financial resources to protect its customers and meet its business obligations. Standard 6 - Cooperation with Affiliate License Performance Response Process Protocol The LIC and its Sponsoring Plan(s) shall cooperate with BCBSA s Board of Directors and its Brand Enhancement & Protection Committee in the administration of the Affiliate License Performance Response Process Protocol (ALPRPP) and in addressing LIC compliance problems identified thereunder. Exhibit 10.12 Whereas, the Sponsoring Plans and the Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate desire that the latter be entitled to use the appropriate Licensed Marks in connection with life and disability insurance products in some or all of such Sponsoring Plans Service Areas and in the Service Areas of other Regular Member Plans, as defined in the BCBSA By-laws, ( Blue Plans ) consistent with the terms of this Agreement. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements hereinafter set forth and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows: Affiliate ) which is a company offering life and disability insurance products owned and controlled by , , ( individually, Sponsoring Plan and when referred to collectively, Sponsoring Plans ). Whereas, BCBSA is the owner of the BLUE CROSS and BLUE SHIELD word and design service marks and any derivatives thereof ( Licensed Marks ) Whereas, each Sponsoring Plan is licensed separately by BCBSA to use one or more of the Licensed Marks in a particular Service Area Affiliate the limited right to use the Licensed Marks in connection with and only in connection with the following life and disability insurance products authorized by state law: (1) Group: Term Life, Long Term Disability, Whole Life, Benefit Life, Universal Life (2) Individual: Term Life, Whole Life, Dependent Life, S pouse Life (3) Other: Disability Income, Short Term Disability, Long Term Disability, Income Replacement and (4) such other life and disability products approved by BCBSA in writing ( Licensed Products ) in the Service Areas served by the Sponsoring Plans or in the Service Area or Areas of one or more other licensed Blue Plans, provided that such Blue Plans have consented to such use as authorized by this Agreement. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate may not use the Licensed Marks in its legal or trade name. 1. GRANT OF LICENSE This Agreement by and among Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ("BCBSA") and , ( Life and Disability Controlled A. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, BCBSA hereby grants to the Life and Disability Controlled FOR LIFE AND DISABILTY INSURANCE PRODUCTS TRADEMARK LICENSE AGREEMENT CONTROLLED AFFILIATE Exhibit 1A1 Exhibit 10.12 Licensed Marks, Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate may only use those of the Licensed Marks in the Service Area of a Sponsoring Plan or other consenting Blue Plan as described below that such Plan is authorized to use as a Blue Plan pursuant to its separate license agreements with BCBSA. in the Service Area of a Blue Plan that is not a signatory to this Agreement only after such Sponsoring Plan(s) or non-signatory Blue Plan consents to such use by executing a written consent in substantially the same form as the Consent Agreement attached as Exhibit B. properly executed: Controlled Affiliate in the Service Area of Sponsoring Plan or consenting Blue Plan (hereinafter, such consenting Sponsoring Plan or consenting Blue Plan collectively referred to Consenting Plan(s) ) must clearly identify the Consenting Plan (for example, a statement on such materials that reads This product is offered with the cooperation of Blue Cross and or Blue Shield of [Geography] ) distinct geographic areas within its Service Area, consent obtained under this Agreement may be limited to one or more of such specific geographic areas as specified by the Consenting Plan in its signed Consent Agreement. For purposes of this entire Agreement, all references to the Service Area of a Sponsoring Plan, Blue Plan or Consenting Plan may include the entire Service Area or a distinct geographic area within such Service Area as specified in this Section 1 D (2) Area, in addition to the requirements set forth in Section D (1) above, the sales, marketing and advertising materials referenced in such section above must be communicated to the Consenting Plan s existing and prospective accounts through or with the approval of such Consenting Plan, and the personnel of such Consenting Plan must actively participate in all sales and marketing activities conducted by Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate in the same Service Area, including participating in meetings (whether in- person or via telephone, video or internet conference) with both existing and prospective accounts of the Consenting Plan B. Notwithstanding that the license granted to Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate is a license to use all of the C. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate may use the Licensed Marks in the Service Areas of Sponsoring Plans or D. The following provisions apply with respect to Consent Agreements once such agreements have been fully and (1) All sales, marketing and advertising materials developed by and proposed for use by Life and Disability (2) To the extent the Consenting Plan has separate divisions or other Affiliates that use the Licensed Marks in (3) Where BCBSA has licensed two or more Blue Plans to use the same Licensed Marks in the same Service Exhibit 10.12 and administration of the Licensed Products and further agrees to be bound by the conditions regarding quality control shown in Exhibit A and the Guidelines to Administer the Standards for Trademark License Agreement for Life and Disability Insurance Products attached thereto. and inspect the manner and method of Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate's rendering of service and use of the Licensed Marks. required by BCBSA) a report to BCBSA demonstrating Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate's compliance with the requirements of this Agreement including but not limited to the quality control provisions of Exhibit A. a manner that it is 100% owned and controlled by Sponsoring Plans. Absent written approval by BCBSA of an alternative method of control, control shall mean the legal authority, directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate's governing body having not less than 100% voting control thereof (b) to exercise operational control with respect to the governance Consenting Plan agree in their sole discretion to a phase out in writing, immediately (i) cease all use of the Licensed Marks, including in connection with any and all sales and marketing of the Licensed Products in the Service Area where consent has been terminated, and (ii) notify its customers that it is no longer a licensee and provide instruction on how the customer can contact BCBSA or a designated licensee to obtain further information on securing coverage. The notification required by this paragraph shall be in writing and in form approved by BCBSA. 2. QUALITY CONTROL the Consenting Plan has been granted by BCBSA the license to use under its Blue Plan license agreements (for example, if a Consenting Plan is licensed to use only the Blue Cross Marks in its Service Area, the materials used by Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate in that Service Area may only contain or reference the Blue Cross Marks and not the Blue Shield Marks). A. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate agrees to use the Licensed Marks only in relation to the sale, marketing B. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate agrees that BCBSA may, from time-to-time, upon reasonable notice, review C. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate agrees that it will provide on an annual basis (or more often if reasonably D. As used herein, a Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate is defined as: An entity organized and operated in such (4) Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall be entitled to use in a Service Area only those Licensed Marks that (5) If a Consent Agreement is terminated, Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall, unless BCBSA and the Exhibit 10.12 competition or passing off which may occur in relation to the Licensed Marks. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall not be entitled to require BCBSA to take any actions or institute any proceedings to prevent infringement, unfair competition or passing off by third parties. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate agrees to render to BCBSA, free of charge, all reasonable assistance in connection with any matter pertaining to the protection of the Licensed Marks by BCBSA. BCBSA shall have sole control of the defense and resolution of any claim of infringement brought or threatened by others. thereof and (c) to prevent any change in its articles of incorporation, bylaws or other governing documents deemed inappropriate. In addition, a Sponsoring Plan or Plans shall own at least 100% of any for profit Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate. ensure all uses of the Licensed Marks comply with the BCBSA Brand Regulations, as amended by BCBSA from time to time. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate recognizes and agrees that all use of the Licensed Marks by Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall inure to the benefit of BCBSA. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate and shall not be assignable by any act of the Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate, directly or indirectly, without the written consent of BCBSA. Said license shall not be assignable by operation of law, nor shall Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate mortgage or part with possession or control of this license or any right hereunder, and the Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall have no right to grant any sublicense to use the Licensed Marks. against all claims, damages, liabilities and costs of every kind, nature and description which may arise as a result of Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate's conduct. 3. SERVICE MARK USE 4. SUBLICENSING AND ASSIGNMENT 5. INFRINGEMENTS 6. LIABILITY INDEMNIFICATION The license hereby granted to Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate to use the Licensed Marks is and shall be personal to Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall promptly notify BCBSA of any suspected acts of infringement, unfair Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate hereby agrees to save, defend, indemnify and hold BCBSA harmless from and Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall at all times make proper service mark use of the Licensed Marks and shall Exhibit 10.12 automatically extended for additional one (1) year periods, unless either BCBSA or Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate notifies the other party in writing of the termination hereof at least sixty (60) days prior to expiration of any license period. Affiliate has been given a reasonable opportunity to cure and shall not effect such a cure within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice of the intent to terminate (or commence a cure within such thirty day period and continue diligent efforts to complete the cure if such curing cannot reasonably be completed within such thirty day period). By way of example and not for purposes of limitation, Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate's failure to abide by the conditions regarding use of the Licensed Marks set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement or the quality control provisions of Section 2 (other than with respect to Section 2 D which is subject to immediate termination as stated in Section 7 C (1) below) shall be considered proper grounds for termination of this Agreement. without any further action by any party or entity in the event that: and Governance) of Exhibit A) or than sixty (60) days in arrears to BCBSA. Upon termination of this Agreement for cause or otherwise, Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate agrees that it shall immediately discontinue all use of the Licensed Marks. In the event of any disagreement between Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate and BCBSA as to whether grounds exist for termination or as to any other term or condition hereof, the decision of BCBSA shall control, subject to provisions for mediation or mandatory dispute resolution in effect between the parties. 7. LICENSE TERM A. The license granted by this Agreement shall remain in effect for a period of one (1) year and shall be B. This Agreement may be terminated by BCBSA for cause at any time provided that Life and Disability Controlled C. This Agreement and all of Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate's rights hereunder shall immediately terminate (1) Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall no longer comply with Section 2 D (or Standard No. 1 (Organization (2) Any Sponsoring Plan ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Marks or (3) Appropriate fees for Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate pursuant to Section 8 of this Agreement are more Exhibit 10.12 Upon termination of this Agreement, Licensed Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall immediately notify all of its customers that it is no longer a licensee of BCBSA and provide instruction on how the customer can contact BCBSA or a designated licensee to obtain further information on securing coverage. The notification required by this paragraph shall be in writing and in a form approved by BCBSA. BCBSA shall have the right to audit the terminated entity's books and records to verify compliance with this paragraph. In the event that any license period is greater or less than one (1) year, any amounts due shall be prorated. Royalties under this formula will be calculated, billed and paid in arrears. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate will promptly and timely transmit to BCBSA all fees owed by Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate as determined by the above formula. relationship between any Sponsoring Plan and Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate or between among them and or BCBSA. Cross License Agreement and or the Blue Shield License Agreement, and in all votes of the Plans under this Agreement the Plans shall vote together. For weighted votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have a number of votes equal to the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Cross Plan plus the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Shield Plan. For all other votes of the Plans, the 8. ROYALTIES 9. JOINT VENTURE Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as creating a joint venture, partnership, agency or employment An annual fee of five thousand dollars ( 5,000) per license, plus .05% of gross revenue per year from group products sold under the Licensed Marks, plus .5% of gross revenue per year from individual products sold under the Licensed Marks Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate will pay to BCBSA a fee for this license in accordance with the following formula: For all provisions of this Agreement referring to voting, the term Plans shall mean all entities licensed under the Blue Exhibit 10.12 Plan shall have one vote. For all questions requiring an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote of the Plans, the requirement shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless the greater of: (i) 6 52 or more of the Plans (rounded to the nearest whole number, with 0.5 or multiples thereof being rounded to the next higher whole number) fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question or (ii) three (3) of the Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, if there are thirty-nine (1) Plans, the requirement of an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless four (4) or more Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. addressed in duplicate to the last known address of each other party, marked respectively to the attention of its President and, if any, its General Counsel. Agreement may only be amended by: (a) a writing signed by all parties or (b) a writing approved by the affirmative vote of three- fourths of the Blue Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Blue Plans as officially recorded by the BCBSA Corporate Secretary. Upon such adoption by the Blue Plans, this Agreement and all other Trademark License Agreements for Life and Disability Insurance Products then in effect shall simultaneously be amended. affect the remaining obligations of the parties hereunder and the court may substitute a lawful term or condition for any unlawful term or condition so long as the effect of such substitution is to provide the parties with the benefits of this Agreement. or any other licensee of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach or default in performance of said terms, covenants or conditions. 11. NOTICES AND CORRESPONDENCE 12. COMPLETE AGREEMENT 13. SEVERABILITY 14. NONWAIVER 15. GOVERNING LAW Notices regarding the subject matter of this Agreement or breach or termination thereof shall be in writing and shall be This Agreement contains the complete understandings of the parties in relation to the subject matter hereof. This If any term of this Agreement is held to be unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction, such finding shall in no way No waiver by BCBSA of any breach or default in performance on the part of the Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of Exhibit 10.12 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this License Agreement to be executed, effective as of the date of last signature written below. BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION By: Date: Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate: By: Date: Sponsoring Plan: By: Date: Name: Sponsoring Plan: By: Date: Name: [Add other Sponsoring Plans as necessary] Exhibit 10.12 Any Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate licensed under the Trademark License Agreement for Life and Disability Insurance Products ( licensee ) shall be organized and operated in such a manner that it is an entity organized and operated in such a manner that it is 100% owned and controlled by Sponsoring Plans. Absent written approval by BCBSA of an alternative method of control, control shall mean the legal authority, directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate's governing body having not less than 100% voting control thereof (b) to exercise operational control with respect to the governance thereof and (c) to prevent any change in its articles of incorporation, bylaws or other governing documents deemed inappropriate. In addition, a Sponsoring Plan or Plans shall own at least 100% of any for profit Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate. Standard 2 - State Licensure The licensee must maintain unimpaired licensure or certificate of authority to operate under applicable state laws as a life company in each state in which the licensee does business. Standard 3 - Records and Examination The licensee shall maintain and furnish, on a timely and accurate basis, such records and reports regarding the licensee as may be required in order to establish compliance with the Agreement. The licensee shall permit BCBSA to examine the affairs of the licensee and shall agree that BCBSA's board may submit a written report to the chief executive officer(s) and the board(s) of directors of the Sponsoring Plan(s). Standard 4 - Mediation The licensee, its Sponsoring Plan(s) and all consenting Blue Plans shall agree to use the then-current BCBSA mediation and mandatory dispute resolution processes, in lieu of a legal action between or among another licensed Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate, a Sponsoring Plan and or consenting Blue Plan or BCBSA. LICENSE STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO TRADEMARK LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR LIFE AND DISABILITY INSURANCE PRODUCTS Page 1 of 2 Standard 1 - Organization and Governance Exhibit 10.12 EXHIBIT A LICENSE STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO TRADEMARK LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR LIFE AND DISABILITY INSURANCE PRODUCTS Page 2 of 2 Standard 5 - Financial Responsibility The licensee shall maintain adequate financial resources to protect its customers and meet its business obligations. Standard 6 - Cooperation with BCBSA Governance The licensee shall cooperate with BCBSA s Board of Directors and its Brand Enhancement & Protection Committee in the administration of and in addressing licensee compliance problems that may be identified in connection with the operation or administration of the Trademark License Agreement for Life and Disability Insurance Products. Exhibit 10.12 Whereas, BCBSA owns the Blue Cross and Blue Shield word and design service marks and any derivative mark thereof (the Brands ) Whereas, the undersigned Blue Plan is licensed to use one or more of the Brands within a specific geographic area ( Service Area ) Whereas Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate is licensed by BCBSA to use one or more of the Brands to offer life and disability insurance products ( Products ) as defined and authorized in the Trademark License Agreement for Life and Disability Insurance Products ( Life and Disability License Agreement ) Whereas neither the Blue Plan nor its affiliates offer the Products under any of the Brands in such Blue Plan s Service Area or portion thereof where Blue Plan has consented to sale of the Products by Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate and Whereas BCBSA and the undersigned Blue Plan desire to consent to Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate s use of the Brands in Blue Plan s Service Area consistent with the terms of the Life and Disability License Agreement and this Consent Agreement. Now, therefore, in consideration of the obligations and conditions stated in this Agreement, Blue Plan, Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate and BCBSA agree as follows: CONSENT AGREEMENT This Consent Agreement is made and entered into by and among the undersigned Blue Plan, and ( Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate ), and the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA ) and shall be deemed effective on ( Effective Date ). 1. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate may market, sell, administer and underwrite the Products in Blue Plan s Service Area under the Brands licensed to Blue Plan in such Service Area subject to the terms of this Consent Agreement, the Life and Disability License Agreement and Blue Plan s license agreement(s) with BCBSA. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate s rights under the Brands to offer the Products under the Brands are limited to offering the Products only under the Brand(s) licensed to the consenting Blue Plan. 2. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall work with the undersigned Blue Plan to develop a written sales and marketing agreement that identifies the relationship between it and Blue Plan for the sales, marketing and customer service for the Products. The term of the sales and marketing agreement shall be the same as the term of this Consent Agreement. Exhibit 10.12 5. If two or more Blue Plans to use the same Licensed Marks in the same Service Area, Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall work with the consenting Blue Plan in the following manner: (a) the sales, marketing and advertising materials must be communicated to the consenting Blue Plan s existing and prospective accounts through or with the approval of such Blue Plan, and (b) the personnel of such Blue Plan must actively participate in all sales and marketing activities conducted by Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate in the same Service Area, including participating in meetings (whether in-person or via telephone, video or internet conference) with both existing and prospective accounts of the consenting Blue Plan 7. If this Consent Agreement is terminated, Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall, unless each BCBSA and the Blue Plan agree in their sole discretion to a phase out in writing, immediately (i) cease all use of the Licensed Marks, including in connection with any and all sales and marketing of the Licensed Products in the Service Area where consent has been terminated, and (ii) notify its customers that it is no longer a licensee of BCBSA and provide instruction on how the customer can contact BCBSA or a designated licensee to obtain further information on securing coverage. The notification required by this paragraph shall be in writing and in form approved by BCBSA. 3. All sales, marketing and advertising materials developed by and proposed for use by Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate in a consenting Blue Plan s Service Area must clearly identify the consenting Blue Plan (for example, a statement on such materials that reads This product is offered with the cooperation of Blue Cross and or Blue Shield of [Geography] ) 4. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate may use the Brands to sell the Products in the following Service Area or portion thereof as designated by Blue Plan: 6. Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate shall be entitled to use in a Service Area only those Licensed Marks that the consenting Blue Plan has been granted by BCBSA the license to use under its license agreement (for example, if a consenting Blue Plan is licensed to use only the Blue Cross Marks in its Service Area, the materials used by Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate in that Service Area may only contain or reference the Blue Cross Marks and not the Blue Shield Marks). Exhibit 10.12 Agreed and Accepted by: [Blue Plan]: By: Title: BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION: By: Title: LIFE AND DISABILITY CONTROLLED AFFILIATE: Title: 9. This Consent Agreement may be terminated as follows: 8. The term of this Consent Agreement shall be one year from the Effective Date. Unless either Blue Plan or Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate provides the other party with written notice of its desire not to renew this Consent Agreement at least 60 days prior to expiration of the term or any extended term or unless terminated as provided in Paragraph 9 below, this Consent Agreement shall automatically renew for subsequent one year periods. 10. This Consent Agreement shall automatically terminate if Blue Plan s primary licensee agreement terminates for any reason or if the Life and Disability License Agreement terminates for any reason. terminating party and BCBSA or or the sales protocol agreement. A. Upon mutual written consent of Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate and Blue Plan B. By Blue Plan or Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate upon 60 days advance written notice to the non- C. By Blue Plan immediately if Life and Disability Controlled Affiliate does not comply with this Consent Agreement Exhibit 10.12 ("Controlling Plans"), each of which is also a Medicare and Medicaid Services ( CMS ) to offer Medicare Advantage PPO products in geographic regions designated by CMS (hereafter regional MAPPO products ). SHIELD Design service marks (collectively the "Licensed Marks") as service marks and be entitled to use the term BLUE SHIELD in a trade name ("Licensed Name") to offer regional MAPPO products in a region that includes the Service Areas, or portions thereof, of more than one Controlling Plan Affiliate of the Blue Cross Plan(s), known as Party signatory hereto. valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows: 1. GRANT OF LICENSE Marks and Name in connection with, and only in connection with the sale, marketing and administration of regional MAPPO products and related services. WHEREAS, under the Medicare Modernization Act, companies may apply to and be awarded a contract by the Centers for WHEREAS, some of the CMS-designated regions include the Service Areas, or portions thereof, of more than one Plan. WHEREAS, the Controlling Plans and Controlled Affiliate desire that the latter be entitled to use the BLUE SHIELD and BLUE This Agreement by and among Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ("BCBSA") and ( Controlled Affiliate"), a Controlled WHEREAS, BCBSA is the owner of the BLUE SHIELD and BLUE SHIELD Design service marks NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements hereinafter set forth and for other good and Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, BCBSA hereby grants to Controlled Affiliate the right to use the Licensed CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE AGREEMENT APPLICABLE TO REGIONAL MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PPO (Adopted by Member Plans at their November 21, 2019) BLUE SHIELD This grant of rights is non-exclusive and is limited to the following states: (the Region ). Controlled Affiliate may use the Licensed Exhibit 10.12 Exhibit 1B Marks and Name in its legal name on the following conditions: (i) the legal name must be approved in advance, in writing, by BCBSA (ii) Controlled Affiliate shall not do business outside the Region under any name or mark except business conducted in the Service Area of a Controlling Plan provided that Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed by BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Name in connection with health care plans and related services in the Service Area of such Controlling Plan and (iii) Controlled Affiliate shall not use the Licensed Marks and Name, or any derivative thereof, as part of any name or symbol used to identify itself in any securities market. Controlled Affiliate may use the Licensed Marks and Name in its Trade Name only with the prior, written, consent of BCBSA. 2. QUALITY CONTROL agrees to be bound by the conditions regarding quality control shown in attached Exhibit A as they may be amended by BCBSA from time- to-time. Plans or by BCBSA) a report or reports to the Controlling Plans and BCBSA demonstrating Controlled Affiliate's compliance with the requirements of this Agreement including but not limited to the quality control provisions of this paragraph and the attached Exhibit A. review and inspect the manner and method of Controlled Affiliate's rendering of service and use of the Licensed Marks and Name. following requirements: in a geographic area in the Region and every geographic area in the Region is so licensed to at least one of the Controlling Plans and A. Controlled Affiliate agrees to use the Licensed Marks and Name only in connection with the licensed services and further B. Controlled Affiliate agrees to comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws. C. Controlled Affiliate agrees that it will provide on an annual basis (or more often if reasonably required by the Controlling D. Controlled Affiliate agrees that the Controlling Plans and or BCBSA may, from time-to-time, upon reasonable notice, E. As used herein, a Controlled Affiliate is defined as an entity organized and operated in such a manner, that it meets the (1) Controlled Affiliate is owned or controlled by two or more Controlling (2) Each Controlling Plan is authorized pursuant to a separate Blue Shield License Agreement to use the Licensed Marks Exhibit 10.12 Controlled Affiliate with which the Controlling Plans do not concur Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in (a) through (c) hereof, the Controlled Affiliate s establishing or governing documents must also require written approval by each of the Controlling Plans before the Controlled Affiliate can: In addition, the Controlling Plans directly or indirectly through wholly owned subsidiaries shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. (3) The Controlling Plans must have the legal authority directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body having not less than 100% voting control thereof (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate and (i) change its legal and or trade names (ii) change the geographic area in which it operates (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the Controlled Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) (iii) change any of the type(s) of businesses in which it engages (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the Controlled Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) (iv) take any action that any Controlling Plan or BCBSA reasonably believes will adversely affect the Licensed Marks and Name. Exhibit 10.12 3. SERVICE MARK USE which are committed to strengthening the Licensed Marks and Name. The Controlled Affiliate further recognizes that its actions within the Region may affect the value of the Licensed Marks and Name nationwide. limited to use of such symbols or words as BCBSA shall specify to protect the Licensed Marks and Name and shall comply with such rules (generally applicable to Controlled Affiliates licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name) relative to service mark use, as are issued from time-to-time by BCBSA. Controlled Affiliate recognizes and agrees that all use of the Licensed Marks and Name by Controlled Affiliate shall inure to the benefit of BCBSA. intended to transfer in the Region the goodwill associated therewith to another mark or name, nor may Controlled Affiliate engage in activity that may dilute or tarnish the unique value of the Licensed Marks and Name. connection with the sale, marketing and administration of regional MAPPO products and related services. 4. SUBLICENSING AND ASSIGNMENT law or otherwise, the rights granted hereunder and any such act shall be voidable at the sole option of any Controlling Plan or BCBSA. This Agreement and all rights and duties hereunder are personal to Controlled Affiliate. A. Controlled Affiliate recognizes the importance of a comprehensive national network of independent BCBSA licensees B. Controlled Affiliate shall at all times make proper service mark use of the Licensed Marks and Name, including but not C. Controlled Affiliate may not directly or indirectly use the Licensed Marks and Name in a manner that transfers or is D. Controlled Affiliate shall use its best efforts to promote and build the value of the Licensed Marks and Name in Controlled Affiliate shall not, directly or indirectly, sublicense, transfer, hypothecate, sell, encumber or mortgage, by operation of Exhibit 10.12 5. INFRINGEMENT suspected acts of infringement, unfair competition or passing off that may occur in relation to the Licensed Marks and Name. Controlled Affiliate shall not be entitled to require the Controlling Plans or BCBSA to take any actions or institute any proceedings to prevent infringement, unfair competition or passing off by third parties. Controlled Affiliate agrees to render to the Controlling Plans and BCBSA, without charge, all reasonable assistance in connection with any matter pertaining to the protection of the Licensed Marks and Name by BCBSA. 6. LIABILITY INDEMNIFICATION all claims, damages, liabilities and costs of every kind, nature and description (except those arising solely as a result of BCBSA's negligence) that may arise as a result of or related to Controlled Affiliate's rendering of services under the Licensed Marks and Name. 7. LICENSE TERM year and shall be automatically extended for additional one (1) year periods unless terminated pursuant to the provisions herein. any party or entity in the event that: (i) any one of the Controlling Plans ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Marks and Name or (ii) pursuant to Paragraph 15(a)(x) of the Blue Shield License Agreement any one of the Controlling Plans ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Names and Marks in the Region. forthwith terminated by the Controlling Plans or the affirmative vote of the majority of the Board of Directors of BCBSA present and voting at a special meeting expressly called by BCBSA for the purpose on ten (10) days written notice to the Controlling Plans advising of the specific matters at issue and granting the Controlling Plans an opportunity to be heard and to present their response to the Board for: (1) failure to comply with any applicable minimum capital or liquidity requirement under the quality control standards of this Controlled Affiliate shall promptly notify the Controlling Plans and the Controlling Plans shall promptly notify BCBSA of any Controlled Affiliate and the Controlling Plans hereby agree to save, defend, indemnify and hold BCBSA harmless from and against A. Except as otherwise provided herein, the license granted by this Agreement shall remain in effect for a period of one (1) B. This Agreement and all of Controlled Affiliate's rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by C. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, this license to use the Licensed Marks and Name may be Exhibit 10.12 provisions of this Agreement and not cure such failure within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice thereof (or commence a cure within such thirty day period and continue diligent efforts to complete the cure if such curing cannot reasonably be completed within such thirty day period) BCBSA or the Controlling Plans shall have the right to issue a notice that the Controlled Affiliate is in a state of noncompliance. If a state of noncompliance as aforesaid is undisputed by the Controlled Affiliate or is found to exist by a mandatory dispute resolution panel and is uncured as provided above, BCBSA shall have the right to seek judicial enforcement of the Agreement or to issue a notice of termination thereof. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, any disputes as to the termination of this License pursuant to Paragraphs 7(B), 7(C) or 7(E) of this Agreement shall not be subject to mediation and mandatory dispute resolution. All other disputes between or among BCBSA, any of the Controlling Plans and or Controlled Affiliate shall be submitted promptly to mediation and mandatory dispute resolution. The mandatory dispute resolution panel shall have authority to issue orders for specific performance and assess monetary penalties. Except, however, as provided in Paragraphs 7(B) and 7(E) of this Agreement, this license to use the Licensed Marks and Name may not be finally terminated for any reason without the affirmative vote of a majority of the present and voting members of the Board of Directors of BCBSA. any party or entity in the event that: royalties for this License Agreement, are more than sixty (60) days in arrears to BCBSA or Agreement or (2) failure to comply with the "Organization and Governance" quality control standard of this Agreement or (3) impending financial insolvency or (4) failure to comply with any of the applicable requirements of Standards 2, 3, 4, or 5 of attached Exhibit A or (5) the pendency of any action instituted against the Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business or seeking the declaration or establishment of a trust for any of its property or business, unless this Controlled Affiliate License Agreement has been earlier terminated under paragraph 7(E) or (6) such other reason as is determined in good faith immediately and irreparably to threaten the integrity and reputation of BCBSA, the Plans (including the Controlling Plans), any other licensee including Controlled Affiliate and or the Licensed Marks and Name. D. Except as otherwise provided in Paragraphs 7(B), 7(C) or 7(E) herein, should Controlled Affiliate fail to comply with the E. This Agreement and all of Controlled Affiliate's rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by (1) Controlled Affiliate shall no longer comply with item 2(E) above (2) Appropriate dues, royalties and other payments for Controlled Affiliate pursuant to paragraph 9 hereof, which are the Exhibit 10.12 reorganization, arrangement with creditors or other relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or any other law governing insolvency or debtor relief, or (ii) an involuntary petition or proceeding shall be filed against Controlled Affiliate seeking bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement with creditors or other relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or any other law governing insolvency or debtor relief and such petition or proceeding is consented to or acquiesced in by Controlled Affiliate or is not dismissed within sixty (60) days of the date upon which the petition or other document commencing the proceeding is served upon the Controlled Affiliate, or (iii) an order for relief is entered against Controlled Affiliate in any case under the bankruptcy laws of the United States, or Controlled Affiliate is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent as those terms are defined in the Uniform Commercial Code as enacted in the State of Illinois by any court of competent jurisdiction, or (iv) Controlled Affiliate makes a general assignment of its assets for the benefit of creditors, or (v) any government or any government official, office, agency, branch, or unit assumes control of Controlled Affiliate or delinquency proceedings (voluntary or involuntary) are instituted, or (vi) an action is brought by Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking the appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business, or (vii) an action is instituted by any governmental entity or officer against Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking the appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business and such action is consented to or acquiesced in by Controlled Affiliate or is not dismissed within one hundred thirty (130) days of the date upon which the pleading or other document commencing the action is served upon the Controlled Affiliate, provided that if the action is stayed or its prosecution is enjoined, the one hundred thirty (130) day period is tolled for the duration of the stay or injunction, and provided further, that the Association s Board of Directors may toll or extend the 130 day period at any time prior to its expiration, or (viii) a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of Controlled Affiliate's property or business is appointed or the Controlled Affiliate is ordered dissolved or liquidated. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, a declaration or a request for declaration of the existence of a trust over any of the Controlled Affiliate s property or business shall not in itself be deemed to constitute or seek appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for purposes of subparagraphs 7(E)(3)(vii) and (ii) of this Agreement. discontinue all use of the Licensed Marks and Name, including any use in its trade name, except to the extent that it continues to be authorized to use the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan. (3) Any of the following events occur: (i) a voluntary petition shall be filed by Controlled Affiliate seeking bankruptcy, F. Upon termination of this Agreement for cause or otherwise, Controlled Affiliate agrees that it shall immediately Exhibit 10.12 products or services under the Licensed Marks pursuant to this Agreement that it is no longer a licensee of BCBSA and, if directed by the Association s Board of Directors, shall provide instruction on how the customer can contact BCBSA or a designated licensee to obtain further information on securing coverage. The notification required by this paragraph shall be in writing and in a form approved by BCBSA. The BCBSA shall have the right to audit the terminated entity's books and records to verify compliance with this paragraph. Paragraph 7(G) shall not apply and the following provisions shall apply, except that, in the event that Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed by BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks in the Service Area of a Controlling Plan and termination of this Agreement is due to a partial termination of such Controlling Plan s license pursuant to Paragraph 15(a)(x)(ii) of the Blue Shield License Agreement, the notices, national account listing, payment, and audit right listed below shall be applicable solely with respect to the Region and the geographic area for which the Controlling Plan s license to use the Licensed Names and Marks is terminated: group customers, providers, brokers and agents of products or services sold, marketed, underwritten or administered by the Controlled Affiliate under the Licensed Marks and Name. The form and content of the notice shall be specified by BCBSA and shall, at a minimum, notify the recipient of the termination of the license, the consequences thereof, and instructions for obtaining alternate products or services licensed by BCBSA. This notice shall be mailed within 15 days after termination. which the Controlled Affiliate is involved (in a control, participating or servicing capacity), identifying the national account and the Controlled Affiliate s role therein. agreement with BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Name, the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans shall be jointly liable for payment to BCBSA of an amount equal to 25 multiplied by the number of Licensed Enrollees of the Controlled Affiliate provided that if any Plan other than a Controlling Plan is permitted by BCBSA to use marks or names licensed by BCBSA in a geographic area in the Region, the payment for Licensed Enrollees in such geographic area shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of Licensed Enrollees of the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans, and G. Upon termination of this Agreement, Controlled Affiliate shall immediately notify all of its customers to whom it provides H. In the event this Agreement terminates pursuant to 7(B) hereof, upon termination of this Agreement the provisions of (2) The Controlled Affiliate shall deliver to BCBSA within five days of a request by BCBSA a listing of national accounts in (3) Unless the cause of termination is an event respecting BCBSA stated in paragraph 15(a) or (b) of the Plan s license (1) The Controlled Affiliate shall send a notice through the U.S. mails, with first class postage affixed, to all individual and Exhibit 10.12 foregoing, the amount payable pursuant to this subparagraph H. (3) shall be due only to the extent that, in BCBSA s opinion, it does not cause the net worth of the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans or any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans to fall below 100% of the Health Risk-Based Capital formula, or its equivalent under any successor formula, as set forth in the applicable financial responsibility standards established by BCBSA (provided such equivalent is approved for purposes of this subparagraph by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans) measured as of the date of termination, and adjusted for the value of any transactions not made in the ordinary course of business. This payment shall not be due in connection with transactions exclusively by or among Plans (including the Controlling Plans) or their affiliates, including reorganizations, combinations or mergers, where the BCBSA Board of Directors determines that the license termination does not result in a material diminution in the number of Licensed Enrollees or the extent of their coverage. In the event that the Controlled Affiliate s license is reinstated by BCBSA or is deemed to have remained in effect without interruption by a court of competent jurisdiction, BCBSA shall reimburse the Controlled Affiliate (and or the Controlling Plans or their other Licensed Controlled Affiliates, as the case may be) for payments made under this subparagraph 7.H.(3) only to the extent that such payments exceed the amounts due to BCBSA pursuant to paragraph 7.K. and any costs associated with reestablishing the terminated Controlling Plan s Service Area or the Region, including any payments made by BCBSA to a Plan or Plans (including the other Controlling Plans), or their Licensed Controlled Affiliates, for purposes of replacing the Controlled Affiliate. any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans in such geographic area and the denominator of which is the total number of Licensed Enrollees in such geographic area. Licensed Enrollee means each and every person and covered dependent who is enrolled as an individual or member of a group receiving products or services sold, marketed or administered under marks or names licensed by BCBSA as determined at the earlier of (i) the end of the last fiscal year of the terminated entity which ended prior to termination or (ii) the fiscal year which ended before any transactions causing the termination began. Notwithstanding the other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans to verify compliance with this paragraph 7.H. competent jurisdiction. As to a breach of 7.H.(1), (2) or (4) by the Controlled Affiliate, the parties agree there is no adequate remedy at law and BCBSA is entitled to obtain specific performance. (4) BCBSA shall have the right to audit the books and records of the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans, and any (5) As to a breach of 7.H.(1), (2), (3) or (4), the parties agree that the obligations are immediately enforceable in a court of Exhibit 10.12 Mediation and Mandatory Dispute Resolution process attached to and made a part of each Controlling Plan s License from BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Name as Exhibit 5 as amended from time-to-time, which documents are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth herein. into any transaction which would result in a termination of this Agreement unless a Controlling Plan s license from BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Names has been terminated pursuant to 10(d) of such Controlling Plan s license agreement upon the required 6 month written notice. effect without interruption by a court of competent jurisdiction, the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans shall be jointly liable for reimbursing BCBSA the reasonable costs incurred by BCBSA in connection with the termination and the reinstatement or court action, and any associated legal proceedings, including but not limited to: outside legal fees, consulting fees, public relations fees, advertising costs, and costs incurred to develop, lease or establish an interim provider network. Any amount due to BCBSA under this subparagraph may be waived in whole or in part by the BCBSA Board of Directors in its sole discretion. 8. DISPUTE RESOLUTION Controlled Affiliates of Plans that use in any manner the Blue Shield and Blue Shield Marks and Name are subject to the 9. LICENSE FEE 10. JOINT VENTURE relationship between the Controlling Plans and Controlled Affiliate or between either and BCBSA. 11. NOTICES AND CORRESPONDENCE in duplicate to the last I. BCBSA shall be entitled to enjoin the Controlled Affiliate or any related party in a court of competent jurisdiction from entry J. BCBSA acknowledges that it is not the owner of assets of the Controlled Affiliate. K. In the event this Agreement terminates and is subsequently reinstated by BCBSA or is deemed to have remained in The parties agree that any disputes between or among them or between or among any of them and one or more Plans or Controlled Affiliate will pay to BCBSA a fee for this License determined pursuant to the formula(s) set forth in Exhibit B. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as creating a joint venture, partnership, agency or employment Notices regarding the subject matter of this Agreement or breach or termination thereof shall be in writing and shall be addressed Exhibit 10.12 License Agreement and or the Blue Shield License Agreement, and in all votes of the Plans under this Agreement the Plans shall vote together. For weighted votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have a number of votes equal to the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Cross Plan plus the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Shield Plan. For all other votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have one vote. For all questions requiring an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote of the Plans, the requirement shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless the greater of: (i) 6 52 or more of the Plans (rounded to the nearest whole number, with 0.5 or multiples thereof being rounded to the next higher whole number) fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question or (ii) three (3) of the Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, if there are thirty-nine (39) Plans, the requirement of an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless four (4) or more Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. known address of each other party, marked respectively to the attention of its President and, if any, its General Counsel. 12. COMPLETE AGREEMENT only be amended by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans as officially recorded by the BCBSA Corporate Secretary. 13. SEVERABILITY remaining obligations of the parties hereunder and the court may substitute a lawful term or condition for any unlawful term or condition so long as the effect of such substitution is to provide the parties with the benefits of this Agreement. 14. NONWAIVER terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach or default in performance of said terms, covenants or conditions. 14A. VOTING For all provisions of this Agreement referring to voting, the term Plans shall mean all entities licensed under the Blue Cross This Agreement contains the complete understandings of the parties in relation to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may If any term of this Agreement is held to be unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction, such findings shall in no way affect the No waiver by BCBSA of any breach or default in performance on the part of Controlled Affiliate or any other licensee of any of the Exhibit 10.12 15. GOVERNING LAW 16. HEADINGS This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of Illinois. The headings inserted in this agreement are for convenience only and shall have no bearing on the interpretation hereof. Exhibit 10.12 Date: Controlling Plan: Date: Controlling Plan: Date: BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION Date: IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this License Agreement to be executed and effective as of the date of last signature written below. Controlled Affiliate: Exhibit 10.12 The standards for licensing Controlled Affiliates for Medicare Advantage PPO Products are established by BCBSA and are subject to change from time-to-time upon the affirmative vote of three-fourths (3 4) of the Plans and three-fourths (3 4) of the total weighted vote. Each Controlling Plan is required to use a standard Controlled Affiliate license form provided by BCBSA and to cooperate fully in assuring that the licensed Controlled Affiliate maintains compliance with the license standards. Standard 1 - Organization and Governance A Controlled Affiliate is defined as an entity organized and operated in such a manner, that it meets the following requirements: CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO REGIONAL MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PPO PRODUCTS November 2019 PREAMBLE in a geographic area in the Region and every geographic area in the Region is so licensed to at least one of the Controlling Plans and Controlled Affiliate with which the Controlling Plans do not concur Affiliate and (1) Controlled Affiliate is owned or controlled by two or more Controlling (3) The Controlling Plans must have the legal authority directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (2) Each Controlling Plan is authorized pursuant to a separate Blue Shield License Agreement to use the Licensed Marks (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body having not less than 100% voting control thereof (b) prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the (c) exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Exhibit 10.12 EXHIBIT A (continued) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in (a) through (c) hereof, the Controlled Affiliate s establishing or governing documents must also require written approval by each of the Controlling Plans before the Controlled Affiliate can: In addition, the Controlling Plans directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. Standard 2 - Financial Responsibility A Controlled Affiliate shall be operated in a manner that provides reasonable financial assurance that it can fulfill all of its contractual obligations to its customers. Standard 3 - State Licensure Certification A Controlled Affiliate shall maintain appropriate and unimpaired licensure and certifications. (i) change its legal and or trade names (ii) change the geographic area in which it operates (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the Controlled Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) (iii) change any of the type(s) of businesses in which it engages (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the Controlled Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) (iv) take any action that any Controlling Plan or BCBSA reasonably believes will adversely affect the Licensed Marks and Name. Exhibit 10.12 During each year, a Controlled Affiliate shall use its best efforts to promote and build the value of the Blue Shield Marks. EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 4 - Certain Disclosures A Controlled Affiliate shall make adequate disclosure in contracting with third parties and in disseminating public statements of: Standard 5 - Reports and Records for Controlled Affiliates A Controlled Affiliate and or its Controlling Plans shall furnish, on a timely and accurate basis, reports and records relating to these Standards and the License Agreements between BCBSA and Controlled Affiliate. Standard 6 - Best Efforts Standard 7 - Participation in Certain National Programs A Controlled Affiliate shall effectively and efficiently participate in certain national programs from time to time as may be adopted by Member Plans for the purposes of providing ease of claims processing for customers receiving benefits outside of the Controlled Affiliate s service area. National program requirements include: Standard 8 - Participation in Master Business Associate Agreement Controlled Affiliates shall comply with the terms of the Business Associate Agreement for Blue Cross and Blue Shield Licensees to the extent they perform the functions of a business associate or subcontractor to a business associate, as defined by the Business Associate Agreement. a. the structure of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield System and b. the independent nature of every licensee. a. Inter-Plan Teleprocessing System (ITS) and b. Inter-Plan Medicare Advantage Program. Amended as of November 15, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 An amount equal to its pro rata share of each Controlling Plan dues payable to BCBSA computed with the addition of the Controlled Affiliate's members using the Marks on regional MAPPO products and related services as reported on the Quarterly Enrollment Report with BCBSA. The payment by each Controlling Plan of its dues to BCBSA, including that portion described in this paragraph, will satisfy the requirement of this paragraph, and no separate payment will be necessary. ROYALTY FORMULA FOR SECTION 9 OF THE CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE AGREEMENTS APPLICABLE TO REGIONAL MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PPO PRODUCTS Controlled Affiliate will pay BCBSA a fee for this license in accordance with the following formula: Amended as of June 14, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 ("Controlling Plans"), each of which is also a Medicare and Medicaid Services ( CMS ) to offer Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan products in geographic regions designated by CMS (hereafter regional PDP products ). SHIELD Design service marks (collectively the "Licensed Marks") as service marks and be entitled to use the term BLUE SHIELD in a trade name ("Licensed Name") to offer regional PDP products in a region that includes the Service Areas, or portions thereof, of more than one Controlling Plan Affiliate of the Blue Cross Plan(s), known as Party signatory hereto. valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows: Marks and Name in connection with, and only in connection with the sale, marketing and administration of regional PDP products and related services. WHEREAS, under the Medicare Modernization Act, companies may apply to and be awarded a contract by the Centers for WHEREAS, some of the CMS-designated regions include the Service Areas, or portions thereof, of more than one Plan. WHEREAS, the Controlling Plans and Controlled Affiliate desire that the latter be entitled to use the BLUE SHIELD and BLUE This Agreement by and among Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ("BCBSA") and ( Controlled Affiliate"), a Controlled WHEREAS, BCBSA is the owner of the BLUE SHIELD and BLUE SHIELD Design service marks NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements hereinafter set forth and for other good and 1. GRANT OF LICENSE Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, BCBSA hereby grants to Controlled Affiliate the right to use the Licensed APPLICABLE TO REGIONAL MEDICARE PART D PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN PRODUCTS (Adopted by Member Plans at their November 21, 2019 meeting) CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE AGREEMENT BLUE SHIELD This grant of rights is non-exclusive and is limited to the following states: (the Region ). Controlled Affiliate may use the Licensed Exhibit 10.12 Exhibit 1C Marks and Name in its legal name on the following conditions: (i) the legal name must be approved in advance, in writing, by BCBSA (ii) Controlled Affiliate shall not do business outside the Region under any name or mark except business conducted in the Service Area of a Controlling Plan provided that Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed by BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Name in connection with health care plans and related services in the Service Area of such Controlling Plan and (iii) Controlled Affiliate shall not use the Licensed Marks and Name, or any derivative thereof, as part of any name or symbol used to identify itself in any securities market. Controlled Affiliate may use the Licensed Marks and Name in its Trade Name only with the prior, written, consent of BCBSA. agrees to be bound by the conditions regarding quality control shown in attached Exhibit A as they may be amended by BCBSA from time- to-time. Plans or by BCBSA) a report or reports to the Controlling Plans and BCBSA demonstrating Controlled Affiliate's compliance with the requirements of this Agreement including but not limited to the quality control provisions of this paragraph and the attached Exhibit A. review and inspect the manner and method of Controlled Affiliate's rendering of service and use of the Licensed Marks and Name. following requirements: in a geographic area in the Region and every geographic area in the Region is so licensed to at least one of the Controlling Plans and 2. QUALITY CONTROL A. Controlled Affiliate agrees to use the Licensed Marks and Name only in connection with the licensed services and further B. Controlled Affiliate agrees to comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws. C. Controlled Affiliate agrees that it will provide on an annual basis (or more often if reasonably required by the Controlling D. Controlled Affiliate agrees that the Controlling Plans and or BCBSA may, from time-to-time, upon reasonable notice, E. As used herein, a Controlled Affiliate is defined as an entity organized and operated in such a manner, that it meets the (1) Controlled Affiliate is owned or controlled by two or more Controlling (2) Each Controlling Plan is authorized pursuant to a separate Blue Shield License Agreement to use the Licensed Marks Exhibit 10.12 the Controlled Affiliate with which the Controlling Plans do not concur Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in (a) through (c) hereof, the Controlled Affiliate s establishing or governing documents must also require written approval by each of the Controlling Plans before the Controlled Affiliate can: In addition, the Controlling Plans directly or indirectly through wholly owned subsidiaries shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. (3) The Controlling Plans must have the legal authority directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body having not less than 100% voting control thereof (b) to prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of (c) to exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Affiliate and (i) change its legal and or trade names (ii) change the geographic area in which it operates (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the Controlled Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) (iii) change any of the type(s) of businesses in which it engages (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the Controlled Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) (iv) take any action that any Controlling Plan or BCBSA reasonably believes will adversely affect the Licensed Marks and Name. Exhibit 10.12 suspected acts of infringement, unfair competition or passing off that may occur in relation to the Licensed Marks and Name. Controlled Affiliate shall not be entitled to require the Controlling Plans or BCBSA to take any actions or institute any proceedings to prevent infringement, unfair competition or passing off by third parties. Controlled Affiliate agrees to render to the Controlling Plans and BCBSA, without charge, all reasonable assistance in connection with any matter pertaining to the protection of the Licensed Marks and Name by BCBSA. which are committed to strengthening the Licensed Marks and Name. The Controlled Affiliate further recognizes that its actions within the Region may affect the value of the Licensed Marks and Name nationwide. limited to use of such symbols or words as BCBSA shall specify to protect the Licensed Marks and Name and shall comply with such rules (generally applicable to Controlled Affiliates licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name) relative to service mark use, as are issued from time-to-time by BCBSA. Controlled Affiliate recognizes and agrees that all use of the Licensed Marks and Name by Controlled Affiliate shall inure to the benefit of BCBSA. intended to transfer in the Region the goodwill associated therewith to another mark or name, nor may Controlled Affiliate engage in activity that may dilute or tarnish the unique value of the Licensed Marks and Name. connection with the sale, marketing and administration of regional PDP products and related services. law or otherwise, the rights granted hereunder and any such act shall be voidable at the sole option of any Controlling Plan or BCBSA. This Agreement and all rights and duties hereunder are personal to Controlled Affiliate. Controlled Affiliate shall promptly notify the Controlling Plans and the Controlling Plans shall promptly notify BCBSA of any 3. SERVICE MARK USE A. Controlled Affiliate recognizes the importance of a comprehensive national network of independent BCBSA licensees B. Controlled Affiliate shall at all times make proper service mark use of the Licensed Marks and Name, including but not C. Controlled Affiliate may not directly or indirectly use the Licensed Marks and Name in a manner that transfers or is D. Controlled Affiliate shall use its best efforts to promote and build the value of the Licensed Marks and Name in 4. SUBLICENSING AND ASSIGNMENT Controlled Affiliate shall not, directly or indirectly, sublicense, transfer, hypothecate, sell, encumber or mortgage, by operation of 5. INFRINGEMENT Exhibit 10.12 any party or entity in the event that: (i) any one of the Controlling Plans ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Marks and Name or (ii) pursuant to Paragraph 15(a)(x) of the Blue Shield License Agreement any one of the Controlling Plans ceases to be authorized to use the Licensed Names and Marks in the Region. forthwith terminated by the Controlling Plans or the affirmative vote of the majority of the Board of Directors of BCBSA present and voting at a special meeting expressly called by BCBSA for the purpose on ten (10) days written notice to the Controlling Plans advising of the specific matters at issue and granting the Controlling Plans an opportunity to be heard and to present their response to the Board for: (1) failure to comply with any applicable minimum capital or liquidity requirement under the quality control standards of this Agreement or (2) failure to comply with the "Organization and Governance" quality control standard of this Agreement or (3) impending financial insolvency or (4) failure to comply with any of the applicable requirements of Standards 2, 3, 4, or 5 of attached Exhibit A or (5) the pendency of any action instituted against the Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business or seeking the declaration or establishment of a trust for any of its property or business, unless this Controlled Affiliate License Agreement has been earlier terminated under paragraph 7(E) or (6) such other reason as is determined in good faith immediately and irreparably to threaten the integrity and reputation of BCBSA, the Plans (including the Controlling Plans), any other licensee including Controlled Affiliate and or the Licensed Marks and Name. provisions of this Agreement and not cure such failure within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice thereof (or commence a cure within such thirty day period and continue diligent efforts to all claims, damages, liabilities and costs of every kind, nature and description (except those arising solely as a result of BCBSA's negligence) that may arise as a result of or related to Controlled Affiliate's rendering of services under the Licensed Marks and Name. year and shall be automatically extended for additional one (1) year periods unless terminated pursuant to the provisions herein. B. This Agreement and all of Controlled Affiliate's rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by C. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, this license to use the Licensed Marks and Name may be D. Except as otherwise provided in Paragraphs 7(B), 7(C) or 7(E) herein, should Controlled Affiliate fail to comply with the 6. LIABILITY INDEMNIFICATION Controlled Affiliate and the Controlling Plans hereby agree to save, defend, indemnify and hold BCBSA harmless from and against 7. LICENSE TERM A. Except as otherwise provided herein, the license granted by this Agreement shall remain in effect for a period of one (1) Exhibit 10.12 any party or entity in the event that: complete the cure if such curing cannot reasonably be completed within such thirty day period) BCBSA or the Controlling Plans shall have the right to issue a notice that the Controlled Affiliate is in a state of noncompliance. If a state of noncompliance as aforesaid is undisputed by the Controlled Affiliate or is found to exist by a mandatory dispute resolution panel and is uncured as provided above, BCBSA shall have the right to seek judicial enforcement of the Agreement or to issue a notice of termination thereof. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, any disputes as to the termination of this License pursuant to Paragraphs 7(B), 7(C) or 7(E) of this Agreement shall not be subject to mediation and mandatory dispute resolution. All other disputes between or among BCBSA, any of the Controlling Plans and or Controlled Affiliate shall be submitted promptly to mediation and mandatory dispute resolution. The mandatory dispute resolution panel shall have authority to issue orders for specific performance and assess monetary penalties. Except, however, as provided in Paragraphs 7(B) and 7(E) of this Agreement, this license to use the Licensed Marks and Name may not be finally terminated for any reason without the affirmative vote of a majority of the present and voting members of the Board of Directors of BCBSA. royalties for this License Agreement, are more than sixty (60) days in arrears to BCBSA or reorganization, arrangement with creditors or other relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or any other law governing insolvency or debtor relief, or (ii) an involuntary petition or proceeding shall be filed against Controlled Affiliate seeking bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement with creditors or other relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or any other law governing insolvency or debtor relief and such petition or proceeding is consented to or acquiesced in by Controlled Affiliate or is not dismissed within sixty (60) days of the date upon which the petition or other document commencing the proceeding is served upon the Controlled Affiliate, or (iii) an order for relief is entered against Controlled Affiliate in any case under the bankruptcy laws of the United States, or Controlled Affiliate is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent as those terms are defined in the Uniform Commercial Code as enacted in the State of Illinois by any court of competent jurisdiction, or (iv) Controlled Affiliate makes a general assignment of its assets for the benefit of creditors, or (v) any government or any government official, office, agency, branch, or unit assumes control of Controlled Affiliate or delinquency proceedings (voluntary or involuntary) are instituted, or (vi) an action is brought by Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking the appointment of a trustee, interim E. This Agreement and all of Controlled Affiliate's rights hereunder shall immediately terminate without any further action by (1) Controlled Affiliate shall no longer comply with item 2(E) above (2) Appropriate dues, royalties and other payments for Controlled Affiliate pursuant to paragraph 9 hereof, which are the (3) Any of the following events occur: (i) a voluntary petition shall be filed by Controlled Affiliate seeking bankruptcy, Exhibit 10.12 trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business, or (vii) an action is instituted by any governmental entity or officer against Controlled Affiliate seeking its dissolution or liquidation of its assets or seeking the appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of its property or business and such action is consented to or acquiesced in by Controlled Affiliate or is not dismissed within one hundred thirty (130) days of the date upon which the pleading or other document commencing the action is served upon the Controlled Affiliate, provided that if the action is stayed or its prosecution is enjoined, the one hundred thirty (130) day period is tolled for the duration of the stay or injunction, and provided further, that the Association s Board of Directors may toll or extend the 130 day period at any time prior to its expiration, or (viii) a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for any of Controlled Affiliate's property or business is appointed or the Controlled Affiliate is ordered dissolved or liquidated. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, a declaration or a request for declaration of the existence of a trust over any of the Controlled Affiliate s property or business shall not in itself be deemed to constitute or seek appointment of a trustee, interim trustee, receiver or other custodian for purposes of subparagraphs 7(E)(3)(vii) and (viii) of this Agreement. discontinue all use of the Licensed Marks and Name, including any use in its trade name, except to the extent that it continues to be authorized to use the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan. products or services under the Licensed Marks pursuant to this Agreement that it is no longer a licensee of BCBSA and, if directed by the Association s Board of Directors, shall provide instruction on how the customer can contact BCBSA or a designated licensee to obtain further information on securing coverage. The notification required by this paragraph shall be in writing and in a form approved by BCBSA. The BCBSA shall have the right to audit the terminated entity's books and records to verify compliance with this paragraph. Paragraph 7(G) shall not apply and the following provisions shall apply, except that, in the event that Controlled Affiliate is separately licensed by BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks in the Service Area of a Controlling Plan and termination of this Agreement is due to a partial termination of such Controlling Plan s license pursuant to Paragraph 15(a)(x)(ii) of the Blue Shield License Agreement, the notices, national account listing, payment, and audit right listed below shall be applicable solely with respect to the Region and the geographic area for which the Controlling Plan s license to use the Licensed Names and Marks is terminated: F. Upon termination of this Agreement for cause or otherwise, Controlled Affiliate agrees that it shall immediately G. Upon termination of this Agreement, Controlled Affiliate shall immediately notify all of its customers to whom it provides H. In the event this Agreement terminates pursuant to 7(B) hereof, upon termination of this Agreement the provisions of Exhibit 10.12 agreement with BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Name, the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans shall be jointly liable for payment to BCBSA of an amount equal to 25 multiplied by the number of Licensed Enrollees of the Controlled Affiliate provided that if any Plan other than a Controlling Plan is permitted by BCBSA to use marks or names licensed by BCBSA in a geographic area in the Region, the payment for Licensed Enrollees in such geographic area shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of Licensed Enrollees of the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans in such geographic area and the denominator of which is the total number of Licensed Enrollees in such geographic area. Licensed Enrollee means each and every person and covered dependent who is enrolled as an individual or member of a group receiving products or services sold, marketed or administered under marks or names licensed by BCBSA as determined at the earlier of (i) the end of the last fiscal year of the terminated entity which ended prior to termination or (ii) the fiscal year which ended before any transactions causing the termination began. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount payable pursuant to this subparagraph H. (3) shall be due only to the extent that, in BCBSA s opinion, it does not cause the net worth of the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans or any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans to fall below 100% of the Health Risk-Based Capital formula, or its equivalent under any successor formula, as set forth in the applicable financial responsibility standards established by BCBSA (provided such equivalent is approved for purposes of this subparagraph by the affirmative vote of three- fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans) measured as of the date of termination, and adjusted for the value of any transactions not made in the ordinary course of business. This payment shall not be due in connection with transactions exclusively by or among Plans (including the Controlling Plans) or their affiliates, including reorganizations, combinations or mergers, where the BCBSA Board of Directors determines that the license group customers, providers, brokers and agents of products or services sold, marketed, underwritten or administered by the Controlled Affiliate under the Licensed Marks and Name. The form and content of the notice shall be specified by BCBSA and shall, at a minimum, notify the recipient of the termination of the license, the consequences thereof, and instructions for obtaining alternate products or services licensed by BCBSA. This notice shall be mailed within 15 days after termination. which the Controlled Affiliate is involved (in a control, participating or servicing capacity), identifying the national account and the Controlled Affiliate s role therein. (3) Unless the cause of termination is an event respecting BCBSA stated in paragraph 15(a) or (b) of the Plan s license (1) The Controlled Affiliate shall send a notice through the U.S. mails, with first class postage affixed, to all individual and (2) The Controlled Affiliate shall deliver to BCBSA within five days of a request by BCBSA a listing of national accounts in Exhibit 10.12 termination does not result in a material diminution in the number of Licensed Enrollees or the extent of their coverage. In the event that the Controlled Affiliate s license is reinstated by BCBSA or is deemed to have remained in effect without interruption by a court of competent jurisdiction, BCBSA shall reimburse the Controlled Affiliate (and or the Controlling Plans or their other Licensed Controlled Affiliates, as the case may be) for payments made under this subparagraph 7.H.(3) only to the extent that such payments exceed the amounts due to BCBSA pursuant to paragraph 7.K. and any costs associated with reestablishing the terminated Controlling Plan s Service Area or the Region, including any payments made by BCBSA to a Plan or Plans (including the other Controlling Plans), or their Licensed Controlled Affiliates, for purposes of replacing the Controlled Affiliate. other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans to verify compliance with this paragraph 7.H. competent jurisdiction. As to a breach of 7.H.(1), (2) or (4) by the Controlled Affiliate, the parties agree there is no adequate remedy at law and BCBSA is entitled to obtain specific performance. into any transaction which would result in a termination of this Agreement unless a Controlling Plan s license from BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Names has been terminated pursuant to 10(d) of such Controlling Plan s license agreement upon the required 6 month written notice. effect without interruption by a court of competent jurisdiction, the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans, and any other Licensed Controlled Affiliates of the Controlling Plans shall be jointly liable for reimbursing BCBSA the reasonable costs incurred by BCBSA in connection with the termination and the reinstatement or court action, and any associated legal proceedings, including but not limited to: outside legal fees, consulting fees, public relations fees, advertising costs, and costs incurred to develop, lease or establish an interim provider network. Any amount due to BCBSA under this subparagraph may be waived in whole or in part by the BCBSA Board of Directors in its sole discretion. (4) BCBSA shall have the right to audit the books and records of the Controlled Affiliate, the Controlling Plans, and any (5) As to a breach of 7.H.(1), (2), (3) or (4), the parties agree that the obligations are immediately enforceable in a court of I. BCBSA shall be entitled to enjoin the Controlled Affiliate or any related party in a court of competent jurisdiction from entry J. BCBSA acknowledges that it is not the owner of assets of the Controlled Affiliate. K. In the event this Agreement terminates and is subsequently reinstated by BCBSA or is deemed to have remained in Exhibit 10.12 Controlled Affiliates of Plans that use in any manner the Blue Shield and Blue Shield Marks and Name are subject to the Mediation and Mandatory Dispute Resolution process attached to and made a part of each Controlling Plan s License from BCBSA to use the Licensed Marks and Name as Exhibit 5 as amended from time-to-time, which documents are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth herein. between the Controlling Plans and Controlled Affiliate or between either and BCBSA. only be amended by the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the Plans and three-fourths of the total then current weighted vote of all the Plans as officially recorded by the BCBSA Corporate Secretary. in duplicate to the last known address of each other party, marked respectively to the attention of its President and, if any, its General Counsel. The parties agree that any disputes between or among them or between or among any of them and one or more Plans or Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as creating a joint venture, partnership, agency or employment relationship This Agreement contains the complete understandings of the parties in relation to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may 8. DISPUTE RESOLUTION 9. LICENSE FEE Controlled Affiliate will pay to BCBSA a fee for this License determined pursuant to the formula(s) set forth in Exhibit B. 10. JOINT VENTURE 11. NOTICES AND CORRESPONDENCE Notices regarding the subject matter of this Agreement or breach or termination thereof shall be in writing and shall be addressed 12. COMPLETE AGREEMENT Exhibit 10.12 License Agreement and or the Blue Shield License Agreement, and in all votes of the Plans under this Agreement the Plans shall vote together. For weighted votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have a number of votes equal to the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Cross Plan plus the number of weighted votes (if any) that it holds as a Blue Shield Plan. For all other votes of the Plans, the Plan shall have one vote. For all questions requiring an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote of the Plans, the requirement shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless the greater of: (i) 6 52 or more of the Plans (rounded to the nearest whole number, with 0.5 or multiples thereof being rounded to the next higher whole number) fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question or (ii) three (3) of the Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, if there are thirty-nine (39) Plans, the requirement of an affirmative three-fourths weighted vote shall be deemed satisfied with a lesser weighted vote unless four (4) or more Plans fail to cast weighted votes in favor of the question. remaining obligations of the parties hereunder and the court may substitute a lawful term or condition for any unlawful term or condition so long as the effect of such substitution is to provide the parties with the benefits of this Agreement. terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach or default in performance of said terms, covenants or conditions. 13. SEVERABILITY If any term of this Agreement is held to be unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction, such findings shall in no way affect the 14. NONWAIVER No waiver by BCBSA of any breach or default in performance on the part of Controlled Affiliate or any other licensee of any of the 14A. VOTING For all provisions of this Agreement referring to voting, the term Plans shall mean all entities licensed under the Blue Cross 15. GOVERNING LAW This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of Illinois. 16. HEADINGS The headings inserted in this agreement are for convenience only and shall have no bearing on the interpretation hereof. Exhibit 10.12 Date: Controlling Plan: Date: Controlling Plan: BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION Date: IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this License Agreement to be executed and effective as of the date of last signature written below. Controlled Affiliate: Exhibit 10.12 CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO REGIONAL MEDICARE PART D PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN PRODUCTS November 2019 PREAMBLE The standards for licensing Controlled Affiliates for Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan Products are established by BCBSA and are subject to change from time- to-time upon the affirmative vote of three-fourths (3 4) of the Plans and three-fourths (3 4) of the total weighted vote. Each Controlling Plan is required to use a standard Controlled Affiliate license form provided by BCBSA and to cooperate fully in assuring that the licensed Controlled Affiliate maintains compliance with the license standards. Standard 1 - Organization and Governance A Controlled Affiliate is defined as an entity organized and operated in such a manner, that it meets the following requirements: in a geographic area in the Region and every geographic area in the Region is so licensed to at least one of the Controlling Plans and Controlled Affiliate with which the Controlling Plans do not concur Affiliate and (1) Controlled Affiliate is owned or controlled by two or more Controlling (2) Each Controlling Plan is authorized pursuant to a separate Blue Shield License Agreement to use the Licensed Marks (3) The Controlling Plans must have the legal authority directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries: (a) to select members of the Controlled Affiliate s governing body having not less than 100% voting control thereof (b) prevent any change in the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other establishing or governing documents of the (c) exercise control over the policy and operations of the Controlled Exhibit 10.12 EXHIBIT A (continued) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in (a) through (c) hereof, the Controlled Affiliate s establishing or governing documents must also require written approval by each of the Controlling Plans before the Controlled Affiliate can: In addition, the Controlling Plans directly or indirectly through wholly-owned subsidiaries shall own 100% of any for-profit Controlled Affiliate. Standard 2 - Financial Responsibility A Controlled Affiliate shall be operated in a manner that provides reasonable financial assurance that it can fulfill all of its contractual obligations to its customers. Standard 3 - State Licensure Certification A Controlled Affiliate shall maintain appropriate and unimpaired licensure and certifications. (i) change its legal and or trade names (ii) change the geographic area in which it operates (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the Controlled Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) (iii) change any of the type(s) of businesses in which it engages (except such approval shall not be required with respect to business of the Controlled Affiliate conducted under the Licensed Marks within the Service Area of one of the Controlling Plans pursuant to a separate controlled affiliate license agreement with BCBSA sponsored by such Controlling Plan) (iv) take any action that any Controlling Plan or BCBSA reasonably believes will adversely affect the Licensed Marks and Name. Exhibit 10.12 During each year, a Controlled Affiliate shall use its best efforts to promote and build the value of the Blue Shield Marks. EXHIBIT A (continued) Standard 4 - Certain Disclosures A Controlled Affiliate shall make adequate disclosure in contracting with third parties and in disseminating public statements of: Standard 5 - Reports and Records for Controlled Affiliates A Controlled Affiliate and or its Controlling Plans shall furnish, on a timely and accurate basis, reports and records relating to these Standards and the License Agreements between BCBSA and Controlled Affiliate. Standard 6 - Best Efforts Standard 7 - Participation in Master Business Associate Agreement Controlled Affiliates shall comply with the terms of the Business Associate Agreement for Blue Cross and Blue Shield Licensees to the extent they perform the functions of a business associate or subcontractor to a business associate, as defined by the Business Associate Agreement. a. the structure of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield System and b. the independent nature of every licensee. Exhibit 10.12 Controlled Affiliate will pay BCBSA a fee for this license in accordance with the following formula: An amount equal to its pro rata share of each Controlling Plan dues payable to BCBSA computed with the addition of the Controlled Affiliate's members using the Marks on regional PDP products and related services as reported on the Quarterly Enrollment Report with BCBSA. The payment by each Controlling Plan of its dues to BCBSA, including that portion described in this paragraph, will satisfy the requirement of this paragraph, and no separate payment will be necessary. ROYALTY FORMULA FOR SECTION 9 OF THE CONTROLLED AFFILIATE LICENSE AGREEMENTS APPLICABLE TO REGIONAL MEDICARE PART D PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN PRODUCTS Amended as of June 14, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 Membership Standards Page 1 of 5 The Membership Standards apply to all organizations seeking to become or to continue as Regular Members of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. Any organization seeking to become a Regular Member must be found to be in substantial compliance with all Membership Standards at the time membership is granted and the organization must be found to be in substantial compliance with all Membership Standards for a period of two (2) years preceding the date of its application. If Membership is sought by an entity which controls or is controlled by one or more Plans, such compliance shall be determined on the basis of compliance by such Plan or Plans. The Regular Member Plans shall have authority to interpret these Standards. A Regular Member Plan that operates as a Shell Holding Company is defined as an entity that assumes no underwriting risk and has less than 1% of the consolidated enterprise assets (excludes investments in subsidiaries) and less than 5% of the consolidated enterprise net general and administrative expenses. A Regular Member Plan that operates as a Hybrid Holding Company is defined as an entity that assumes no underwriting risk and has either more than 1% of the consolidated enterprise assets (excludes investments in subsidiaries) or more than 5% of the consolidated enterprise net general and administrative expenses. Standard 1: A Plan shall maintain a governing Board, which shall control the Plan and ensure that the Plan follows appropriate practices of corporate governance. A Plan's Board shall not be controlled by any special interest group, shall make an annual determination that a majority of its directors are independent, and shall act in the best interest of its Corporation and its customers. The Board shall be composed of a majority of persons other than providers of health care services, who shall be known as public members. A public member shall not be an employee of or have a financial interest in a health care provider, nor be a member of a profession which provides health care services. Amended as of March 15, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 EXHIBIT 2 Membership Standards Page 2 of 5 Standard 2: A Plan shall furnish to the Association on a timely and accurate basis reports and records relating to compliance with these Standards and the License Agreements between the Association and the Plans. Such reports and records are the following: A. BCBSA Membership Information Request B. Triennial trade name and service mark usage material, including disclosure material under Standard 7 C. Changes in the governance of the Plan, including changes in a Plan's Charter, Articles of Incorporation, or Bylaws, changes in a Plan's Board composition, or changes in the identity of the Plan's Principal Officers D. Quarterly Financial Report, Semi-annual Health Risk- Based Capital (HRBC) Report as defined by the NAIC, Annual Budget, Annual Certified Audit Report, Insurance Department Examination Report, Annual Statement filed with State Insurance Department (with all attachments), Plan, Subsidiary and Affiliate Report and Plans that are a Shell Holding Company as defined in the Preamble hereto are required to furnish only a calendar year-end Health Risk-Based Capital (HRBC) Report as defined by the NAIC. Amended as of November 17, 2011 Exhibit 10.12 Standard 3: A Plan shall be operated in a manner that provides reasonable financial assurance that it can fulfill its contractual obligations to its customers. Standard 4: A Plan shall be operated in a manner responsive to customer needs and requirements. Standard 5: A Plan shall effectively and efficiently participate in each national program as from time to time may be adopted by the Member Plans for the purposes of providing portability of membership between the Plans and ease of claims processing for customers receiving benefits outside of the Plan's Service Area. Membership Standards Page 3 of 5 E. Quarterly Enrollment Report, Quarterly Member Touchpoint Measures Index (MTM) through 12 31 2011, and Semi- annual MTM Index starting 1 1 2012 and thereafter. Such programs are applicable to Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans, and include: A. Inter-Plan Teleprocessing System (ITS) B. BlueCard Program C. National Account Programs D. Business Associate Agreement for Blue Cross and Blue Shield Licensees, effective April 14, 2003 and E. Inter-Plan Medicare Advantage Program. For purposes of MTM reporting only, a Plan shall file a separate MTM report for each Geographic Market. Amended as of November 21, 2014 Exhibit 10.12 Standard 6: In addition to requirements under the national programs listed in Standard 5: Participation in National Programs, a Plan shall take such action as required to ensure its financial performance in programs and contracts of an inter-Plan nature or where the Association is a party. Standard 7: A Plan shall make adequate disclosure in contracting with third parties and in disseminating public statements of (i) the structure of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield System, (ii) the independent nature of every Plan, and (iii) the Plan's financial condition. Standard 8: A Plan shall cooperate with the Association's Board of Directors and its Brand Enhancement & Protection Committee in the administration of the Plan Performance Response Process and in addressing Plan performance problems identified thereunder. Standard 9: A Plan shall obtain a rating of its financial strength from an independent rating agency approved by the Association's Board of Directors for such purpose. Standard 10: Notwithstanding any other provision in this License Agreement, during each year, a Plan and its Controlled Affiliate(s) engaged in providing licensable services (excluding Life Insurance and Charitable Foundation Services) shall use their best efforts to promote and build the value of the Blue Shield Marks. Standard 11: Neither a Plan nor any Larger Controlled Affiliate shall cause or permit an entity other than a Plan or a Licensed Controlled Affiliate thereof to obtain control of the Plan or Larger Controlled Affiliate or to acquire a substantial portion of its assets related to licensable services. Membership Standards Page 4 of 5 Amended as of June 16, 2005 Exhibit 10.12 Standard 12: No provider network, or portion thereof, shall be rented or otherwise made available to a National Competitor if the Licensed Marks or Names are used in any way with such network. Standard 13: Each Plan shall operate in a manner to reasonably: 1) protect the security and confidentiality of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and Protected Health Information (PHI) 2) protect the Brands from reputational damage and 3) cooperate with BCBSA and other Plans if a data security incident or data breach occurs. Membership Standards Page 5 of 5 A provider network may be rented or otherwise made available, provided there is no use of the Licensed Marks or Names with respect to the network being rented. Amended as of June 18, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 2. A National Account is an entity with employee and or retiree locations in more than one Plan's Service Area. Unless otherwise agreed, a National Account is deemed located in the Service Area in which the corporate headquarters of the National Account is located. A local plant, office or division headquarters of an entity may be deemed a separate National Account when that local plant, office or division headquarters 1) has employee locations in more than one Service Area, and 2) has independent health benefit decision-making authority for the employees working at such local plant, office or division headquarters and for employees working at other locations outside the Service Area. In such a case, the local plant, office or division headquarters is a National Account that is deemed located in the Service Area in which such local plant, office or division headquarters is located. The Control Plan of a National Account is the Plan in whose Service Area the National Account is located. A participating ("Par") Plan is a Plan in whose Service Area the National Account has employee and or retiree locations, but in which the National Account is not located. In the event that a National Account parent company consolidates health benefit-decision making for itself and its wholly-owned subsidiary companies, the parent company and the subsidiary companies shall be considered one National Account. The Control Plan for such a National Account shall be the Plan in whose Service Area the parent company headquarters is located. 3. The National Account Guidelines enunciated herein below shall be applicable only with respect to the business of new National Accounts acquired after January 1, 1991. 4. Control Plans shall utilize National Account identification cards complying with then currently effective BCBSA graphic standards in connection with all National Accounts business to facilitate administration thereof, to minimize subscriber and provider confusion, and to reflect a commitment to cooperation among Plans. GUIDELINES WITH RESPECT TO USE OF LICENSED NAME AND MARKS IN CONNECTION WITH NATIONAL ACCOUNTS Page 1 of 3 1. The strength of the Blue Cross Blue Shield National Accounts mechanism, and the continued provision of cost effective, quality health care benefits to National Accounts, are predicated on locally managed provider networks coordinated on a national scale in a manner consistent with effective service to National Account customers and consistent with the preservation of the integrity of the Blue Cross Blue Shield system and the Licensed Marks. These guidelines shall be interpreted in keeping with such ends. Amended as of June 12, 2003 Exhibit 10.12 6. The Control Plan may use the BlueCard Program (as defined by IPPC) to deliver benefits to employees and non-Medicare eligible retirees in a Participating Plan s service area if an alternative arrangement with the Participating Plan cannot be negotiated. The Participating Plan s minimum servicing requirement for those employees and non-Medicare retirees in its service area is to deliver benefits using the BlueCard Program. Account delivery is subject to the policies, provisions and procedures of the BlueCard Program. 7. For provider payments in a Participating Plan s area (on non-BlueCard claims), payment to the provider may be made by the Participating Plan or the Control Plan at the Participating Plan's option. If the Participating Plan elects to pay the provider, it may not withhold payment of a claim verified by the Control Plan or its designated processor, and payment must be in conformity with service criteria established by the Board of Directors of BCBSA (or an authorized committee thereof) to assure prompt payment, good service and minimum confusion with providers and subscribers. The Control Plan, at the Participating Plan's request, will also assure that measures are taken to protect the confidentiality of the data pertaining to provider reimbursement levels and profiles. Page 2 of 3 5. Disputes among Plans and or BCBSA as to the interpretation or implementation of these Guidelines or as to other National Accounts issues shall be submitted to mediation and mandatory dispute resolution as provided in the License Agreement. For two years from the effective date of the License Agreement, however, such disputes shall be subject to mediation only, with the results of such mediation to be collected and reported in order to establish more definitive operating parameters for National Accounts business and to serve as ground rules for future binding dispute resolution. Amended as of June 14, 1996 Exhibit 10.12 Page 3 of 3 8. The Control Plan, in its financial agreements with a National Account, is expected to reasonably reflect the aggregate amount of differentials passed along to the Control Plan by all Participating Plans in a National Account. 9. Other than in contracting with health care providers or soliciting such contracts in areas contiguous to a Plan's Service Area in order to serve its subscribers or those of its licensed Controlled Affiliate residing or working in its Service Area, a Control Plan may not use the Licensed Marks and or Name, as a tag line or otherwise, to negotiate directly with providers outside its Service Area. Amended as of March 13, 2003 Exhibit 10.12 GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS AND CERTAIN OTHER USES Page 1 of 14 1. A Plan and its licensed Controlled Affiliate may use the Licensed Marks and Name in bidding on and executing a contract to serve a Government Program, and in thereafter communicating with the Government concerning the Program. With respect, however, to such contracts entered into after the 1st day of January, 1991, the Licensed Marks and Name will not be used in communications or transactions with beneficiaries or providers in the Government Program located outside a Plan's Service Area, unless the Plan can demonstrate to the satisfaction of BCBSA's governing body that such a restriction on use of the Licensed Marks and Name will jeopardize its ability to procure the contract for the Government Program. As to both existing and future contracts for Government Programs, Plans will discontinue use of the Licensed Marks and Name as to beneficiaries and Providers outside their Service Area as expeditiously as circumstances reasonably permit. Effective January 1, 1995, except as provided in the first sentence above, all use by a Plan of the Licensed Marks and Name in Government Programs outside of the Plan's Service Area shall be discontinued. Incidental communications outside a Plan's Service Area with resident or former resident beneficiaries of the Plan, and other categories of necessary incidental communications approved by BCBSA, are not prohibited. For purposes of this Paragraph 1, the term Government Programs shall mean Medicare Part A, Medicare Part B and other non-risk government programs. 2. In connection with activity otherwise in furtherance of the License Agreement, a Plan and its Controlled Affiliates that are licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name in its Service Area pursuant to the Controlled Affiliate License Agreements authorized in clauses a) through c) of Paragraph 2 of the Plan s License Agreement with BCBSA may use the Licensed Marks and Name outside the Plan s Service Area in the following circumstances which are deemed legitimate and necessary and not likely to cause consumer confusion: 2.1. Common Business Communications c. advertising in publications or electronic media solely to persons for employment a. sending letterhead, envelopes, and similar items solely for administrative purposes (e.g., not for purposes of marketing, advertising, promoting, selling or soliciting the sale of health care plans and related services) b. distributing business cards other than in marketing and selling Amended as of June 19, 2014 Exhibit 10.12 Page 2 of 14 2.2. Marketing Spillover 2.3. Provider Contracting a. advertising in print, electronic or other media which serve, as a substantial market, the Service Area of the Plan or licensed Controlled Affiliate, provided that no Plan or Controlled Affiliate may advertise outside its Service Area on the national broadcast and cable networks and that advertisements in national print media are limited to the smallest regional edition encompassing the Service Area b. advertising by direct mail where the addressee's zip code plus 4 includes, at least in part, the Plan's Service Area or that of a licensed Controlled Affiliate a. contracting with health care providers or soliciting such contracts in areas contiguous to the Plan's Service Area in order to serve its subscribers or those of such licensed Controlled Affiliates residing or working in its service area b. issuing a small sign containing the legal name or trade name of the Plan or such licensed Controlled Affiliates for display by a provider to identify the latter as a participating provider of the Plan or Controlled Affiliate c. negotiating case-specific reimbursement rates with a provider that does not have a contract applicable to a specific member s services rendered or to be rendered with the Licensee (or any of the Licensees in the case of overlapping Service Areas) in whose Service Area the health care provider is located, so long as (1) the Licensee engaging in the negotiations complies with all applicable Inter-Plan Programs Policies and Provisions and Brand Regulations related to case-specific rate negotiations, and (2) the Licensee (or all Licensees in the case of overlapping Service Areas) in whose Service Area the health care provider is located provides consent before negotiations commence. Amended as of January 22, 2019 Exhibit 10.12 Page 3 of 14 d. contracting with a pharmacy management organization ( Pharmacy Intermediary ) to gain access to a national or regional pharmacy network to provide self-administered prescription drugs to deliver a pharmacy benefit for all of the Plan s or licensed Controlled Affiliate s members nationwide, provided, however, that the Pharmacy Intermediary may not use the Licensed Marks or Name in contracting with the pharmacy providers in such network Amended as of January 22, 2019 Exhibit 10.12 Page 4 of 14 e. contracting with the corporate owner of a national or regional retail pharmacy chain to gain access to the pharmacies in the chain to provide self-administered prescription drugs to deliver a pharmacy benefit for all of the Plan s or licensed Controlled Affiliate s members nationwide, provided that (1) the Plan and the Controlled Affiliate may not contract directly with pharmacists or pharmacy stores outside the Plan s Service Area, and (2) neither the Plan s or the Controlled Affiliate s name nor the Licensed Marks or Name may be posted or otherwise displayed at or by any pharmacy store outside the Plan s Service Area f. contracting with a dental management organization ( Dental Intermediary ) to gain access to a national or regional dental network to deliver a routine dental benefit for all of the Plan s or licensed Controlled Affiliate s members nationwide, provided, however, that the Dental Intermediary may not use the Licensed Marks or Name in contracting with the dental providers in such network g. contracting with a vision management organization ( Vision Intermediary ) to gain access to a national or regional vision network to deliver a routine vision benefit for all of the Plan s or licensed Controlled Affiliate s members nationwide, provided, however, that the Vision Intermediary may not use the Licensed Marks or Name in contracting with the vision providers in such network h. contracting with an independent clinical laboratory for analysis and clinical assessment of specimens that are collected within the Plan s Service Area i. contracting with a durable medical equipment or home medical equipment company for durable medical equipment and supplies and home medical equipment and supplies that are shipped to a location within the Plan s Service Area j. contracting with a specialty pharmaceutical company for non-routine biological therapeutics that are ordered by a health care professional located within the Plan s Service Area Exhibit 10.12 Page 5 of 14 2.4. Services to National Accounts k. contracting with a company that operates provider sites in the Plan s Service Area, provided that the contract is solely for services rendered at a site (e.g., hospital, mobile van) that is within the Plan s Service Area l. contracting with a company that makes health care professionals available in the Plan s Service Area (e.g., traveling home health nurse), provided that the contract is solely for services rendered by health care professionals who are located within the Plan s Service Area. a. in conjunction with contracting with a National Account as Control Licensee or Alternate Control Licensee (as those terms are defined in the Inter-Plan Programs Policies and Provisions ( IP Policies )) to offer Blue-branded Health Coverage to the National Account, offering Blue- branded Health and Wellness Programs to all members of the National Account, including members who have not enrolled in the Blue- branded Health Coverage ( non-Blue Health Coverage members ), provided that: (ii) if in accordance with IP Policies another Licensee is soliciting or servicing under the Brands a local plant, office or division of the account that is outside of the Plan s Service Area, the Plan and or licensed Controlled Affiliate may not offer Blue-branded Health and Wellness Programs to any employees working at such local plant, office or division without the consent of such other Licensee and (iii) if the Plan and or licensed Controlled Affiliate provides an information card to the non-Blue Health Coverage members, the card may not display the Symbols in the masthead, must contain a prominent disclosure conveying that it is not a health insurance card, and otherwise must be designed so that it is dissimilar to a Blue member identification card. (i) the Plan and or Licensed Controlled Affiliate has no contact or interaction with providers outside of the Plan s Service Area, except as specifically provided in the IP Policies and in 2.4(b) and Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 Page 6 of 14 2.4. Services to National Accounts (continued) b. as part of a Health and Wellness Program that is otherwise compliant with Brand Regulation 4.11.4(a), contracting with a health and wellness organization to gain access to providers to deliver a discrete health and wellness event ( Event ) held at a National Account s worksite outside of the Licensee s Service Area, provided that: For purposes of this subparagraph a, the following definitions apply: Health and Wellness Program shall mean a program that includes at least one of the following elements or a related element: Health Risk Assessment and or Preventive Screenings Exercise and Fitness Programs Health and Wellness Events (e.g., attendance at a health fair, a 5K walk) Nutrition and Weight Management Health Education (e.g., smoking cessation classes) Prenatal and Parenting Education Disease or Chronic Condition Management The above listing is intended to represent examples of the types of programs that may be offered, and other programs, including those offered through different media such as the internet or telephonically, may also be deemed Health and Wellness programs. Health Coverage shall mean providing or administering medical, surgical, hospital, major medical, or catastrophic coverage, or any HMO, PPO, POS or other managed care plan for the foregoing services. (i) the services delivered at the Event are limited to fingerstick screenings for cholesterol and glucose, seasonal flu immunizations, blood pressure measurements, body mass index measurements, and other routine screenings, immunizations and measurements and (ii) neither such services nor their costs are applied as claims against any benefit plan and (iii) the Event is presented during one or more limited periods during a benefit year and is available to all employees at the worksite. Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 Page 7 of 14 For purposes of this subparagraph b, the following definitions apply: Health Coverage has the meaning set forth in subparagraph 2.4.a. d. in conjunction with contracting with a National Account as Control Licensee or Alternate Control Licensee to perform or investigate fraud, waste and abuse investigation activities for a non-participating provider in a Par Host Plan s service area, as long as the Control Home Plan is given permission to do so by the Par Host Plan and specific conditions are met in accordance with Inter-Plan Programs and Inter-Plan Medicare Advantage Program policies. c. in conjunction with contracting with a National Account as Control Licensee or Alternate Control Licensee to offer Blue- branded Health Coverage to the National Account, performing the Eligibility and Enrollment functions of HR administration for all benefit plans offered by the National Account to its members, including benefit plans that are not underwritten or administered by the Plan, provided that: (i) in performing such functions, the Plan and or licensed Controlled Affiliate does not use the Brands in any communications with health care providers outside of the Plan s Service Area, and otherwise limits its use of the Brands outside of the Service Area to communications with the account s members, the other benefit plan providers with which the account has contracted and other reasonably necessary communications to perform such functions and (ii) if in accordance with IP Policies another Licensee is soliciting or servicing under the Brands a local plant, office or division of the account that is outside of the Plan s Service Area, the Plan and or licensed Controlled Affiliate may not perform Eligibility and Enrollment functions for employees working at such local plant, office or division without the consent of such other Licensee Amended as of September 27, 2018 Exhibit 10.12 Page 8 of 14 Eligibility means services that manage the account s eligibility data and determine or process determinations relating to eligibility for benefit plans offered by the account to its employees, including such services as: Enrollment means services that enroll eligible individuals and their spouses dependents or terminate or change their enrollment in the account s benefit plans on an ongoing basis and during open enrollment periods, including such services as: monitoring and auditing data to ensure that only entitled individuals are enrolled in each such benefit plan review of eligibility documentation (e.g. marriage licenses, birth certificates, student status verification letters, employment records) identification of key member segments such as over-age dependents, part-time employees, employees reaching certain milestones (e.g. Medicare-eligible, retirees) termination of coverage for those individuals found to be ineligible for coverage under a benefit plan, and, if applicable, generation of a COBRA event and management of hour-banking for union environments in which union members can bank hours to remain eligible for benefits. the coordination of each step in open enrollment process from project planning and system set-up to the generation of confirmation statements ongoing enrollment support for new hires and changes due to life events and work status adjustments evidence of insurability (EOI) administration for life and disability coverage transmission of eligibility enrollment information to the account s benefit plan providers review and reconciliation of error reports received from the account s benefit plan providers and transmission of information to the account s payroll system (e.g., benefit deductions, employee demographic data). Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 Page 9 of 14 2.5. Knowledge Sharing a. submitting scholarly articles authored or co-authored by the Plan or Controlled Affiliate or its respective employees for publication in peer- reviewed journals b. permitting an internal representative of the Licensee (e.g., officer, employee) to speak or present at a conference or symposium outside of the Licensee s Service Area regarding either (i) healthcare financing, administration, delivery or policy, or (ii) topics within the representative s functional discipline or expertise at the Licensee, for which the event sponsor will issue communications to promote, administer, and or recap the event that will identify the Licensee s representative as a participant. The communications outside of the Licensee s Service Area that mention the Licensee s representative shall be limited to materials and digital media provided to attendees, on-site signage, advertising in relevant trade publications, direct mail and email to attendees and prospective attendees, and the sponsor s website, Participation in any conference or symposium outside of the Licensee s Service Area may not be for the purpose of marketing or selling products or services. If the Licensee s representative wishes to use the Brands in any manner, including use in his her title, when participating as a speaker or presenter outside of the Licensee s Service Area about a topic that is not related to healthcare financing, administration, delivery, or policy, or to topics within the representative s functional discipline or expertise at the Licensee, the Licensee must notify BCBSA and receive prior approval from BCBSA before participating. Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 Page 10 of 14 2.6. Other Uses a. entering into a license agreement between and among BCBSA, the Plan and a debit card issuer located outside the Plan s Service Area, and entering into a corresponding operating agreement or agreements, in order to offer a debit card bearing the Licensed Marks and Name to eligible persons as defined by the aforementioned license agreement b. appearing in communications issued by an independent third party to recognize outstanding performance of the Plan or Controlled Affiliate or a member of the Plan s or Controlled Affiliate s senior management as part of an established program of the third party for which the Plan has provided information to be considered for the recognition, provided that such use complies with regulations of general application specifically prescribed by BCBSA from time to time c. to identify itself as being a joint sponsor of an event, program or activity along with other Plans or such Plans licensed Controlled Affiliates, provided that such use complies with regulations of general application specifically prescribed by BCBSA from time to time d. hosting meetings or events (collectively, events ) in Washington, D.C. or a Plan s State Capitol related to policy and business issues in the Licensee s Service Area, or hosting events in conjunction with the assemblies or conventions of national political parties. Such events may not involve marketing or selling products or services. Use of the Brands outside the Licensee s Service Area in connection with such events shall be limited to materials and digital media provided to attendees and prospective attendees and onsite signage. For any such events in Washington, D.C. that are open to attendees other than government officials or their staffs, or are briefings open to all Congressional staff, or are otherwise likely to receive media coverage, the Licensee is required to provide advance notice to BCBSA. For events hosted outside of Washington, D.C. in conjunction with the assemblies or conventions of national political parties, the Licensee is required to provide advance notice to BCGSA and to the local Plan(s) Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 Page 11 of 14 3. In connection with activity otherwise in furtherance of the License Agreement, a Controlled Affiliate that is licensed to use the Licensed Marks and Name pursuant to a Controlled Affiliate License Agreement authorized in clauses d) or e) of Paragraph 2 of the Plan s License Agreement with BCBSA may use the Licensed Marks and Name outside the Region (as that term is defined in such respective Controlled Affiliate License Agreements) in the following circumstances which are deemed legitimate and necessary and not likely to cause consumer confusion: e. permitting an affiliate that is not licensed to use the Licensed Marks to identify its corporate relationship with the Plan, provided that such use complies with regulations of general application specifically prescribed by BCBSA from time to time. c. contracting with health care providers or soliciting such contracts in areas contiguous to the Region in order to serve its subscribers residing in the Region, provided that the Controlled Affiliate may not use the names of any of its Controlling Plans in connection with such contracting unless the provider is located in a geographic area that is also contiguous to such Controlling Plan s Service Area d. issuing a small sign containing the legal name or trade name of the Controlled Affiliate for display by a provider to identify the latter as a participating provider of the Controlled Affiliate, provided that the Controlled Affiliate may not use the names of any of its Controlling Plans on such signs unless the provider is located in a geographic area that is also contiguous to such Controlling Plan s Service Area a. sending letterhead, envelopes, and similar items solely for administrative purposes (e.g., not for purposes of marketing, advertising, promoting, selling or soliciting the sale of health care plans and related services) b. distributing business cards other than in marketing and selling e. advertising in publications or electronic media solely to persons for employment Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 Page 12 of 14 h. [Intentionally left blank, pending review by the Inter-Plan Programs Committee of the applicability of the case management rule to such Controlled Affiliates.] i. contracting with a pharmacy management organization ( Pharmacy Intermediary ) to gain access to a national or regional pharmacy network to provide self-administered prescription drugs to deliver a pharmacy benefit for the Controlled Affiliate s regional Medicare Advantage PPO or regional Medicare Part D Prescription Drug members enrolled under the Licensed Marks pursuant to such respective Controlled Affiliate License Agreements, provided, however, that the Pharmacy Intermediary may not use the Licensed Marks or Name in contracting with the pharmacy providers in such network j. contracting with the corporate owner of a national or regional retail pharmacy chain to gain access to the pharmacies in the chain to provide self-administered prescription drugs to deliver a pharmacy benefit to the Controlled Affiliate s regional Medicare Advantage PPO or regional Medicare Part D Prescription Drug members enrolled under the Licensed Marks pursuant to such respective f. advertising in print, electronic or other media which serve, as a substantial market, the Region, provided that the Controlled Affiliate may not advertise outside its Region on the national broadcast and cable networks and that advertisements in national print media are limited to the smallest regional edition encompassing the Region, and provided further that any such advertising by the Controlled Affiliate may not reference the name of any of its Controlling Plans unless the respective Controlling Plan is authorized under paragraph 2 of this Exhibit 4 to advertise in such media g. advertising by direct mail where the addressee's zip code plus 4 includes, at least in part, the Region, provided that such advertising by the Controlled Affiliate may not reference the name of any of its Controlling Plans unless the respective Controlling Plan is authorized under paragraph 2 of this Exhibit 4 to send direct mail to such zip code plus 4. Exhibit 10.12 Page 13 of 14 k. contracting with a dental management organization ( Dental Intermediary ) to gain access to a national or regional dental network to deliver a routine dental benefit for the Controlled Affiliate s regional Medicare Advantage PPO members enrolled under the Licensed Marks pursuant to such Controlled Affiliate License Agreement, provided, however, that the Dental Intermediary may not use the Licensed Marks or Name in contracting with the dental providers in such network l. contracting with a vision management organization ( Vision Intermediary ) to gain access to a national or regional vision network to deliver a routine vision benefit for the Controlled Affiliate s regional Medicare Advantage members enrolled under the Licensed Marks pursuant to such Controlled Affiliate License Agreement, provided, however, that the Vision Intermediary may not use the Licensed Marks or Name in contracting with the vision providers in such network m. contracting with an independent clinical laboratory for analysis and clinical assessment of specimens that are collected within the Controlled Affiliate s Region n. contracting with a durable medical equipment or home medical equipment company for durable medical equipment and supplies and home medical equipment and supplies that are shipped to a location within the Controlled Affiliate s Region o. contracting with a specialty pharmaceutical company for non-routine biological therapeutics that are ordered by a health care professional located within the Region p. contracting with a company that operates provider sites in the Region, provided that the contract is solely for services rendered at a site (e.g., hospital, mobile van) that is within the Region Controlled Affiliate License Agreements, provided that (1) the Controlled Affiliate may not contract directly with pharmacists or pharmacy stores outside the Region, and (2) neither the Controlled Affiliate s name nor the Licensed Marks or Name may be posted or otherwise displayed at or by any pharmacy store outside the Region Exhibit 10.12 documents that contain the Brands to, and file forms that contain the Brands with, state or local regulators in a state not included in its Service Area, provided that it gives reasonable advance notice to the local Plan of its intent to submit such documents or file such forms. Notwithstanding, in no event may a Plan or its licensed Controlled Affiliate use the Brands to register, or to obtain or maintain a license, a certificate of authority, or an equivalent document authorizing it to act as a risk-bearing entity or third party administrator in a state not included in its Service Area. If the local Plan advises BCBSA that it believes its License Agreement has been or would be violated by any submission or filing, BCBSA shall determine whether such submission or filing is required by state or local law or regulation and violates the License Agreement, subject to the Plan s or licensed Controlled Affiliate s rights to obtain an independent review of such determination under Paragraph 9(a) and Exhibit 5 of its License Agreement or Paragraph 8 of the Controlled Affiliate License. For purposes of this paragraph, local Plan is defined as each Plan whose Service Area includes all or part of the state in which the foregoing applicable state or local law or regulation has been enacted. Page 14 of 14 4. BCBSA shall retain the right to use the Licensed Marks in conjunction with the Federal Employee Program and with any other national offering made to federal employees pursuant to the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP), including the right to license such use to its vendors, but only in the following manner. 5. Where required by applicable state or local law or regulation, a Plan or its licensed Controlled Affiliate may submit q. contracting with a company that makes health care professionals available in the Region (e.g., traveling home health nurse), provided that the contract is solely for services rendered by health care professionals who are located within the Region. a. the Licensed Marks may only be used by BCBSA with the term Federal Employee Program , Federal , FEP , or similar language identifying the program as a benefit program for federal employees b. the Licensed Marks may not be used by BCBSA with the name(s) of a specific Plan or Plans and c. any use by BCBSA in conjunction with a new national FEHBP program proposed after the enactment of this amendment will require the approval of the BCBSA Board of Directors. Amended as of March 26, 2015 Exhibit 10.12 acknowledge that the Blue Cross and Blue Shield system is a unique nonprofit and for-profit system offering cost effective health care financing and services. The Plans and BCBSA desire to utilize Mediation and Mandatory Dispute Resolution ( MMDR ) to avoid expensive and time-consuming litigation that may otherwise occur in the federal and state judicial systems. Even MMDR should be viewed, however, as methods of last resort, all other procedures for dispute resolution having failed. Except as otherwise provided in the License Agreements, the Plans, their Controlled Affiliates and BCBSA agree to submit all disputes to MMDR pursuant to these Rules and in lieu of litigation. Page 1 of 23 MEDIATION AND MANDATORY DISPUTE RESOLUTION (MMDR) RULES 1. Initiation of Proceedings undertake good faith efforts with the other side(s) to try to resolve any dispute. Complaint to the BCBSA Corporate Secretary (which shall also constitute service on BCBSA if it is a respondent) and to any Plan(s) and or Controlled Affiliate(s) named therein. The Complaint shall contain: The Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans ("Plans") and the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association ("BCBSA") recognize and A. Pre-MMDR Efforts Before filing a Complaint to invoke the MMDR process, the CEO of a complaining party, or his her designated representative, shall B. Complaint To commence a proceeding, the complaining party (or parties) shall provide by certified mail, return receipt requested, a written i. identification of the complaining party (or parties) requesting the proceeding ii. identification of the respondent(s) iii. identification of any other persons or entities who are interested in a resolution of the dispute iv. a full statement describing the nature of the dispute v. identification of all of the issues that are being submitted for resolution Amended as of November 21, 1996 Exhibit 10.12 Page 2 of 23 The complaining party (or parties) shall file and serve with the Complaint copies of all documents which the party (or parties) intend(s) to offer at the Arbitration Hearing and a statement identifying the witnesses the party (or parties) intend(s) to present at the Hearing, along with a summary of each witness' expected testimony. The respondent(s) shall file and serve with the Answer or by the date of the Initial Conference set forth in Paragraph 3.C., below, copies of all documents which the respondent(s) intend(s) to offer at the Arbitration Hearing and a statement identifying the witnesses the party (or parties) intend(s) to present at the Hearing, along with a summary of each witness' expected testimony. Within twenty (20) days after receipt of the Complaint, each respondent shall serve on BCBSA and on the complaining party (or vi. the remedy sought vii. a statement as to whether the complaining party (or parties) elect(s) first to pursue Mediation viii. any request, if applicable, that the matter be handled on an expedited basis and the reasons therefor and ix. a statement signed by the CEO of the complaining party affirming that the CEO has undertaken efforts, or has directed efforts to be undertaken, to resolve the dispute before resorting to the MMDR process. i. a full Answer to the aforesaid Complaint ii. a statement of any Counterclaims against the complaining party (or parties), providing with respect thereto the information specified in Paragraph 1.B., above iii. a statement as to whether the respondent elects to first pursue Mediation and iv. any request, if applicable, that the matter be handled on an expedited basis and the reasons therefor. Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 has provided for Mediation under these Rules. Mediation may be pursued in lieu of or in an effort to obviate the Mandatory Dispute Resolution process, and all parties are strongly urged, but not required, to exhaust the mediation procedure provided for herein. In the event any party refuses to proceed with Mediation, the parties shall proceed immediately to Mandatory Dispute Resolution, as provided in Section 3. Page 3 of 23 responding party (or parties) a Reply to the Counterclaim. Such Reply must provide the same information required by Paragraph 1.C., above. 2. Mediation exceed three mediators and (ii) the selection of experienced mediator(s) from an independent entity to mediate all disputes set forth in the Complaint and Answer (and Counterclaim and Reply, if any). In the event the parties are unable to agree upon the selection or number of mediators, both within five (5) days of the service of the Answer or Reply to Counterclaim, whichever is later, the BCBSA Corporate Secretary shall immediately refer the matter to a nationally recognized professional ADR organization (such as CPR or JAMS) for mediation by a single mediator to be selected by the ADR organization. they wish to be bound by any recommendation of the selected mediator(s) for resolution of the disputes. If all wish to be bound, the Corporate Secretary will send appropriate documentation to them for their signatures before the Mediation Hearing begins. To facilitate the mediation of disputes between or among BCBSA, the Plans and or their Controlled Affiliates, the BCBSA Board D. Reply To Counterclaim Within ten (10) days after receipt of any Counterclaim, the complaining party (or parties) shall serve on BCBSA and on the A. Selection of Mediators If all parties agree to pursue Mediation, they shall promptly attempt to agree upon: (i) the number of mediators desired, not to B. Binding Decision Before the Mediation Hearing described below, the BCBSA Corporate Secretary shall contact the parties to determine whether Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 Page 4 of 23 with which they are affiliated) and shall promptly advise the parties of a scheduled Mediation Hearing date. Unless a party requests an expedited procedure, or unless all parties to the proceeding agree to one or more extensions of time, the Mediation Hearing set forth below shall be completed within forty (40) days of BCBSA's receipt of the Complaint. The selected mediator(s), unless the parties otherwise agree, shall adhere to the following procedure: C. Mediation Procedure The Mediator(s) shall apply the mediation procedures and processes provided for herein (not the rules of the ADR organization ii. Each party will be given one-half hour to present its case, beginning with the complaining party (or parties), followed by the other party or parties. The parties are free to structure their presentations as they see fit, using oral statements or direct examination of witnesses. However, neither cross-examination nor questioning of opposing representatives will be permitted. At the close of each presentation, the selected mediator(s) will be given an opportunity to ask questions of the presenters and witnesses. All parties must be present throughout the Mediation Hearing. The selected mediator(s) may extend the time allowed for each party's presentation at the Mediation Hearing. The selected mediator(s) may meet in executive session, outside the presence of the parties, or may meet with the parties separately, to discuss the controversy. iii. After the close of the presentations, the parties will attempt to negotiate a settlement of the dispute. If the parties desire, the selected mediators, or any one or more of the selected mediator(s), will sit in on the negotiations. i. Each party must be represented by its CEO or other representative who has been delegated full authority to resolve the dispute. However, parties may send additional representatives as they see fit. Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 determined by the selected mediator(s), or if the Mediation does not result in a final resolution of all disputes at the Mediation Hearing or within ten (10) days after the Mediation Hearing, any party or any one of the selected mediator(s) shall so notify the BCBSA Corporate Secretary, who shall promptly issue a Notice of Termination of Mediation to all parties, to the selected mediator(s), and to the MDR Administrator. Such notice shall serve to bring the Mediation to an end and to initiate Mandatory Dispute Resolution. Upon agreement of all parties and the mediator(s), the Mediation process may continue at the same time the MDR process is invoked. In such case, the Notice of Termination of Mediation described above serves to initiate the MDR proceeding, but does not terminate mediation proceedings, which may proceed simultaneous with the MDR proceeding. Page 5 of 23 If the Mediation cannot be completed within the prescribed or agreed time period due to the lack of cooperation of any party, as D. Notice of Termination of Mediation v. The purpose of the Mediation Hearing is to assist the parties to settle their grievances short of mandatory dispute resolution. As a result, the Mediation Hearing has been designed to be as informal as possible. Rules of evidence shall not apply. There will be no transcript of the proceedings, and no party may make a tape recording of the Mediation Hearing. vi. In order to facilitate a free and open discussion, the Mediation proceeding shall remain confidential. A "Stipulation to Confidentiality" which prohibits future use of settlement offers, all position papers or other statements furnished to the selected mediator(s), and decisions or recommendations in any Mediation proceeding shall be executed by each party. vii. Upon request of the selected mediator(s), or one of the parties, BCBSA staff may also submit documentation at any iv. After the close of the presentations, the selected mediator(s) may meet privately to agree upon a recommendation for resolution of the dispute which would be submitted to the parties for their consideration and approval. If the parties have previously agreed to be bound by the results of this procedure, this recommendation shall be binding upon the parties. time during the proceedings. Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 Page 6 of 23 3. Mandatory Dispute Resolution (MDR) above, then the unresolved disputes set forth in any Complaint and Answer (and Counterclaim and Reply, if any) shall be subject to mandatory binding arbitration (herein referred to as MDR ). JAMS, specializing in alternative dispute resolution. In the event the parties pursued Mediation with CPR, JAMS or a similar organization, that organization also shall serve as the MDR Administrator, unless all parties notify the BCBSA Corporate Secretary in writing within two (2) days of receiving the Notice of Termination of Mediation that they wish to pursue MDR with another nationally recognized organization serving as MDR Administrator. that offers a panel of arbitrators, or (iii) all parties that pursued Mediation notified the BCBSA Corporate Secretary that they wish to have an MDR Administrator that is different from the organization with which their mediator was affiliated, they shall promptly attempt to agree on a nationally recognized ADR entity that supplies a panel of arbitrators. If they reach such agreement within five (5) days of the Notice of Termination of Mediation or receipt of the Answer or Reply to Counterclaim (whichever is later), the parties shall promptly inform the BCBSA Corporate Secretary of their agreed upon ADR organization. In the event the parties are unable to reach agreement on an MDR Administrator within that timeframe, the BCBSA Corporate Secretary shall immediately refer the matter to CPR, JAMS or a similar organization for MDR. the MDR Administrator organization shall not apply. If any party elects not to first pursue Mediation, or if a Notice of Termination of Mediation is issued as set forth in Paragraph 2.D., A. MDR Administrator The Administrator for purposes of Mandatory Arbitration shall be an independent nationally recognized entity such as CPR or In the event the parties (i) did not pursue Mediation, (ii) pursued mediation with a Mediator not affiliated with an ADR organization Any person who served as a Mediator shall not serve as an arbitrator for the same or similar dispute for purposes of MDR. B. Rules for MDR The rules controlling all aspects of MDR shall be exclusively those provided for herein. The rules promulgated or otherwise used by Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 to strike any designee for cause and the Administrator shall determine the sufficiency thereof in its sole discretion. The Administrator will designate a replacement for any designee so stricken. Each party shall then be permitted one peremptory strike from the list of designees. The Administrator shall set the dates for exercising all strikes, which shall be set to encourage the prompt selection of arbitrators. Page 7 of 23 Administrator, or within five (5) days after the time for filing and serving the Answer or Reply to any Counterclaim (whichever is later) if the parties elect first not to mediate, the parties shall confer with the Administrator to discuss selecting a dispute resolution panel ("the Panel"). This conference (the Initial Conference ) may be by telephone. The parties are encouraged to agree to the composition of the Panel and to present that agreement to the Administrator at the Initial Conference. If the parties do not agree on the composition of the Panel by the time of the Initial Conference, or by any extension thereof agreed to by all parties and the Administrator, then the Panel Selection Process set forth in subparagraph D, below, shall be followed. parties shall each rank the remaining panel members in order of preference and provide the Administrator, without serving on any other party, their ranked list. The Administrator shall not disclose any party s ranked list to members of the panel or to other parties. preferences provided by the parties on their ranked lists, the Administrator shall select a three member Panel. The Panel Selection Process shall be completed no later than ten (10) days after the Initial Conference. hourly rate to be promptly fixed by the Administrator for all time spent in connection with the proceedings and shall be reimbursed for any travel and other reasonable expenses. The Administrator shall designate, prior to the Initial Conference, at least seven potential arbitrators. Each party shall be permitted C. Initial Conference Within seven (7) days after a Notice of Termination has issued, or the matter has otherwise been referred to an MDR D. Panel Selection Process After the parties exercise any designee strikes for cause and their peremptory strike against any designee of their choice, the From the remaining designees, and after considering opportunities to maximize, so far as possible, the collectively stated arbitrator Each Arbitrator shall be compensated at his or her normal hourly rate or, in the absence of an established rate, at a reasonable Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 modify any ruling or other action of said Presiding Arbitrator. Each Arbitrator shall be an independent Arbitrator, shall be governed by the Code of Ethics for Arbitrators in Commercial Disputes, and shall at or prior to the commencement of any Arbitration Hearing take an oath to that effect. Each Arbitrator shall promptly disclose in writing to the Panel and to the parties any circumstances, whenever arising, that might cause doubt as to such Arbitrator's compliance, or ability to comply, with said Code of Ethics, and, absent resignation by such Arbitrator, the remaining Arbitrators shall determine in their sole discretion whether the circumstances so disclosed constitute grounds for disqualification and for replacement. With respect to such circumstances arising or coming to the attention of a party after an Arbitrator's selection, a party may likewise request the Arbitrator's resignation or a determination as to disqualification by the remaining Arbitrators. With respect to a sole Arbitrator, the determination as to disqualification shall be made by the Administrator. BCBSA, except for those disputes excepted from these MMDR procedures as set forth in the License Agreements. resolve the parties' disputes, including monetary awards and injunctions, mandatory or prohibitory. The Panel has no authority to award punitive or treble damages except that the Panel may allocate or assess responsibility for punitive or treble damages assessed by another tribunal. Subject to the above limitations, the Panel may, by way of example, but not of limitation: Page 8 of 23 The Panel shall promptly designate a Presiding Arbitrator for the purposes reflected below, but shall retain the power to review and The Panel's jurisdiction and authority shall extend to all disputes between or among the Plans, their Controlled Affiliates, and or With the exception of punitive or treble damages, the Panel shall have full authority to award the relief it deems appropriate to E. Duties Of The Arbitrators There shall be no ex parte communication between the parties or their counsel and any member of the Panel. F. Panel's Jurisdiction And Authority Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 Page 9 of 23 extent legally possible the continued integrity of the Licensed Marks and the BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD system. The Panel shall apply federal law to all issues which, if asserted in the United States District Court, would give rise to federal question jurisdiction, 28 U.S.C. 1331. The Panel shall apply Illinois law to all issues involving interpretation, performance or construction of any License Agreement or Controlled Affiliate License Agreement unless the agreement otherwise provides. As to other issues, the Panel shall choose the applicable law based on conflicts of law principles of the State of Illinois. Panel and shall schedule, in writing, a conference in which the parties and the Panel shall participate (the Administrative Conference ). The Administrative Conference shall take place no later than fifteen (15) days after the Panel is selected. At the Administrative Conference the parties and the Panel shall discuss the scheduling of the Arbitration Hearing and any other matter appropriate to be considered, including but not limited to: any written discovery in the form of requests for production of documents or requests to admit facts the identity of any witness whose deposition a party may desire and a showing of exceptional good cause for the taking It is understood that the Panel is expected to resolve issues based on governing principles of law, preserving to the maximum G. Administrative Conference Within five (5) days of the Panel being selected, the Presiding Arbitrator shall confer with the parties and the other members of the i. interpret or construe the meaning of any terms, phrase or provision in any license between BCBSA and a Plan or a Controlled Affiliate relating to the use of the BLUE CROSS or BLUE SHIELD service marks. ii. determine whether BCBSA, a Plan or a Controlled Affiliate has violated the terms or conditions of any license between the BCBSA and a Plan or a Controlled Affiliate relating to the use of the BLUE CROSS or BLUE SHIELD service marks. iii. decide challenges as to its own jurisdiction. iv. issue such orders for interim relief as it deems appropriate pending Hearing and Award in any Arbitration. Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 Page 10 of 23 of any such deposition the desirability of bifurcation or other separation of the issues the need for and the type of record of conferences and hearings, including the need for transcripts the need for expert witnesses and how expert testimony should be presented the appropriateness of motions to dismiss and or for full or partial summary judgment consideration of stipulations the desirability of presenting any direct testimony in writing and the necessity for any on-site inspection by the Panel. If the parties agree, the Administrative Conference may be by telephone. H. Discovery i. Requests for Production of Documents: All requests for the production of documents must be served no later than five (5) days after the date of the Initial Conference. Within twenty (20) days after receipt of a request for production of documents, a party shall (a) serve responses and objections to the request, (b) produce all responsive, non-privileged documents to the ii. Requests for Admissions: Requests for Admissions may be served up to twenty-one (21) days prior to the discovery cut-off set by the Presiding Arbitrator. A party served with Requests For Admissions must respond within twenty (20) days of receipt of said request. The good faith use of and response to Requests for Admissions is encouraged, and the Panel shall have full discretion, with reference to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, in awarding appropriate sanctions with respect to abuse of the procedure. requesting party, and (c) to the extent any responsive documents are withheld on the grounds of attorney-client privilege or work product, produce a log identifying such documents in the manner specified in Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(5). If, after reviewing a privilege log, the requesting party believes attorney-client privilege or work product protection was improperly claimed by the producing party with respect to any document, the requesting party may ask the Presiding Arbitrator to conduct an in-camera inspection of the same. With respect to documentary and other discovery produced in any MDR proceeding by BCBSA, the fact that a party s CEO or other senior officers may serve on the BCBSA Board of Directors, BCBSA Board Committees or other BCBSA work groups, task forces and the like, shall not be a basis for defeating an otherwise valid claim of attorney-client privilege or work product protection over such documentary or other discovery materials by BCBSA. Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 1 As used in these Rules, "de bene esse deposition" means a deposition that is not taken for discovery purposes, but is taken for the purpose of reading part or all of the deposition transcript into the record at the Arbitration Hearing, to the extent permitted by the Panel, because the witness cannot be compelled to testify at the Arbitration Hearing or has exercised a right provided under these Rules to provide deposition testimony in lieu of testimony at the Arbitration Hearing. Page 11 of 23 iv. Expert witness(es): If a party intends to present the testimony of an expert witness during the oral hearing, it shall provide all other parties with a written statement setting forth the information required to be provided by Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(a)(2)(B) ten (10) days prior to the discovery cut-off set by the Presiding Arbitrator. If a party intends to present the testimony of a rebuttal expert witness during the Arbitration Hearing, it shall provide all other parties with a written statement setting forth the information required to be provided by Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(a)(2)(B) within twenty (20) days after the date on which the written statement of the expert witness whose testimony is to be rebutted was produced. iii. Depositions: As a general rule, the parties will not be permitted to take party or non-party deposition testimony for v. Discovery cut-off: The Presiding Arbitrator shall determine the date on which the discovery period will end, but the discovery period shall not exceed thirty (30) days from the date of the Administrative Conference without the agreement of all parties. discovery purposes. The Presiding Arbitrator, in his or her sole discretion, shall have the authority to permit a party to take such deposition testimony upon a showing of exceptional good cause. The parties will be permitted to take de bene esse deposition1 testimony to the fullest extent permitted by law of any witness who cannot be compelled to testify at the Arbitration Hearing. No deposition, for discovery purposes or otherwise, shall exceed three (3) hours, excluding objections and colloquy of counsel. Depositions may be recorded in any manner recognized by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and the parties shall specify in each notice of deposition or request for permission to take deposition testimony the manner in which such deposition shall be recorded. Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 EXHIBIT 5 Page 12 of 23 explore settlement and that they do so at or before the conclusion of the Arbitration Hearing, and the Panel shall give such assistance in settlement negotiations as the parties may request and the Panel may deem appropriate. Alternatively, the Panel may direct the parties to endeavor to mediate their disputes as provided above, or to explore a mini-trial proceeding, or to have an independent party render a neutral evaluation of the parties respective positions. The Panel shall enter such sanctions as it deems appropriate with respect to any party failing to pursue in good faith such Mediation or other alternate dispute resolution methods. I. Panel Suggested Settlement Mediation At any point during the proceedings, the Panel at the request of any party or on its own initiative, may suggest that the parties vi. Additional discovery: Any additional discovery will be at the discretion of the Presiding Arbitrator. vii. Discovery Disputes: Any discovery disputes shall be raised by motion to the Presiding Arbitrator, who is authorized viii. Extensions: The time for responding to discovery requests may be extended by the Presiding Arbitrator for good and to resolve all such disputes, and whose resolution will be binding on the parties unless modified by the Arbitration Panel. Prior to raising any discovery dispute with the Presiding Arbitrator, the parties shall meet and confer, telephonically or in person, in an attempt to resolve or narrow the dispute. If a party refuses to comply with a decision resolving a discovery dispute, the Panel, in keeping with Fed. R. Civ. P. 37, may refuse to allow that party to support or oppose designated claims or defenses, prohibit that party from introducing designated matters into evidence or, in extreme cases, decide an issue submitted for resolution adversely to that party. sufficient cause shown. Any request for such an extension shall be made in writing. Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 may request the issuance of a subpoena on any third party, including but not limited to any third party Blue Plan or any officer, employee or director of a third party Blue Plan, to compel deposition testimony or the production of documents, and, if good and sufficient cause is shown, the Panel shall issue such a subpoena. thirty (30) days after the close of discovery, unless all parties and the Panel agree to extend the Arbitration Hearing date, or unless the parties agree in writing to waive the Arbitration Hearing. The parties may mutually agree on the location of the Arbitration Hearing. If the parties fail to agree, the Arbitration Hearing shall be held in Chicago, Illinois, or at such other location determined by the Presiding Arbitrator to be most convenient to the participants. The Panel will determine the date(s) and time(s) of the Arbitration Hearing(s) after consultation with all parties and shall provide reasonable notice thereof to all parties or their representatives. Page 13 of 23 Arbitration Hearing Memorandum which sets forth the applicable law and any argument as to any relevant issue. The Arbitration Hearing Memorandum will supplement, and not repeat, the allegations, information and documents contained in or with the Complaint, Answer, Counterclaim and Reply, if any. Ten (10) days prior to the Arbitration Hearing, each party shall submit to each other party a list of all expert and fact witnesses (but not including rebuttal fact witness) that such party intends to have testify at the Arbitration Hearing and a brief summary of the testimony each such witness is expected to give. In addition, no later than five (5) days prior to the Arbitration, each party may submit to each other party and to the Panel a Response Arbitration Hearing Memorandum which sets forth any response to another party's Arbitration Hearing Memorandum. Pursuant to, and consistent with, the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. 9 et seq., and subject to Paragraph 3.G(iii) above, a party An Arbitration Hearing will be held within thirty (30) days after the Administrative Conference if no discovery is taken, or within J. Subpoenas on Third Parties K. Arbitration Hearing L. Arbitration Hearing Memoranda Twenty (20) days prior to the Arbitration Hearing, each party shall submit to the other party (or parties) and to the Panel an Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 attendance at the Arbitration Hearing of any officer, employee or director of the other party (or parties) for the purpose of providing noncumulative testimony. If a party fails to produce one of its officers, employees or directors whose noncumulative testimony during the Arbitration Hearing is reasonably requested by an adverse party, the Panel may refuse to allow that party to support or oppose designated claims or defenses, prohibit that party from introducing designated matters into evidence or, in extreme cases, decide an issue submitted for mandatory dispute resolution adversely to that party provided, however, that a party may refuse to produce a director to testify if, within two (2) days of receiving a notice requesting the attendance of such director at the Arbitration Hearing, the party agrees to make the director available for a de bene esse deposition at a mutually convenient time at any location within fifty (50) miles of the director s primary residence chosen by the party requesting the director s testimony. This Rule may not be used for the purpose of burdening or harassing any party, and the Presiding Arbitrator may impose such orders as are appropriate so as to prevent or remedy any such burden or harassment. Page 14 of 23 Hearing, a party may request the issuance of a subpoena on any third party, including but not limited to any third party Blue Plan, BCBSA or any officer, employee or director of a third party Blue Plan or BCBSA for the purpose of providing noncumulative testimony at the Arbitration Hearing, and, if good and sufficient cause is shown, the Panel shall issue such a subpoena provided however, that a director of a third party Blue Plan or BCBSA may refuse to testify if, within two (2) days of receiving a subpoena requesting the attendance of such director at the Arbitration Hearing, the director agrees to make him herself available for a de bene esse deposition at a mutually convenient time at any location within fifty (50) miles of the director s primary residence chosen by the party requesting the director s testimony. Each Blue Plan agrees to waive, on its own behalf and on behalf of its directors and officers, any objection it otherwise might have to any such subpoena based on service, venue or extraterritoriality. Ten (10) days prior to the Arbitration Hearing, any party may serve a Notice on any other party (or parties) requesting the M. Notice For Testimony Pursuant to, and consistent with, the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. 9 et seq., twenty (20) days or more prior to the Arbitration Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 Page 15 of 23 N. Arbitration Hearing Procedures iii. Stenographic Record: Any party, or if the parties do not object, the Panel, may request that a stenographic or other iv. Oaths: The Panel may require witnesses to testify under oath or affirmation administered by any duly qualified person and, if requested by any party, shall do so. v. Order of Arbitration Hearing: An Arbitration Hearing shall be opened by the recording of the date, time, and place of the Arbitration Hearing, and the presence of the Panel, the parties, and their representatives, if any. The Panel may, at the beginning of the Arbitration Hearing, ask for statements clarifying the issues involved. i. Attendance at Arbitration Hearing: Any person having a direct interest in the proceeding is entitled to attend the Arbitration Hearing. The Presiding Arbitrator shall otherwise have the power to require the exclusion of any witness, other than a party or other essential person, during the testimony of any other witness. It shall be discretionary with the Presiding Arbitrator to determine the propriety of the attendance of any other person. ii. Confidentiality: The Panel and all parties shall maintain the privacy of the Arbitration Proceeding. The parties and the Panel shall treat the Arbitration Hearing and any discovery or other proceedings or events related thereto, including any award resulting therefrom, as confidential except as otherwise necessary in connection with a judicial challenge to or enforcement of an award or unless otherwise required by law. record be made of any Arbitration Hearing or portion thereof. The costs of the recording and or of preparing the transcript shall be borne by the requesting party and by any party who receives a copy thereof. If the Panel requests a recording and or a transcript, the costs thereof shall be borne equally by the parties. Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 Page 16 of 23 vi. Evidence: The parties may offer such evidence as is relevant and material to the dispute and shall produce such evidence as the Panel may deem necessary to an understanding and resolution of the dispute. Unless good cause is shown, as determined by the Panel or agreed to by all other parties, no party shall be permitted to offer evidence at the Arbitration Hearing which was not disclosed prior to the Arbitration Hearing by that party. The Panel may receive and consider the evidence of witnesses by affidavit upon such terms as the Panel deems appropriate. The Panel has the discretion to vary these procedures, but shall afford a full and equal opportunity to all parties for the presentation of any material and relevant evidence. The Panel shall be the judge of the relevance and materiality of the evidence offered, and conformity to legal rules of evidence, other than enforcement of the attorney-client privilege and the work product protection, shall not be necessary. The Federal Rules of Evidence shall be considered by the Panel in conducting the Arbitration Hearing but those rules shall not be controlling. All evidence shall be taken in the presence of the Panel and all of the parties, except where any party is in default or has waived the right to be present. Unless otherwise agreed, the complaining party (or parties) shall then present evidence to support their claim(s). The respondent(s) shall then present evidence supporting their defenses and Counterclaims, if any. The complaining party (or parties) shall then present evidence supporting defenses to the Counterclaims, if any, and rebuttal. Witnesses for each party shall submit to questions by adverse parties and or the Panel. Settlement offers by any party in connection with Mediation or MDR proceedings, decisions or recommendations of the selected mediators, and a party's position papers or statements furnished to the selected mediators shall not be admissible evidence or considered by the Panel without the consent of all parties. Exhibit 10.12 Page 17 of 23 law, no later than thirty (30) days from the date of closing the Arbitration Hearing. If all parties so request, the Award shall contain findings of fact and conclusions of law. The Award, and all other rulings and determinations by the Panel, may be by a majority vote. or its representative at its last known address or personal service of the Award on a party or its representative. used or cited as precedent in any other proceeding. An Award must be in writing and shall be made promptly by the Panel and, unless otherwise agreed by the parties or specified by Parties shall accept as legal delivery of the Award the placing of the Award or a true copy thereof in the mail addressed to a party Awards are binding only on the parties to the Arbitration and are not binding on any non-parties to the Arbitration and may not be vii. Closing of Arbitration Hearing: The Presiding Arbitrator shall specifically inquire of all parties whether they have any further proofs to offer or witnesses to be heard. Upon receiving negative replies or if he or she is satisfied that the record is complete, the Presiding Arbitrator shall declare the Arbitration Hearing closed with an appropriate notation made on the record. Subject to being reopened as provided below, the time within which the Panel is required to make the award shall commence to run, in the absence of contrary agreement by the parties, upon the closing of the Arbitration Hearing. With respect to complex disputes, the Panel may, in its sole discretion, defer the closing of the Arbitration Hearing for a period of up to thirty (30) days after the presentation of proofs in order to permit the parties to submit post-hearing briefs and argument, as the Panel deems appropriate, prior to making an award. For good cause, the Arbitration Hearing may be reopened for up to thirty (30) days on the Panel's initiative, or upon application of a party, at any time before the award is made Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 Page 18 of 23 parties, and the parties shall undertake to carry out the Award without delay. Act. 9 U.S.C. 1, et seq. Panel shall return any documents produced by any other party, including all copies thereof. If a party receives a discovery request in any other proceeding which would require it to produce any documents produced to it by any other party in a proceeding hereunder, it shall not produce such documents without first notifying the producing party and giving said party reasonable time to respond, if appropriate, to the discovery request. 4. Miscellaneous the selected Mediators, and to all other parties at any time. The Chairman of the Mediation Committee, or at his or her direction, the then selected Mediators, shall grant any request which is supported by good and sufficient reasons. If such a request is granted, the Mediation shall be completed within as short a period as practicable, as determined by the Chairman of the Mediation Committee or, at his or her direction, the then selected Mediators. parties at any time. The Administrator, or the Presiding Arbitrator if the Panel has been selected, shall grant any such request which is supported by good and sufficient reasons. If such a request is granted, the Arbitration shall be completed within as short a time as practicable, as determined by the Administrator and or the Presiding Arbitrator. After the expiration of twenty (20) days from initial delivery, the Award (with corrections, if any) shall be final and binding on the Proceedings to confirm, modify or vacate an Award shall be conducted in conformity with and controlled by the Federal Arbitration P. Return of Documents Within sixty (60) days after the Award and the conclusion of any judicial proceedings with respect thereto, each party and the A. Expedited Procedures Any party to a Mediation may direct a request for an expedited Mediation Hearing to the Chairman of the Mediation Committee, to Any party to an Arbitration may direct a request for expedited proceedings to the Administrator, to the Panel, and to all other Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 Page 19 of 23 sought prior to the time that an Arbitration Panel has been selected, then the Administrator shall select a single Arbitrator who is a lawyer who has no interest in the subject matter of the dispute, and no connection to any of the parties, to hear and determine the request for temporary or preliminary injunction. If such relief is sought after the time that an Arbitration Panel has been selected, then the Arbitration Panel will hear and determine the request. The request for temporary or preliminary injunctive relief will be determined with reference to the temporary or preliminary injunction standards set forth in Fed. R. Civ. P. 65. time for compliance and, if the party does not comply within said period, the Panel may enter an Order of default or afford such other relief as it deems appropriate. Arbitration may proceed in the event of a default or in the absence of any party who, after due notice, fails to be present or fails to obtain an extension. An Award shall not be made solely on the default or absence of a party, but the Panel shall require the party who is present to submit such evidence as the Panel may require for the making of findings, determinations, conclusions, and Awards. continuation of a proceeding under these rules or for any court action in connection therewith may be served on a party by mail addressed to the party or its representative at its last known address or by personal service, in or outside the state where the MDR proceeding is to be held. communication to give the notices required by these rules. B. Temporary or Preliminary Injunctive Relief Any party may seek temporary or preliminary injunctive relief with the filing of a Complaint or at any time thereafter. If such relief is C. Defaults and Proceedings in the Absence of a Party Whenever a party fails to comply with the MDR Rules in a manner deemed material by the Panel, the Panel shall fix a reasonable Each party shall be deemed to have consented that any papers, notices, or process necessary or proper for the initiation or The Corporate Secretary and the parties may also use facsimile transmission, telex, telegram, or other written forms of electronic Exhibit 10.12 Page 20 of 23 MDR proceeding, including compensation, required travel and other reasonable expenses of the Panel, and the cost of any proof produced at the direct request of the Panel, shall be borne equally by the parties and shall be paid periodically on a timely basis, unless they agree otherwise or unless the Panel in the Award assesses such expenses, or any part thereof against any party (or parties). In exceptional cases, the Panel may award reasonable attorneys' fees as an item of expense, and the Panel shall promptly determine the amount of such fees based on affidavits or such other proofs as the Panel deems sufficient. unable to perform or discharge his or her duties after the commencement of MDR but prior to the rendition of an Award, and the parties are unable to agree upon a replacement, the remaining Panel member(s): the parties may agree, as an alternative to the recommencement of the Mandatory Dispute Resolution process, to resolution of the dispute by the remaining Panel members. her duties after the commencement of MDR but prior to the rendition of an Award, and the parties are unable to agree upon a replacement, the Administrator shall appoint a successor, subject to the right of any party to challenge such successor for cause, and the successor shall decide the extent to which previously held proceedings shall be repeated. E. Expenses The expenses of witnesses shall be paid by the party causing or requesting the appearance of such witnesses. All expenses of the F. Disqualification or Disability of A Panel Member In the event that any Arbitrator of a Panel with more than one Arbitrator should become disqualified, resign, die, or refuse or be If the remaining Panel members consider the proceedings to have progressed to a stage as to make replacement impracticable, In the event that a single Arbitrator should become disqualified, resign, die, or refuse or be unable to perform or discharge his or i. shall designate a replacement, subject to the right of any party to challenge such replacement for cause. ii. shall decide the extent to which previously held hearings shall be repeated. Exhibit 10.12 Page 21 of 23 parties and approval of: (1) the Mediator if the proceeding is then in Mediation (2) the Administrator if the proceeding is in Arbitration, but no Arbitration Panel has been selected or (3) the Arbitration Panel, if the proceeding is in Arbitration and the Arbitration Panel has been selected. the right to move to intervene in any pending Arbitration. A written motion for intervention shall be made to: (1) the Administrator, if the proceeding is in Arbitration, but no Arbitration Panel has been selected or (2) the Arbitration Panel, if the proceeding is in Arbitration and the Arbitration Panel has been selected. The written motion for intervention shall be delivered to the BCBSA Corporate Secretary (which shall also constitute service on the BCBSA if it is a respondent) and to any Plan(s) and or Controlled Affiliate(s) which are parties to the proceeding. Any party to the proceeding can submit written objections to the motion to intervene. The motion for intervention shall be granted upon good cause shown. Intervention also may be allowed by stipulation of the parties to the Arbitration proceeding. Intervention shall be allowed upon such terms as the Arbitration Panel decides. another Plan. positions. G. Extensions of Time Subject to the provisions of Paragraph 3.H.(viii), any time limit set forth in these Rules may be extended upon agreement of the H. Intervention The Plans, their Controlled Affiliates, and BCBSA, to the extent subject to MMDR pursuant to their License Agreements, shall have I. BCBSA Assistance In Resolution of Disputes The resources and personnel of the BCBSA may be requested by any member Plan at any time to try to resolve disputes with J. Neutral Evaluation The parties can voluntarily agree at any time to have an independent party render a neutral evaluation of the parties respective Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 Page 22 of 23 K. Recovery of Attorney Fees and Expenses Nothwithstanding any other provisions of these Rules, any Party subject to the License Agreements (for purposes of this Section K and all of its sub- sections only hereinafter referred to collectively and individually as a Party ) that initiates a court action or administrative proceeding solely to compel adherence to these Rules shall not be determined to have violated these Rules by initiating such action or proceeding. The Arbitration Panel may, in its sole discretion, award a Party its reasonable attorneys fees, expenses and costs associated with a filing to compel adherence to these Rules and or reasonable attorneys fees, expenses and costs incurred in responding to an action filed in violation of these Rules provided, however, that neither fees, expenses, nor costs shall be awarded by the Arbitration Panel if the Party from which the award is sought can demonstrate to the Arbitration panel, in its sole discretion, that it did not violate these Rules or that it had reasonable grounds for believing that its action did not violate these Rules. For purposes of this Section K, any Party may request reimbursement of fees, expenses and or costs by submitting said request in writing to the Arbitration Panel at any time before an award is delivered pursuant to Paragraph 3.O above, with a copy to the Party from which reimbursement is sought, explaining why it is entitled to such reimbursement. The Party from which reimbursement is sought shall have twenty (20) days to submit a response to such request to the Arbitration Panel with a copy to the Party seeking reimbursement. i. Motions to Compel i Recovery of Fees, Expenses and Costs ii Requests for Reimbursement Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of the period so computed shall be included, unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of the aforementioned days. When the period of time prescribed is less than six (6) days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation. As used in this rule, legal holiday includes New Year s Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Washington s Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and any other day appointed as a holiday by the President or the Congress of the United States. Page 23 of 23 L. Calculation of Time and Deadlines In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed under these rules, the day of the act or event from which the designated Amended as of September 20, 2007 Exhibit 10.12 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY Legal Name Domestic Jurisdiction Doing Business As American Imaging Management, Inc. Illinois AIM Specialty Health America's 1st Choice of South Carolina, Inc. South Carolina America's Health Management Services, Inc. South Carolina AMERIGROUP Community Care of New Mexico, Inc. New Mexico AMERIGROUP Corporation Delaware Amerigroup Delaware, Inc. Delaware Amerigroup District of Columbia, Inc. District of Columbia Amerigroup Health Plan of Louisiana, Inc. Louisiana Amerigroup Insurance Company Texas Amerigroup Iowa, Inc. Iowa Amerigroup IPA of New York, LLC New York Amerigroup Kansas, Inc. Kansas AMERIGROUP Maryland, Inc. Maryland AMERIGROUP Community Care Amerigroup Mississippi, Inc. Mississippi AMERIGROUP New Jersey, Inc. New Jersey AMERIGROUP Community Care AMERIGROUP Ohio, Inc. Ohio AMERIGROUP Community Care Amerigroup Oklahoma Inc. Oklahoma Amerigroup Partnership Plan, LLC Illinois Amerigroup Pennsylvania, Inc. Pennsylvania AMERIGROUP Tennessee, Inc. Tennessee AMERIGROUP Community Care AMERIGROUP Texas, Inc. Texas AMERIGROUP Community Care AMERIGROUP Washington, Inc. Washington AMGP Georgia Managed Care Company, Inc. Georgia Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company California Anthem Financial, Inc. Delaware Anthem Health Plans of Kentucky, Inc. Kentucky Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Anthem Health Plans of Maine, Inc. Maine Anthem Health Plans of New Hampshire, Inc. New Hampshire Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Anthem Health Plans of Virginia, Inc. Virginia Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Anthem Health Plans, Inc. Connecticut Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Anthem Holding Corp. Indiana Anthem Properties, Inc. Anthem Innovation Israel, Ltd. Israel Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc. Indiana Anthem Kentucky Managed Care Plan, Inc. Kentucky Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Medicaid Anthem Life & Disability Insurance Company New York AMERIGROUP CORPORATION AGP Corporation AMGP AMGP Corporation AMGP Missouri Amerigroup AMERIGROUP AMERIGROUP Community Care AMERIGROUP Georgia AMGP Georgia Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Associated Hospital Service Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Indiana Empire Blue Cross-Retiree Solutions Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield-Retiree Solutions Anthem BC Health Insurance Company Exhibit 21 Anthem Life Insurance Company Indiana Anthem Partnership Holding Company, LLC Indiana Anthem Services Company, LLC Indiana Anthem Southeast, Inc. Indiana Anthem UM Services, Inc. Indiana Anthem Workers' Compensation, LLC Indiana Applied Pathways LLC Illinois Arcus Enterprises, Inc. Delaware Aspire Health, Inc. Delaware Associated Group, Inc. Indiana ATH Holding Company, LLC Indiana Blue Cross Blue Shield Healthcare Plan of Georgia, Inc. Georgia Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Blue Cross Blue Shield of Wisconsin Wisconsin Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Blue Cross of California California Anthem Blue Cross Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc. California Anthem Blue Cross Partnership Plan CareMarket, Inc. Indiana Sydney Care CareMore Health Plan California CareMore Health Plan of Arizona, Inc. Arizona CareMore Health Plan of Nevada Nevada CareMore Health Plan of Texas, Inc. Texas CareMore Health System California CareMore, LLC Indiana Cerulean Companies, Inc. Georgia Claim Management Services, Inc. Wisconsin Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Community Care Health Plan of Louisiana, Inc. Louisiana Healthy Blue Community Care Health Plan of Nevada, Inc. Nevada Community Insurance Company Ohio Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Compcare Health Services Insurance Corporation Wisconsin Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Crossroads Acquisition Corp. Delaware DBG Holdings, Inc. Indiana DeCare Analytics, LLC Minnesota DeCare Dental Health International, LLC Minnesota DeCare Dental Insurance Ireland, Ltd. Ireland DeCare Dental Networks, LLC Minnesota DeCare Dental, LLC Minnesota DeCare Operations Ireland, Limited Ireland Delivery Network, LLC Florida Designated Agent Company, Inc. Kentucky EasyScripts Cutler Bay, LLC Florida EasyScripts Hialeah, LLC Florida EasyScripts Westchester, LLC Florida EasyScripts, LLC Florida Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Healthcare Solutions AMERIGROUP Community Care Exhibit 21 EHC Benefits Agency, Inc. New York Empire HealthChoice Assurance, Inc. New York Empire Blue Cross Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield Empire HealthChoice HMO, Inc. New York Federal Government Solutions, LLC Wisconsin Freedom Health, Inc. Florida Global TPA, LLC Florida Golden West Health Plan, Inc. California Greater Georgia Life Insurance Company Georgia Anthem Life Health Core, Inc. Delaware Health Management Corporation Virginia Health Ventures Partner, L.L.C. Illinois HealthKeepers, Inc. Virginia HealthLink HMO, Inc. Missouri HealthLink HMO HealthLink Insurance Company Illinois HealthLink, Inc. Illinois HealthPlus HP, LLC New York HealthSun Health Plans, Inc. Florida HealthSun Holdings, LLC Florida HealthSun Management, LLC Florida HealthSun Physicians Network I, LLC Florida HealthSun Physicians Network, LLC Florida Healthy Alliance Life Insurance Company Missouri Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield HEP AP Holdings, Inc. Delaware Highland Acquisition Holdings, LLC Delaware Highland Holdco, Inc. Delaware Highland Intermediate Holdings, LLC Delaware Highland Investor Holdings, LLC Delaware HMO Colorado, Inc. Colorado HMO Colorado HMO Nevada HMO Missouri, Inc. Missouri Imaging Management Holdings, LLC Delaware IngenioRx, Inc. Indiana Ingenio, Inc. IngenioRx Administrators Legato Health Technologies, LLP India Legato Health Technologies Philippines, Inc. Philippines Legato Holdings I, Inc. Indiana Legato Holdings II, LLC Indiana Living Complete Technologies, Inc. Maryland TAI Software, Inc. Matthew Thornton Health Plan, Inc. New Hampshire Memphis Supportive Care Partnership, LLC Tennessee Meridian Resource Company, LLC Wisconsin Missouri Care, Incorporated Missouri Nash Holding Company, LLC Delaware Empire Blue Cross HMO Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield HMO LiveHealth Online HMC of Virginia Health Management of Virginia Empire BlueCross BlueShield HealthPlus Empire BlueCross HealthPlus Amerigroup Missouri Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Exhibit 21 National Government Services, Inc. Indiana NGS of Indiana New England Research Institutes, Inc. Massachusetts Summit Community Care NGS Federal, LLC Indiana Optimum Healthcare, Inc. Florida Park Square Holdings, Inc. California Park Square I, Inc. California Park Square II, Inc. California Pasteur Medical Bird Road, LLC Florida Pasteur Medical Center, LLC Delaware Pasteur Medical Cutler Bay, LLC Florida Pasteur Medical Group, LLC Florida Pasteur Medical Hialeah Gardens, LLC Florida Pasteur Medical Holdings, LLC Florida Pasteur Medical Kendall, LLC Florida Pasteur Medical Management, LLC Florida Pasteur Medical Miami Gardens, LLC Florida Pasteur Medical North Miami Beach, LLC Florida Pasteur Medical Partners, LLC Florida Resolution Health, Inc. Delaware Delaware Resolution Health, Inc. RightCHOICE Managed Care, Inc. Delaware Rocky Mountain Hospital and Medical Service, Inc. Colorado Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield SellCore, Inc. Delaware SellCore Insurance Services, Inc. Simply Healthcare Plans, Inc. Florida Southeast Services, Inc. Virginia State Sponsored DM Services, Inc. Indiana The Anthem Companies of California, Inc. California The Anthem Companies, Inc. Indiana TrustSolutions, LLC Wisconsin UNICARE Health Plan of West Virginia, Inc. West Virginia UNICARE Illinois Services, Inc. Illinois UniCare Life & Health Insurance Company Indiana UNICARE Adjuster UNICARE National Services, Inc. Delaware UniCare Specialty Services, Inc. Delaware Valus, Inc. Indiana WellCare of Nebraska, Inc. Nebraska Wellmax Health Medical Centers, LLC Florida Wellmax Health Physicians Network, LLC Florida WellPoint Acquisition, LLC Indiana WellPoint California Services, Inc. Delaware WellPoint Dental Services, Inc. Delaware RightCHOICE Benefit Administrators Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Clear Health Alliance Better Health Amerigroup Florida Amerigroup GBD Disease Management Program Anthem GBD Disease Management Program Amerigroup GBD Behavioral Health Anthem GBD Behavioral Health Exhibit 21 WellPoint Health Solutions, Inc. Indiana WellPoint Holding Corp. Delaware WellPoint Information Technology Services, Inc. California WellPoint Insurance Services, Inc. Hawaii WellPoint Military Care Corporation Indiana Wisconsin Collaborative Insurance Company Wisconsin WPMI, LLC Delaware Exhibit 21 We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements: of our reports dated February 19, 2020, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(c) of Anthem, Inc., and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Anthem, Inc., included in its Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2019. S ERNST & YOUNG LLP Indianapolis, Indiana February 19, 2020 Form S-8 No. 333-84906 and Form S-8 No. 333-129334 pertaining to the Anthem 401(k) Plan Form S-8 No. 333-156099 pertaining to the Anthem, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan Form S-8 No. 333-159830 pertaining to the Anthem Incentive Compensation Plan Form S-8 No. 333-218190 pertaining to the 2017 Anthem Incentive Compensation Plan and Form S-3 No. 333-221824 pertaining to the Anthem, Inc. registration of senior debt securities, subordinated debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, depositary shares, warrants, rights, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM Exhibit 23 I, Gail K. Boudreaux, certify that: 1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Anthem, Inc. 2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report 4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function): Date: February 19, 2020 s GAIL K. BOUDREAUX President and Chief Executive Officer a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared b) designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation and d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting and a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information and b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. RULE 13a-14(a) AND RULE 15d-14(a) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT RULES, SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO Exhibit 31.1 I, John E. Gallina, certify that: 1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Anthem, Inc. 2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report 4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function): Date: February 19, 2020 s JOHN E. GALLINA a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared b) designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation and d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting and a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information and b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. RULE 13a-14(a) AND RULE 15d-14(a) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT RULES, SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Exhibit 31.2 In connection with the Annual Report of Anthem, Inc. (the Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2019 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report ), I, Gail K. Boudreaux, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: s GAIL K. BOUDREAUX Gail K. Boudreaux President and Chief Executive Officer February 19, 2020 (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, Exhibit 32.1 In connection with the Annual Report of Anthem, Inc. (the Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2019 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report ), I, John E. Gallina, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: s JOHN E. GALLINA John E. Gallina Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer February 19, 2020 (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, Exhibit 32.2