2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 1 425 of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes No Rule 405 of the Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes No company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of large accelerated filer, accelerated filer, smaller reporting company and emerging growth company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Large accelerated filer Accelerated filer Non-accelerated filer Smaller reporting company Emerging growth company with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. 24.03 billion and 395 million shares of the Common Stock were outstanding. As of January 31, 2021, 397 million shares of the registrant s Common Stock (par value 0.01) were outstanding. Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 11, 2021, to be filed by the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the year ended December 31, 2020. ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes No Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management s assessment of the effectiveness of its Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes No As of June 30, 2020, the aggregate market value of the registrant s Common Stock (par value 0.01) held by non-affiliates of the registrant was Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain information from the Registrant s Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Table of Contents 5.625% Junior Subordinated Notes PRS New York Stock Exchange 4.125% Junior Subordinated Notes PFH New York Stock Exchange Common Stock, Par Value .01 PRU New York Stock Exchange Incorporation or Organization) (State or Other Jurisdiction of Title of Each Class Trading Symbols(s) Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE New Jersey 22-3703799 SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: (Address and Telephone Number of Registrant s Principal Executive Offices) FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM TO Prudential Financial, Inc. FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED December 31, 2020 (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE   COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 001-16707 UNITED STATES Washington, D.C. 20549 751 Broad Street Newark, NJ 07102 (973) 802-6000 Identification Number) (I.R.S. Employer 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 2 425 Forward-Looking Statements Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, believes, anticipates, includes, plans, assumes, estimates, projects, intends, should, will, shall or variations of such words are generally part of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management s current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including, among others: (1) the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy, financial markets and our business (2) losses on investments or financial contracts due to deterioration in credit quality or value, or counterparty default (3) losses on insurance products due to mortality experience, morbidity experience or policyholder behavior experience that differs significantly from our expectations when we price our products (4) changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates that may (a) adversely impact the profitability of our products, the value of separate accounts supporting these products or the value of assets we manage, (b) result in losses on derivatives we use to hedge risk or increase collateral posting requirements and (c) limit opportunities to invest at appropriate returns (5) guarantees within certain of our products which are market sensitive and may decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position (6) liquidity needs resulting from (a) derivative collateral market exposure, (b) asset liability mismatches, (c) the lack of available funding in the financial markets or (d) unexpected cash demands due to severe mortality calamity or lapse events (7) financial or customer losses, or regulatory and legal actions, due to inadequate or failed processes or systems, external events, and human error or misconduct such as (a) disruption of our systems and data, (b) an information security breach, (c) a failure to protect the privacy of sensitive data, (d) reliance on third-parties or (e) labor and employment matters (8) changes in the regulatory landscape, including related to (a) financial sector regulatory reform, (b) changes in tax laws, (c) fiduciary rules and other standards of care, (d) U.S. state insurance laws and developments regarding group-wide supervision, capital and reserves, (e) insurer capital standards outside the U.S. and (f) privacy and cybersecurity regulation (9) technological changes which may adversely impact companies in our investment portfolio or cause insurance experience to deviate from our assumptions (10) an inability to protect our intellectual property rights or claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others (11) ratings downgrades (12) market conditions that may adversely affect the sales or persistency of our products (13) competition (14) reputational damage (15) the costs, effects, timing, or success of our plans to execute our strategy and (16) the integration of Assurance IQ, LLC into our strategy. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not undertake to update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document. See Risk Factors included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of certain risks relating to our businesses and investment in our securities. PART I Item 1. Business 1 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 53 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 312 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 314 GLOSSARY 326 EXHIBIT INDEX 329 SIGNATURES 334 Table of Contents Certain of the statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Item 1A. Risk Factors 39 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 52 Item 2. Properties 52 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 53 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 53 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 54 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 56 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 151 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 157 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 312 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 312 Item 9B. Other Information 312 Item 11. Executive Compensation 312 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 312 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 313 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 314 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 325 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 3 425 the ultimate holding company for all of our companies. PICA refers to The Prudential Insurance Company of America. Prudential, the Company, we and our refer to our consolidated operations. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Retirement 5 Group Insurance 7 Individual Annuities 9 Individual Life 11 Assurance IQ 13 International Businesses 15 Corporate and Other 17 Closed Block Division 18 Seasonality of Key Financial Items 19 Reinsurance 20 Intangible and Intellectual Property 20 Regulation 21 Human Capital Resources 36 Information About our Executive Officers 37 Table of Contents Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Prudential Financial and the Registrant refer to Prudential Financial, Inc., Table of Contents 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 4 425 with approximately 1.721 trillion of assets under management as of December 31, 2020, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe and Latin America. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we offer a wide array of financial products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related products and services, mutual funds and investment management. We offer these products and services to individual and institutional customers through proprietary and third-party distribution networks. Our principal executive offices are located in Newark, New Jersey, and Prudential Financial s Common Stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol PRU . insurance company and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial. The demutualization was carried out under PICA s Plan of Reorganization, which required us to establish and operate a regulatory mechanism known as the Closed Block. The Closed Block includes certain in-force participating insurance and annuity products and corresponding assets that are used for the payment of benefits and policyholders dividends on these products, as well as certain related assets and liabilities. U.S. Workplace Solutions, U.S. Individual Solutions, and Assurance IQ divisions), our International Businesses, the Closed Block division and our Corporate and Other operations. The U.S. Workplace Solutions division consists of our Retirement and Group Insurance businesses the U.S. Individual Solutions division consists of our Individual Annuities and Individual Life businesses and the Assurance IQ division consists of our Assurance IQ business, which we acquired in October 2019. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this acquisition. The Closed Block division is accounted for as a divested business that is reported separately from the Divested and Run-off Businesses that are included in Corporate and Other. Divested and Run-off Businesses are composed of businesses that have been, or will be, sold or exited, including businesses that have been placed in wind-down status that do not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ). Our Corporate and Other operations include corporate items and initiatives that are not allocated to business segments, and the Divested and Run-off Businesses as described above. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and total assets by segment. growth potential due to earnings diversification and the opportunity to provide customers with integrated cross-business solutions, as well as capital benefits from a balanced risk profile. We are well-positioned to meet the needs of customers and tap into significant market opportunities through PGIM, our U.S. Businesses and our International Businesses. See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information. Table of Contents Prudential Financial, Inc. ( Prudential Financial or PFI ), a financial wellness leader and premier global investment manager On December 18, 2001, PICA converted from a mutual life insurance company owned by its policyholders to a stock life Our principal operations consist of PGIM (our global investment management business), our U.S. Businesses (consisting of our Our strategy centers on our mix of high-quality protection, retirement and investment management businesses which creates 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 5 425 equity, private credit and other alternatives, and multi-asset class strategies, to institutional and retail clients globally, as well as our general account. Products Our products and services are offered through the following seven businesses: PGIM Fixed Income - provides global active asset management services across public fixed income markets. Jennison Associates - provides active fundamental public equity and fixed income asset management services across an array of growth, value, global and specialty equity strategies, as well as long-duration fixed income strategies. QMA - provides systematic quantitative equity and global multi-asset strategies as well as customized client solutions. PGIM Private Capital - provides private credit solutions across the risk spectrum including investment grade, high yield, direct lending and mezzanine financing. PGIM Real Estate - provides a broad range of public and private real estate debt and equity strategies. PGIM Investments - manufactures and services retail investment management products primarily utilizing PGIM s asset managers across U.S. and European retail markets. PGIM Global Partners - operates local asset management businesses in Taiwan and India, and has interests in asset management operating joint ventures in China and Italy. Each of these businesses serves both individual and institutional clients. We hold co- and seed investments in some of our investment products for regulatory purposes to co-invest alongside clients or to seed new products or investment strategies to develop a track record. Table of Contents Provides investment management services and solutions related to public fixed income, public equity, real estate debt and Marketing and Distribution We primarily distribute products through the following channels: Institutional General Account Proprietary sales force for each PGIM business with PGIM s Institutional Relationship Group, which Third-party intermediaries and product Distribution channels associated with other Prudential Licensed sales professionals within Prudential Advisors, Provide investment management services across a broad independent marketing and client service teams. develops relationships with, and introduces PGIM s broad capabilities to, large institutions globally. manufacturers distributors globally who include our investment options in their products and platforms. business segments. Prudential s proprietary nationwide sales organization. array of asset classes for our general account. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 6 425 Revenues and Profitability Our revenues primarily come from: Asset management fees which are typically calculated based upon a percentage of assets under management. In certain asset management arrangements, we also receive performance-based incentive fees when the return on the managed assets exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance targets. Transaction fees earned in connection with the structuring, sale or purchase of assets, primarily related to real estate and private fixed income. Investment returns from co- and seed investing. Revenues from commercial mortgage origination and servicing. Our profitability is substantially impacted by: Macro market movements (e.g., interest rates, credit spreads and equity market performance). Our ability to achieve investment returns above the target benchmarks. Our ability to attract and retain client investments. Table of Contents PGIM (Continued) Competition We compete with numerous asset managers and other financial institutions. For our investment management products, we compete based on a number of factors, including investment performance, strategy and process, talent, organizational stability and client relationships. We offer products across multiple asset classes, with specialized investment teams that employ approaches designed to add value in each product area or asset class. Our organizational stability and robust institutional and retail businesses have helped attract and retain talent critical to delivering investment results for clients. Our private credit and commercial real estate lending businesses compete based on price, terms, execution and the strength of our relationship with the borrower. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 7 425 private and not-for-profit sectors. We offer a variety of products and services through the following two businesses: Full Service A broad range of products and services to assist in the design, delivery and administration of defined contribution, defined benefit and non-qualified retirement plans, and retail Individual Retirement Accounts ( IRA ). Recordkeeping and administrative services, actuarial consulting services, tailored participant education and communication services, comprehensive investment offerings and consulting services to assist retirement plan sponsors in managing fiduciary obligations. General Account and Separate Account Stable Value products - generally contain an obligation to credit interest at a specified rate for a specified period of time and to repay account balances over time, or market value upon contract termination. These products are either fully or partially participating with annual or semi-annual rate resets subject to certain contractual minimums, giving effect to previous investment experience and other factors depending on the products. Other investment products - include fee-based products through which customer funds are held in separate accounts, retail mutual funds, institutional funds or bank collective trusts advised by affiliated and non-affiliated investment managers, as well as synthetic guaranteed investment contracts, and guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit products. Institutional Investment Products Payout Annuities: products that provide a predictable source of monthly income, generally for the life of the annuitant. Table of Contents Develops and distributes retirement investment and income products and services to retirement plan sponsors in the public, Pension risk transfer - non-participating group annuity Pension risk transfer - longevity reinsurance contracts insurance and reinsurance contracts issued to pension plan sponsors and intermediaries, under which we assume all investment and actuarial risk associated with a group of specified participants within a plan in return for a premium typically paid as a lump-sum at inception. with counterparties from which we earn a fee for assuming the longevity risk of pension plans that have been insured by third-parties. Premiums for these products are typically paid over the duration of the contract as opposed to a lump-sum at inception. U.S. Businesses U.S. Workplace Solutions Division Retirement Products (continued) Stable Value: products where our obligations are backed by our general account, where we bear some or all of the investment and asset-liability management risk, depending on the product. Other products: include structured settlements and other group annuities. Marketing and Distribution We primarily distribute products through the following channels for the two businesses: Full Service Proprietary sales and support teams. Third-party financial advisors, brokers, benefits consultants, and investment consultants. Directly to plan sponsors. Institutional Investment Products Pension risk transfer through actuarial consultants and third- party brokers. Structured settlements through third-party specialized brokers. Voluntary income products and other group annuities through the defined contribution portion of our full service business and directly to plan sponsors. Stable value products through our proprietary sales force and third-party intermediaries. Investment-only products - for use in institutional capital Guaranteed Investment Contracts and Funding markets and qualified plans primarily including fee- based wraps through which customers funds are held in a client-owned trust and investment results pass through to the customer. We earn fee revenue for providing a guaranteed minimum interest rate backed by the general account. Agreements - contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate and to repay principal at maturity or following contract termination. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 8 425 Revenues and Profitability Our revenues primarily come in the form of: Premiums associated with insurance and reinsurance contracts and our payout annuities. Policy charges and fee income associated with recordkeeping and other administrative services, and investment products (including fee-based stable value) that we offer. Policy charges and fee income are primarily based on account values and or number of participants. Investment income (which contributes to the net spread over interest credited on our products and related expenses). Our profitability is substantially impacted by our ability to appropriately price our products. We price our products based on pricing models that consider the investment environment and our risk, fees, expenses, profitability targets, and assumptions for mortality and potential for early retirement. These assumptions may be less predictable in certain markets. Table of Contents Retirement (Continued) Competition We compete with other large, well-established insurance companies, asset managers, recordkeepers and diversified financial institutions. Full Service - we compete primarily based on: Pricing Breadth of our service and investment offerings Expertise of our employees Investment performance Technology Our ability to offer product features to meet the retirement income needs of our clients While we continue to have heightened pricing pressures (driven by competition, contractual limits on fee income, the influence of both intermediaries and regulations requiring more standard and consistent fee disclosures across industry providers), this business has experienced strong persistency in recent years. Institutional Investment Products - we compete primarily based on: Pricing Structuring capabilities Our ability to offer innovative product solutions and successfully execute large-scale transactions We are a leader in providing innovative pension risk management solutions to plan sponsors and in the stable value market. We believe the pension risk transfer market continues to offer attractive opportunities that are aligned with our expertise. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 9 425 trust-owned life insurance in the U.S. primarily to institutional clients for use in connection with employee and membership benefits plans. Also sells accidental death and dismemberment and other supplemental health solutions and provides plan administration services in connection with its insurance coverages. Products We offer a variety of products and services through the following two businesses: Group Life Insurance Employer-paid and employee-paid coverages for term life insurance, group universal life, group variable universal life, basic and optional accidental death and dismemberment insurance. Many of our employee-paid coverages allow employees to retain their coverage when they change employers or retire, and we offer waiver of premium coverage where required premiums are waived in the event the insured suffers a qualifying disability. Group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance in the form of group variable life insurance contracts utilizing separate accounts. These products are typically used by large corporations to fund deferred compensation plans and benefit plans for retired employees. Group Disability Insurance Short-term and long-term group disability insurance, which protect against loss of wages due to illness or injury. Short- term disability generally provides weekly benefits for three to six months while long-term disability benefits are typically paid monthly, following a waiting period, and generally continue until the insured returns to work or reaches normal retirement age. Plan administration and absence management services. Table of Contents Develops and distributes a full range of group life, long-term and short-term group disability, and group corporate-, bank- and U.S. Businesses U.S. Workplace Solutions Division Group Insurance Marketing and Distribution We primarily distribute products through a proprietary sales force organized around market segments in conjunction with employee benefit brokers and consultants. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 10 425 Revenues and Profitability Our revenues primarily come in the form of: Premiums and policy charges for our group life and group disability products. Investment income (which contributes to the net spread over interest credited on our products and related expenses). Our profitability is substantially impacted by our ability to appropriately price our products, many of which include multiple year premium rate guarantees. We price our products based on: Underwriting practices and rating systems that consider company, industry and or other experience. The expected pay-out of benefits and other costs that we calculate using assumptions for mortality and morbidity rates, interest rates and expenses, depending upon the specific product features. Table of Contents Group Insurance (Continued) Competition We compete with other large, well-established life and health insurance providers in mature markets. We compete primarily based on brand recognition, service capabilities, customer relationships, financial strength, our range of product offerings and price. Our pricing of group insurance products is reflective of the large number of competitors in the marketplace. The majority of our premiums are derived from the National segment, which consists of large corporations, affinity groups and other organizations having over 5,000 insured individuals. We are seeking to grow our client base within the Premier segment, which consists of corporations, affinity groups and other organizations that have between 100 and 5,000 individuals. Employee-paid coverage is important as employers attempt to control costs and shift benefit decisions and funding to employees who continue to value workplace benefits. Our profitability is dependent, in part, on the voluntary coverage marketplace, which will be affected by future employment and compensation rates. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 11 425 investable assets or annual income in excess of 100,000) and affluent (households with investable assets in excess of 250,000) customers with a focus on innovative product design and risk management strategies. We offer a variety of products to serve different retirement needs and goals: Variable Annuities The Prudential Premier Investment Variable Annuity ( PPI ) offers tax-deferred asset accumulation, annuitization options and an optional death benefit that guarantees the contractholder s beneficiary a return of total purchase payments made to the contract, adjusted for any partial withdrawals, upon death. MyRock Advisors, a fee-based variable annuity launched in Indexed Variable Annuities The Prudential FlexGuard indexed variable annuity, launched Discontinued Variable Annuities The Prudential Premier Retirement Variable Annuity with Highest Daily Lifetime Income ( HDI ) offers lifetime income based on the highest daily account value plus a compounded deferral credit. Sales of this product have been discontinued as of December 31, 2020. The Prudential Premier Retirement Variable Annuity with Legacy Protection Plus ( LPP ) provides an optional enhanced death benefit based on the purchase payments rolling up at a preset rate on an annual basis until certain events occur, such as the death of the first owner (or annuitant if entity-owned) or the roll-up cap is reached. Sales of this product have been discontinued as of December 31, 2020. The Prudential Defined Income ( PDI ) Variable Annuity August 2019. In April of 2020, an optional Dynamic Income Benefit ( IB ) rider was added that provides longevity protection through a preset withdrawal percentage applied to a variable income base. In addition, the product offers either a basic death benefit, or a Return of Purchase Payment ( ROP ) death benefit. Both the IB and the ROP are available for an additional fee. in May 2020, offers the contractholder an opportunity to allocate funds to variable subaccounts and index-based strategies. The strategies provide interest or an interest component linked to, but not an investment in, the selected index, and its performance over the elected term, subject to certain contractual minimums and maximums, and also provides varying levels of downside protection at pre-determined levels and durations. The product also allows for additional deposits and provides an ROP death benefit at no additional charge. provides for guaranteed lifetime withdrawal payments but restricts contractholder investment to a single bond sub-account within the separate accounts. PDI includes a living benefit rider which provides for a specified lifetime income withdrawal rate applied to total purchase payments made to the contract, subject to annual roll-up increases until lifetime withdrawals commence, but does not have a highest daily benefit feature as discussed above. Sales of this product have been discontinued as of December 31, 2020. Table of Contents Develops and distributes individual variable and fixed annuity products, primarily to U.S. mass affluent (households with U.S. Businesses U.S. Individual Solutions Division Individual Annuities Products (continued) Fixed Annuities PruSecure , and SurePath and SurePath Income, The Prudential Fixed Annuity with Daily Advantage Income Benefit ( DAI ), a single premium fixed The Prudential Immediate Income Annuity ( PIIA ), a single premium immediate annuity, provides a regular stream of benefit payments. The payments are guaranteed, cannot be changed and are higher than those guaranteed on products that provide liquidity. Marketing and Distribution Our distribution efforts, which are supported by a network of internal and external wholesalers, are executed through a diverse group of distributors including: Third-party broker-dealers Banks and wirehouses Independent financial planners Financial professionals, including those associated with Prudential Advisors, Prudential s proprietary nationwide sales organization Independent Marketing Organizations ( IMO ) (specifically for SurePath and SurePath Income) LINK by Prudential, a personalized digital platform that connects customers to insurance professionals, through various channels (online, phone, video chat, or in person) all single premium fixed index annuities, offer flexibility to allocate account balances between an index-based strategy and a fixed rate strategy. The index-based strategy provides interest or an interest component linked to, but not an investment in, the selected index, and its performance over the elected term (i.e., 1, 3 or 5 years for PruSecure and 1 or 3 years for SurePath and SurePath Income), subject to certain contractual minimums and maximums. The fixed rate strategy, not associated with an index, offers a guaranteed growth at a set interest rate for one year and can be renewed annually. Additionally, SurePath Income offers a benefit that provides for guaranteed lifetime withdrawal payments. annuity launched in May 2020, provides principal protection as well as a guaranteed lifetime withdrawal income payment for an additional fee. The lifetime income amount increases daily without exposure to the equity market until the contractholder begins taking withdrawals. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 12 425 Revenues and Profitability Our revenues primarily come in the form of: Fee income from asset management fees and service fees, which represent administrative service and distribution fees from many of our proprietary and non-proprietary mutual funds. The asset management fees are determined as a percentage of the average assets of our proprietary mutual funds in our variable annuity products (net of sub-advisory expenses related to non-proprietary sub-advisors). Policy charges and fee income representing mortality, expense and other fees for various insurance-related options and features based on the average daily net asset value of the annuity separate accounts, account value, premium, or guaranteed value, as applicable. Investment income (which contributes to the net spread over interest credited on certain products and related expenses). Our profitability is substantially impacted by our ability to appropriately price our products. We price our products based on: An evaluation of the risks assumed and consideration of applicable risk management strategies, including hedging and reinsurance costs. Assumptions regarding investment returns and contractholder behavior, including persistency, benefit utilization and the timing and efficiency of withdrawals for contracts with living benefit features, as well as other assumptions. Table of Contents Individual Annuities (Continued) Competition We are among the industry s largest providers of individual annuities and we compete with other providers of retirement savings and accumulation products, including large, well- established insurance and financial services companies. We believe our competitive advantage lies primarily in our innovative product features and our risk management strategies as well as brand recognition, financial strength, the breadth of our distribution platform and our customer service capabilities. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 13 425 with investable assets in excess of 25,000 or annual income in excess of 50,000), mass affluent (households with investable assets or annual income in excess of 100,000) and affluent (households with investable assets in excess of 250,000) customers with a focus on providing life insurance solutions to protect individuals, families and businesses and to support estate and wealth transfer planning. Products We offer a variety of products that serve different protection needs and goals: Variable Life - permanent coverage for life with potential to accumulate policy cash value based on underlying investment options Our variable life policies offer flexibility in payment options and the potential to accumulate cash value through a suite of underlying investment options or a fixed rate option. We offer different types of variable life policies that, in addition to the death benefit, are tailored to prioritize different goals, such as protection with moderate risk, growth with higher risk or legacy giving. Term Life - coverage for a specified number of years with a guaranteed tax-advantaged death benefit Most of our term life policies offer an income tax-free death benefit, guaranteed premiums that will stay the same during the level-premium period and access to the death benefit while the policyholder is still alive to help them if they become terminally ill. Most of our term life policies also offer a conversion option that allows the policyholder to convert the policy into a permanent policy that can potentially cover the insured for life. Universal Life - permanent coverage for life with the potential to accumulate policy cash value Our universal life policies offer flexibility in payment options and the potential to accumulate cash value in an account that earns interest based on a crediting rate determined by the Company, subject to contractual minimums. Indexed universal life policies provide interest credited to the cash value that is linked to, but not an investment in, the performance of an external index over a 1-year period, subject to certain cap and participation rates and contractual minimums maximums. Table of Contents Develops and distributes variable life, universal life and term life insurance products primarily to U.S. mass middle (households U.S. Businesses U.S. Individual Solutions Division Individual Life Marketing and Distribution Our distribution efforts, which are supported by a network of internal and external wholesalers, are executed through a diverse group of distributors, including: Third-party distribution Prudential Advisors (Prudential s proprietary nationwide sales organization) Direct-to-Consumer Independent brokers Banks and wirehouses General agencies and producer groups Distributes Prudential life insurance, annuities and Offers certain retail brokerage and retail investment Continues to execute a solutions-oriented business Receives a market-based allowance from other LINK by Prudential, a personalized digital platform Assurance IQ, a wholly-owned consumer solutions investment products with proprietary and non- proprietary investment options as well as select insurance, annuities and investment products from other carriers. advisory services (through our dually-registered broker-dealer and investment advisor, Pruco Securities, LLC) including brokerage accounts, discretionary and non-discretionary investment advisory programs and financial planning services. model centered around client relationships while strengthening and driving Prudential s brand promise. Prudential business segments for distributing their products, which is eliminated between the segments in consolidation. that connects customers to insurance professionals, through various channels (online, phone, video chat, or in person). platform that leverages data science and technology to distribute a proprietary term life product (as well as other third-party health and financial wellness solutions) directly to retail shoppers primarily through its digital and agent channels. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 14 425 Revenues and Profitability Our revenues primarily come in the form of: Premiums that are fixed in accordance with the terms of the policies. Policy charges and fee income consisting of in-force policy- and or asset-based fees. Investment income (which contributes to the net spread over interest credited on our products and related expenses). Our profitability is substantially impacted by our ability to appropriately price our products. We price our products based on: Our assumptions of mortality and morbidity, persistency, interest rates, expenses, premium payment patterns, separate account fund performance and product generated tax deductions. Table of Contents Individual Life (Continued) Competition We compete with other large, well-established life insurance companies in a mature market. We compete primarily based on price, service (including the speed and ease of underwriting), distribution channel relationships, brand recognition and financial strength. Due to the large number of competitors, pricing is competitive. We periodically adjust product offerings, prices and features based on the market and our strategy, with a goal of achieving customer and enterprise value across a balanced product portfolio and consistent sales growth. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 15 425 casualty, and personal finance products) and a proprietary term life product directly to retail shoppers, primarily through its digital and agent channels. Additionally, Assurance IQ may help customers fulfill financial wellness needs by matching them with other product providers or intermediaries. Products Assurance IQ primarily distributes the following products: Medicare - third-party Medicare Supplement and Medicare Advantage for qualifying Medicare beneficiaries. Health Under 65 - third-party primary and supplemental health insurance that cover an individual s medical and prescription expenses, including product coverage provided under the Affordable Care Act. Life - third-party life insurance products, including term life, final expense, and whole life protection, as well as a proprietary term life product. Some carriers products allow for accelerated underwriting to enable faster policy placement. Property and Casualty - third-party auto and home insurance coverage that indemnifies customers for loss caused by accidents, theft, natural disasters and other events where property damage or financial loss may occur. Personal Finance - third-party residential mortgage products for retail borrowers. Table of Contents Leverages data science and technology to primarily distribute third-party products (such as Medicare, health, life, property and U.S. Businesses Assurance IQ Division Assurance IQ Marketing and Distribution The Assurance IQ business model relies primarily on digital marketing and data science to reach prospective customers ( shoppers ) to, in turn, drive traffic to its distribution platform. Digital marketing includes traffic from various sources such as search, email, and social media. To a lesser extent, we also use traditional forms of marketing such as print and TV. We primarily distribute products through the following channels: On Demand Agents - Commission-based, independent agents that are located across the United States. They work remotely, and collectively are licensed to sell various products in all 50 states. Hub Agents - Licensed agents employed by Assurance IQ who work in certain strategic locations across the U.S. or via work-at-home arrangements. Agents are compensated through a combination of base and incentive pay. Third-Party Agent Call Centers - Assurance IQ may contract with licensed agent call centers as a means of serving shoppers, especially during periods of peak shopper demand (e.g., Medicare annual election period in the fourth quarter). Digital - Shoppers can price and purchase many of Assurance IQ s offerings completely online, without the involvement of an agent. Third-Party Case Referrals - Assurance IQ transfers shoppers in the form of calls, clicks and leads to selected marketing partners who may be able to alternatively serve a shopper s specific needs for life, health, Medicare, property and casualty insurance, and various personal finance products. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 16 425 Revenue Our revenues primarily come in the form of: Commissions received from product manufacturers. Case referral revenues earned from marketing partners related to the transfer of calls, clicks or leads. Table of Contents Assurance IQ (Continued) Competition We compete with large and small life, health and property and casualty retail distributors, third-party brokers, and other fintech and insurtech companies. We compete based on several factors, including: marketing reach and effectiveness the ability to effectively match shoppers to the right products and solutions using data science our capacity to meet shoppers demands and the quality of our technology platform, which optimizes the customer experience and enables agents to efficiently service shoppers. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 17 425 affluent and affluent customers through our Life Planner operations in Japan, Brazil, Argentina and Mexico. Also provides similar products through our Gibraltar Life and Other operations to broad middle income and mass affluent customers across Japan, our joint ventures in Chile, China, India and Indonesia, and our strategic investment in Ghana through multiple distribution channels (including banks, independent agencies and Life Consultants). Products Our products are classified into the following four categories: Life Insurance Protection Products - include various traditional whole life products that provide either level or increasing coverage, and that offer limited or lifetime premium payment options. We also offer increasing, decreasing and level benefit term insurance products that provide coverage for a specified time period, as well as protection-oriented variable life products. Some of these protection products are denominated in U.S. dollars and some are sold as bundled products that, in addition to death protection, include health benefits or savings elements. Retirement Products - include retirement income products that combine insurance protection similar to term life with a lifetime income stream that commences at a predefined age, savings- oriented variable life products that provide a non-guaranteed return linked to an underlying investment portfolio of equity and fixed income funds selected by the customer, and endowments that provide payment of the face amount on the earlier of death or policy maturity. Annuity Products - primarily represented by U.S. dollar- denominated fixed annuities sold by our Gibraltar Life operations in Japan. Sales and surrenders of non-yen denominated products in Japan can be sensitive to foreign currency relationships which are impacted by, among other things, the comparative interest rates in their respective countries. Most of our fixed annuity products impose a market value adjustment if the contract is not held to maturity. Accident and Health Products - provide benefits to cover accidental death and dismemberment, hospitalization, surgeries, and cancer and other dread diseases, often sold as supplementary riders and not as stand-alone products. We also offer waiver of premium coverage where required premiums are waived in the event the customer suffers a qualifying disability. Table of Contents Develops and distributes life insurance, retirement products and certain accident and health products with fixed benefits to mass International Businesses Marketing and Distribution Our marketing and distribution efforts are conducted through the following proprietary agent models and third-party channels: Proprietary agent models: Life Planners - focuses on selling protection-oriented life insurance products on a needs basis to mass affluent and affluent customers, as well as retirement-oriented products to small businesses. We believe that our recruiting and selection process, training programs and compensation packages are key to the Life Planner model and have helped our Life Planner operations achieve higher levels of agent retention, agent productivity and policy persistency. Life Consultants - is a proprietary distribution force for products offered by our Gibraltar Life operations. Their focus is to provide individual protection products to the broad middle income market, primarily in Japan, particularly through relationships with affinity groups. Our Life Consultant operation is based on a variable compensation plan designed to improve productivity and persistency that is similar to compensation plans in our Life Planner operations. Third-party channels: Bank Distribution Channel - sells primarily life insurance products intended to provide savings features, premature death protection and estate planning benefits as well as fixed annuity products primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. We view the bank distribution channel as an adjunct to our core Life Planner and Life Consultant distribution channels. A significant portion of our sales in Japan through our bank distribution channel are derived through a single Japanese mega-bank however, we have relationships with each of Japan s four largest banks as well as many regional banks, and we continue to explore opportunities to expand our distribution capabilities through this channel, as appropriate. Independent Agency Distribution Channel - sells protection products and high cash value products for retirement benefits through the corporate market and a variety of other products including protection and fixed annuity products through the individual market. Our focus is to maintain a diverse mix of independent agency relationships including corporate agencies and other independent agencies with a balanced focus on individual and corporate markets. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 18 425 Revenues and Profitability Our revenues primarily come in the form of: Premiums that are fixed or flexible in accordance with the terms of the policies. Policy charges and fee income consisting of in-force policy- and or asset-based fees. Investment income (which contributes to the net spread over interest credited on our products and related expenses). Our profitability is substantially impacted by our ability to appropriately price our products. We price our products based on: Local regulation, which is generally more restrictive for product offerings, pricing and structure than U.S. insurance regulation. Each international insurance operation has its own underwriting department that employs variations of U.S. practices in underwriting individual policy risks. To the extent permitted by local regulation, we base premiums and policy charges for our products on expected death and morbidity benefits, surrender benefits, expenses, required reserves, interest rates, policy persistency and premium payment patterns. In setting underwriting limits, we also consider local industry standards to prevent adverse selection and to stay abreast of industry trends. In addition, we set underwriting limits together with each operation s reinsurers. Achieving a targeted rate of return for each operation, taking into account the country-specific costs of capital, risks, and competitive environment. The profitability of our products is impacted by differences between actual mortality, morbidity, expense, and investment experience and the related assumptions used in pricing these policies. As a result, the profitability of our products can fluctuate from period to period. Changes in local tax laws may also affect profitability. Table of Contents International Businesses (Continued) Competition The life insurance market in Japan is mature and pricing is competitive. Rather than competing primarily based on price, we generally compete on the basis of customer service, including our needs-based approach to selling, the quality and diversity of our distribution capabilities, and our financial strength. Demographic trends in Japan suggest an increasing opportunity for product innovation, introducing insurance products that allow for savings and income as a growing portion of the population prepares for retirement. The ability to sell through multiple and complementary distribution channels is also a competitive advantage however, competition for sales personnel, as well as access to third-party distribution channels, is intense. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 19 425 will be divested or placed in wind-down status, except for the Closed Block. Results of the Closed Block, along with certain related assets and liabilities, are reported separately from the Divested and Run-off Businesses included in Corporate and Other. allocated to business segments, including debt-financed investment portfolios, and tax credit and other tax-enhanced investments financed by business segments (3) capital debt, including any related interest expense and financing costs, that is used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of the Company (4) our qualified and non-qualified pension and other employee benefit plans, after allocations to business segments (5) corporate-level activities, after allocations to business segments, including strategic expenditures, acquisition and disposition costs, corporate governance, corporate advertising, philanthropic activities, deferred compensation, costs related to certain contingencies and legal matters (6) expenses associated with the multi-year plan of programs that span across our businesses and the functional areas that support those businesses (7) certain retained obligations relating to pre- demutualization policyholders (8) impacts of risk management activities pursuant to our Risk Appetite Framework (9) the foreign currency income hedging program used to hedge certain non-U.S. dollar denominated earnings in our International Businesses segment (10) intercompany arrangements with our International Businesses and PGIM segments to translate non-U.S. dollar- denominated earnings at fixed currency exchange rates and (11) transactions with and between other segments, including the elimination of intercompany transactions for consolidation purposes. businesses that have been placed in wind-down status that do not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. We exclude these results from our adjusted operating income. Divested and Run-off Businesses include: Table of Contents Includes corporate items and initiatives that are not allocated to our business segments as well as businesses that have been or Corporate Operations - consist primarily of: (1) capital that is not deployed in any business segment (2) investments not Divested and Run-off Businesses - reflect the results of businesses that have been, or will be, sold or exited, including Long-Term Care - in 2012, we discontinued sales of our individual and group long-term care insurance products. We establish reserves for these products in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We use best estimate assumptions as of the most recent loss recognition date when establishing reserves for future policyholder benefits and expenses, including assumptions for morbidity, mortality, mortality improvement, persistency, expenses and investment returns. Our assumptions also include our estimate of the timing and amount of anticipated future premium rate increases and policyholder benefit reductions which will require approval by state regulatory authorities. Other - recent transactions include: (1) in 2020, we sold our Korean insurance business and entered into an agreement to sell our Taiwanese insurance business, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions (2) in 2019, we sold our Pramerica of Italy subsidiary and (3) in 2018, we sold our Pramerica of Poland subsidiary and exited our PGIM Brazil operations, including the sale of our minority interest in a Brazilian asset management joint venture. Corporate and Other 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 20 425 products under which policyholders are eligible to receive policyholder dividends reflecting experience. The liabilities for our individual in-force participating products were segregated, together with assets to be used exclusively for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends, expenses and taxes with respect to these products, in the Closed Block. We selected the amount of assets that were expected to generate sufficient cash flow, together with anticipated revenues from the Closed Block policies, over the life of the Closed Block to fund payments of all policyholder benefits, expenses and taxes, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales that were in effect in 2000, assuming experience underlying such scales continued. No policies sold after demutualization have been added to the Closed Block, and its in-force business is expected to decline as we pay policyholder benefits in full. treated as a divested business under our definition of adjusted operating income and reported separately from the other Divested and Run-off Businesses that are included in our Corporate and Other. favorable than we originally assumed in funding, total dividends paid to Closed Block policyholders in the future may be greater or less than the total dividends that would have been paid to these policyholders if the policyholder dividend scales that were in effect in 2000 had been continued. Any experience in excess of amounts assumed may be available for distribution over time to Closed Block policyholders as part of policyholder dividends unless offset by future Closed Block experience that is less favorable than expected. This excess experience will not be available to shareholders. If the Closed Block has insufficient funds to make guaranteed policy benefit payments, such payments will be made from PICA s assets outside of the Closed Block. A policyholder dividend obligation liability is established for any excess experience. Each year, the Board of Directors of PICA determines the dividends payable on participating policies for the following year based on the experience of the Closed Block, including investment income, net realized and unrealized investment gains and losses, mortality experience and other factors. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and total assets of the Closed Block division. diminution as policyholder benefits are paid in full. We are permitted under the Plan of Reorganization, with the prior consent of the Commissioner of Banking and Insurance for the State of New Jersey, to enter into agreements to transfer all or any part of the risks underlying the Closed Block policies. Table of Contents In connection with the demutualization in 2001, we ceased offering domestic participating individual life insurance and annuity The results of the Closed Block, along with certain related assets and liabilities, comprise the Closed Block division, which is As discussed in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, if the performance of the Closed Block is more or less Our strategy is to maintain the Closed Block as required by our Plan of Reorganization over the time period of its gradual Closed Block Division 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 21 425 (1) Long-term compensation expense for retirement eligible employees is recognized when awards are granted, typically in the first quarter of each year. (2) Other related revenues include incentive fees, transaction fees, co- and seed investing results and commercial mortgage revenues. (3) Reserve gains are typically higher lower than the quarterly average. Excludes the impact of annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements and market experience updates. (4) Impact of annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excludes PGIM and Assurance IQ. (5) Expenses are typically higher than the quarterly average in the fourth quarter. Assurance IQ Lowest revenue Higher revenue driven by International Corporate & Retirement Reserve gains higher(3) Reserve gains higher(3) Reserve gains lower(3) Reserve gains lower(3) Businesses Highest premiums Lowest premiums Businesses Individual PGIM Higher compensation Table of Contents The following chart summarizes our key areas of seasonality in our results of operations: Life Lowest underwriting gains Highest underwriting gains Higher compensation First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter expense(1) expense(1) Seasonality of Key Financial Items assumption update(4) Higher expenses(5) Impact of annual annual Medicare enrollment Other related revenues tend to be higher(2) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 22 425 the risks reinsured is reduced by transferring certain rights and obligations of the underlying insurance product to a counterparty. Conversely, as an assuming entity, exposure to the risks reinsured is increased by assuming certain rights and obligations of the underlying insurance products from a counterparty. We enter into reinsurance agreements as the ceding entity for a variety of reasons but primarily do so to reduce exposure to loss, reduce risk volatility, provide additional capacity for future growth and for capital management purposes. Under ceded reinsurance, we remain liable to the underlying policyholder if a third-party reinsurer is unable to meet its obligations. On a Company-wide basis, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers, monitor the concentration of counterparty risk and maintain collateral, as appropriate, to mitigate this exposure. We enter into reinsurance agreements as the assuming entity as part of our normal product offering process (e.g., certain pension risk transfer products in the Retirement segment) or in order to facilitate an acquisition of a block of business. implementing trade secret controls, as appropriate. We also use numerous federal, state, common law and foreign service marks, including in particular Prudential , the Prudential logo , our Rock symbol and PGIM . We believe that the value associated with many of our patents and trade secrets, and the goodwill associated with many of our service marks, are significant competitive assets. concerning the parties respective rights worldwide to use the names Prudential and Pru. Since 2019, the agreement has also included M&G plc of the U.K., the parent of The Prudential Assurance Company Limited, following its Retirement Assumed Assumed reinsurance as part of our reinsurance pension risk transfer products and in conjunction with our 2004 acquisition of CIGNA s defined benefit and defined contribution business. Group Insurance Ceded Ceded reinsurance on most products to limit losses from large claims (in response to client requests and for capital management purposes). Individual Annuities Ceded Assumed Ceded reinsurance with both third-party reinsurers and affiliates. The third-party reinsurance includes the following products: Individual Life Ceded Assumed Ceded reinsurance with both third-party reinsurers and affiliates covering a variety of products to mitigate mortality risk and for capital management purposes. On policies sold since 2000, we have reinsured a significant portion of our mortality risk externally, with that portion varying over time depending on market factors and strategic objectives. International Businesses Ceded Ceded reinsurance with both third-party reinsurers and affiliates to mitigate mortality and morbidity risk for certain products and for capital management purposes. Closed Block Ceded PICA cedes substantially all of the outstanding liabilities of the Closed Block into a statutory guaranteed separate account of a wholly-owned subsidiary, Prudential Legacy Insurance Company of New Jersey, primarily on a coinsurance basis. The reinsurance transaction provides a long-term and comprehensive capital framework for the Closed Block. Table of Contents We regularly enter into reinsurance agreements as either the ceding entity or the assuming entity. As a ceding entity, exposure to We capture and protect the innovation in our financial services products by applying for federal business method patents and Since 2004, we have had an agreement with Prudential plc of the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), with whom we have no affiliation, The following table summarizes our use of reinsurance in each of our insurance reporting segments. Primary Type of Reinsurance Purpose Intangible and Intellectual Property Assumed reinsurance in conjunction with our 2006 acquisition of The Allstate Corporation ( Allstate ) variable annuity business as well as internally ceded and assumed reinsurance as part of our risk and capital management activities. Assumed reinsurance in conjunction with our 2013 acquisition of The Hartford s individual life insurance business. A portion of HDI v.3.0 variable annuity business issued between April 1, 2015 to December 31, 2016 and Certain fixed indexed annuity business (specifically for PruSecure and SurePath ) issued effective October 15, 2019. Under U.S. Reinsurance GAAP, this agreement is accounted for under deposit accounting. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 23 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 24 425 demerger from Prudential plc. The agreement restricts use of the Prudential and Pru names and marks in a number of countries outside the Americas, including Europe and most parts of Asia. Where these limitations apply, we combine our Rock symbol with alternative word marks. We believe that these limitations do not materially affect our ability to operate or expand internationally. Overview our customers and the overall financial system and not necessarily our shareholders or debt holders. Many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject are regularly re-examined. Existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations or profitability, increase compliance costs, or increase potential regulatory exposure. In recent years we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, extensive changes in the laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks applicable to our businesses in the U.S. and internationally. Such changes may be accelerated or otherwise impacted by the new presidential administration in the United States. We cannot predict how current or future initiatives will further impact existing laws, regulations and regulatory frameworks. our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and adversely affect our liquidity and profitability. In some instances, regulators of a particular country may impose different, or more rigorous laws and requirements than in the U.S. or other countries to protect customers or their financial system from perceived systemic risk, including regulations governing privacy, consumer protection, employee protection, corporate governance and capital adequacy. In addition, certain of our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that we may not face in the U.S., including the risk of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with independent contractor or franchisee status, workers associations and trade unions, nationalization or expropriation of assets, price controls and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that limit our ability to transfer funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or to convert local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies. Some jurisdictions in which we operate joint ventures restrict our maximum percentage of ownership, which exposes us to additional operational, compliance, legal and joint venture partner risks and limits our array of potential remedies in the event of a breach by a partner. Table of Contents Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. The purpose of these regulations is primarily to protect In our international businesses, regulations may apply heightened requirements to non-domestic companies, which can reduce The primary regulatory frameworks applicable to the Company are described further below under the following section Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Fiduciary Rules and other Standards of Care U.S. State Insurance Holding Company Regulation U.S. Insurance Operations International Insurance Regulation U.S. Investment and Retirement Products and Investment Management Operations U.S. Securities and Commodity Operations International Investment and Retirement Products and Investment Management Operations Derivatives Regulation Privacy and Cybersecurity Regulation Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Bribery Laws Environmental Laws and Regulations Unclaimed Property Laws International and Global Regulatory Initiatives Regulatory Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic Rescission of Designation Initiatives Regarding Dodd-Frank and Financial Regulation State Insurance Regulation U.S. Federal and State Securities Regulation Affecting Insurance Operations U.S. Federal and State Health Insurance Plan Regulation Other Consumer Protection Regulation U.S. Taxation International Taxation Regulation 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 25 425 Department of Banking and Insurance ( NJDOBI ). The purpose of the supervisory college is to promote ongoing supervisory coordination, facilitate the sharing of information among regulators and enhance each regulator s understanding of the Company s risk profile. The most recent supervisory college was held in October 2020. accounting pronouncements and their potential impact on our business, including Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2018-12, Financial Services - Insurance (Topic 944): Targeted Improvements to the Accounting for Long-Duration Contracts, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Rescission of Designation a non-bank financial company (a Designated Financial Company ) subject to supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ( FRB ) under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ( Dodd-Frank ). As a result of the Council s rescission of the Company s Designated Financial Company status, the Company is no longer subject to supervision and examination by the FRB or to the prudential standards applicable to Designated Financial Companies under Dodd-Frank. either (i) material financial distress at the entity, or (ii) the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the entity s activities, could pose a threat to domestic financial stability. The Company continues to believe it does not meet the standards for designation. Initiatives Regarding Dodd-Frank and Financial Regulation Designations, with recommendations on the Council s standards and processes for the designation and continued designation of Designated Financial Companies. In addition, in October 2017, the U.S. Department of the Treasury released a report titled A Financial System That Creates Economic Opportunities - Asset Management and Insurance which recommended, among other things, that primary federal and state regulators should focus on potential systemic risks arising from products and activities, and on implementing regulations that strengthen the asset management and insurance industries as a whole, rather than focus on an entity- based regulatory regime. The report also affirmed the role of the U.S. state-based system of insurance regulation. In December 2019, FSOC revised its interpretive guidance regarding Designated Financial Company determinations. The guidance describes the approach FSOC intends to take in prioritizing its work to identify and address potential risks to U.S. financial stability using an activities-based approach, and enhancing the analytical rigor and transparency in the processes FSOC intends to follow if it were to consider making a Designated Financial Company determination. From time to time Congress has also introduced legislation which, if enacted, would amend certain provisions of Dodd-Frank, including by requiring the Council to prioritize the use of an activities- based approach to mitigate identified systemic risks. Dodd-Frank and regulation of the financial system will ultimately form the basis for changes to laws or regulations impacting the Company. benefit plans sponsored by private employers and labor unions. Plans subject to ERISA include pension and profit sharing plans and welfare plans, including health, life and disability plans. ERISA provisions include reporting and disclosure rules, standards of conduct that apply to plan fiduciaries and prohibitions on transactions known as prohibited transactions, such as conflict-of-interest transactions and certain transactions between a benefit plan and a party in interest. ERISA also provides for civil and criminal penalties and enforcement. Our insurance, investment management and retirement businesses provide services to employee benefit plans subject to ERISA, including services where we may act as an ERISA fiduciary. In addition to ERISA regulation of businesses providing products and services to ERISA plans, we become subject to ERISA s prohibited transaction rules for transactions with those plans, which may affect our ability to enter transactions, or the terms on which transactions may be entered, with those plans, even in businesses unrelated to those giving rise to party in interest status. Table of Contents Several of our domestic and foreign regulators participate in an annual supervisory college facilitated by the New Jersey Existing and future accounting rules may also impact our results of operations or financial condition. For a discussion of In October 2018, the Financial Stability Oversight Council ( FSOC or the Council ) rescinded the Company s designation as The Council maintains the authority to designate entities, including the Company, for FRB supervision if it determines that In November 2017, the U.S. Department of the Treasury released a report titled Financial Stability Oversight Council We cannot predict whether the Treasury reports, interpretive guidance, new legislation or other initiatives aimed at revising The Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ) is a comprehensive federal statute that applies to U.S. employee 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 26 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 27 425 Fiduciary Rules and Other Standards of Care provision of advice to our customers. In recent years, many of these rules have been revised or reexamined, as described below. We cannot predict whether any proposed or new amendments to the existing regulatory framework will ultimately become applicable to our businesses. Any new standards issued by the U.S. Department of Labor ( DOL ), the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ) or state regulators may affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. DOL Fiduciary Rules who would be considered a fiduciary for purposes of transactions with qualified plans, plan participants and Individual Retirement Accounts ( IRAs ), and generally provided that investment advice to a plan participant or IRA owner would be treated as a fiduciary activity. Prior to being vacated, the rules adversely impacted sales in our annuities and retirement businesses and resulted in increased compliance costs. In December 2020, the DOL finalized a new prohibited transaction exemption that became effective on February 16, 2021, which replaces the previously vacated best interest contract exemption, and extended its non-enforcement relief to December 2021. The new exemption will allow fiduciaries meeting the requirements of the exemption to receive compensation, including as a result of advice to rollover assets from a tax-qualified plan to an IRA, and to purchase from or sell certain investments to qualified plans and IRAs. The DOL also reinstated the pre-2016 investment advice regulation and provided its current interpretation of that regulation, which could result in rollover recommendations being fiduciary investment advice if certain conditions are met. We are continuing to assess the implications of the final prohibited transaction exemption and accompanying interpretive guidance for our businesses. SEC Best Interest Regulation dealers to act in the best interest of retail customers when recommending securities transactions or investment strategies to them. The guidance also clarifies the SEC s views of the fiduciary duty that investment advisers owe to their clients. The new best interest standards became effective on June 30, 2020. The new standards apply to recommendations to purchase certain products offered by our PGIM, Retirement, Individual Annuities and Individual Life businesses, and have resulted in increased compliance costs, in particular in our Prudential Advisors distribution system, which we include in the results of our Individual Life segment. U.S. State Standard of Care Regulation model regulation states the insurance salesperson must act without placing the producer s or the insurer s financial interest ahead of the consumer s interest. The model rule will become applicable to us as it is adopted in each state. In addition, certain state regulators and legislatures have adopted or are considering adopting best interest standards. For example, in July 2018, the New York State Department of Financial Services ( NY DFS ) issued an amendment to its suitability regulations which imposes a best-interest standard on the sale of annuity and life insurance products in New York. The amendments became effective for annuity products on August 1, 2019 and for life insurance products on February 1, 2020, and the Company has taken steps we believe are necessary to comply with the rules. In addition, in October 2018, the New Jersey Bureau of Securities issued a proposal that would impose a fiduciary standard on all New Jersey investment professionals. Also, the Massachusetts Securities Division adopted a fiduciary standard of conduct which applies to broker-dealers and its agents, which has been enforced since September 1, 2020. Japan Standard of Care Regulation of recommended general principles for businesses to adopt when performing client related financial services. The principles have been adopted by The Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd. ( Prudential of Japan ), Gibraltar Life, and Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Company, Ltd. ( PGFL ). The FSA encourages voluntary adoption of these fiduciary principles as a best practice, but adoption is not required by regulation. Companies policies regarding their fiduciary duties can be tailored based on their specific business, such as target clients and complexity of products. Once companies adopt the principles and establish a policy, they are required to implement measures to ensure their employees fulfill their fiduciary duties, and periodically assess the measures effectiveness. Table of Contents The Company and our distributors are subject to rules regarding the standard of care applicable to sales of our products and the In June 2018, a Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals decision became effective that vacated rules issued by the DOL that redefined In June 2019, the SEC adopted a package of rulemakings and interpretative guidance that, among other things, requires broker- In February 2020, the NAIC adopted revisions to the model suitability rule applicable to the sale of annuities. The revised Outside the U.S., in 2017 the Japanese Financial Services Agency ( FSA ) announced the Principles of Fiduciary Duty, a set 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 28 425 U.S. State Insurance Holding Company Regulation currently include New Jersey, Arizona, Connecticut and Indiana, or are treated as commercially domiciled, such as New York. These laws generally require each insurance company directly or indirectly owned by the holding company to register with the insurance department in the insurance company s state of domicile and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including an assessment of the group s risk management and current and future solvency position. Generally, all transactions affecting the insurers in the holding company system must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval or non-disapproval by the state s insurance department. Change of Control regulatory approval of a direct or indirect change of control of an insurer or an insurer s holding company. Laws such as these that apply to us prevent any person from acquiring control of Prudential Financial or of our insurance subsidiaries unless that person has filed a statement with specified information with the insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval. Under most states statutes, acquiring 10% or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its parent company is presumptively considered a change of control, although such presumption may be rebutted. Accordingly, any person who acquires 10% or more of the voting securities of Prudential Financial without the prior approval of the insurance regulators of the states in which our U.S. insurance companies are domiciled will be in violation of these states laws and may be subject to injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those securities by the relevant insurance regulator or prohibiting the voting of those securities and to other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulator. In addition, many state insurance laws require prior notification to state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company doing business in that state. Group-Wide Supervision wide supervision of internationally active insurance groups ( IAIGs ). The law, among other provisions, authorizes NJDOBI to examine Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries, including by ascertaining the financial condition of the insurance companies for purposes of assessing enterprise risk. In accordance with this authority, NJDOBI receives information about the Company s operations beyond those of its New Jersey domiciled insurance subsidiaries. Table of Contents We are subject to the insurance holding company laws in the states where our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which Most states, including the states in which our U.S. insurance companies are domiciled, have insurance laws that require NJDOBI acts as the group-wide supervisor of Prudential Financial pursuant to New Jersey legislation that authorizes group- Additional areas of focus regarding group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies include the following: Group Capital Calculation. The NAIC is developing a U.S. group capital calculation that uses a risk-based capital ( RBC ) aggregation methodology. The calculation is intended to serve as an additional tool to help state regulators assess potential risks within and across insurance groups. A final version of the calculation is expected to be adopted in 2021, followed by implementation in 2022. Macroprudential Framework. The NAIC is developing a macroprudential framework intended to: (1) improve state insurance regulators ability to monitor and respond to the impact of external financial and economic risks on insurers (2) better monitor and respond to risk emanating from or amplified by insurers that might be transmitted externally and (3) increase public awareness of NAIC state monitoring capabilities regarding macroprudential trends. As part of this initiative, the areas identified by the NAIC for potential enhancement include liquidity reporting and stress testing, resolution and recovery, capital stress testing, and counterparty exposure and concentration. The NAIC is currently developing a liquidity stress testing framework and is updating its models and policies to enhance regulators resolution and recovery abilities. Examination. State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the books and records, financial reporting, policy filings and market conduct of insurance companies domiciled in their states, generally once every three to five years under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC. As group-wide supervisor, NJDOBI, along with our other insurance regulators, has expanded the periodic examinations to cover Prudential and all of its subsidiaries. In June 2018, NJDOBI, along with the insurance regulators of Arizona, Connecticut and Indiana, completed their first global consolidated group-wide examination of Prudential and its subsidiaries for the five-year period ended December 31, 2016 and had no reportable findings. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 29 425 Prudential Financial. U.S. Insurance Operations District of Columbia and various U.S. territories and possessions monitor our insurance operations. PICA is domiciled in New Jersey and its principal insurance regulatory authority is the NJDOBI. Our other U.S. insurance companies are principally regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled. Generally, our insurance products must be approved by the insurance regulators in the state in which they are sold. Our insurance products are substantially affected by federal and state tax laws. State Insurance Regulation licensing to transact business (2) licensing agents (3) admittance of assets to statutory surplus (4) regulating premium rates for certain insurance products (5) approving policy forms (6) regulating unfair trade and claims practices (7) establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards (8) fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans and minimum accumulation or surrender values (9) regulating the type, amounts and valuations of investments permitted (10) regulating reinsurance transactions, including the role of captive reinsurers and (11) other matters. departments everywhere they do business in accordance with accounting practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by these departments. The operations of our U.S. insurance companies and accounts are subject to examination by those departments at any time. Financial Regulation companies are domiciled regulate the amount of dividends that may be paid by PICA and our other U.S. insurance companies. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. RBC calculation, which regulators use to assess the sufficiency of an insurer s statutory capital, measures the risk characteristics of a company s assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items. In general, RBC is calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium, claim, expense and reserve items. Within a given risk category, these factors are higher for those items with greater underlying risk and lower for items with lower underlying risk. Insurers that have less statutory capital than required are considered to have inadequate capital and are subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level of capital inadequacy. Table of Contents We cannot predict what, if any, additional requirements and compliance costs any new group-wide standards will impose on State insurance laws regulate all aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses. State insurance departments in the fifty states, the State insurance authorities have broad administrative powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business including: (1) State insurance laws and regulations require our U.S. insurance companies to file financial statements with state insurance Dividend Payment Limitations. New Jersey insurance law and the insurance laws of the other states in which our insurance Risk-Based Capital. We are subject to RBC requirements that are designed to enhance regulation of insurers solvency. The Areas of the RBC framework that have recently been subject to reexamination or revision include the following: Bond Factors. The NAIC s Life Risk-Based Capital Working Group is developing updates to the RBC factors for invested assets. In April 2020, the NAIC adopted changes to expand current NAIC designations into the RBC calculation from six bond structures to twenty in order to conduct an impact analysis for 2020 year-end reporting. Longevity Mortality Risk. The NAIC s Longevity Risk Subgroup of the Life Insurance and Annuities Committee and Financial Condition Committee is developing recommendations to recognize longevity risk in risk-based capital related to annuities. Statutory reporting requirements on longevity risk were added in 2020 to allow the NAIC to understand the potential impact of risk-based capital changes being considered. The Company assumes this longevity risk primarily in its Retirement and Individual Annuities businesses. The NAIC is also developing updates to the existing mortality risk factors in RBC. Operational Risk. In 2018, the NAIC adopted operational risk charges that became effective for the year-end 2018 RBC calculation. The operational risk charges did not materially impact our 2018 RBC ratios given that we hold statutory capital consistent with or in excess of the thresholds established through these new charges. The NAIC is continuing to explore further guidance to improve regulators analysis and assessment of 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 30 425 changes or their impact on RBC or on our financial position. The respective appointed actuaries for each of our life insurance companies must each submit an opinion that our reserves, when considered in light of the assets we hold with respect to those reserves, make adequate provision for our contractual obligations and related expenses. undergone reexamination and revision in recent years, including in the following areas: Table of Contents Due to the ongoing nature of the NAIC s activities regarding RBC, we cannot determine the ultimate timing of the proposed Insurance Reserves and Regulatory Capital. State insurance laws require us to analyze the adequacy of our reserves annually. The reserving framework for certain of our products and the regulatory capital requirements applicable to our business have operational risks. Economic Scenario Generator ( ESG ). In 2017, the American Academy of Actuaries notified the NAIC that it did not have the resources to maintain its ESGs used in regulatory reserve and capital calculations. In 2020, the NAIC selected a third-party vendor to provide, maintain, and support the economic scenario generator prescribed for life and annuity statutory reserve and capital calculations. The NAIC is evaluating the vendor s economic scenarios and other modifications. We cannot predict what impact a new ESG may ultimately have on our businesses. Principle-Based Reserving for Life Insurance Products. In 2016, the NAIC adopted a principle-based reserving ( PBR ) approach for life insurance products. Principle-based reserving replaces the reserving methods for life insurance products for which the former formulaic basis for reserves may not accurately reflect the risks or costs of the liability or obligations of the insurer. The principle-based reserving approach had a three-year phase-in period. Principle-based reserving will not affect reserves for policies in force prior to January 1, 2017. The Company has introduced updated versions of its individual life products in conjunction with the requirement to adopt principle-based reserving by January 1, 2020. These updated products are currently priced to support the principle-based statutory reserve level without the need for reserve financing. Certain elements of the implementation of principle-based reserving are yet to be finalized by the NAIC and may have a material impact on statutory reserves. The Company continues to assess the impact of the implementation of principle-based reserving on projected statutory reserve levels, product pricing and the use of financing. Variable Annuities Framework for Change. In 2019, the NAIC adopted final revisions to the Valuation Manual (VM-21), Actuarial Guideline 43 ( AG 43 ), and risk-based capital instructions to implement a new variable annuity statutory framework for 2020. Changes include: (i) aligning economically-focused hedge assets with liability valuations (ii) eliminating the Standard Scenario and replacing it with the Standard Projection for AG 43 and C3 Phase II and (iii) standardizing capital market assumptions and aligning total asset requirements and reserves. There was no material impact to our target capital levels from the revised framework. The NAIC is considering further changes to the Valuation Manual for future years. New York Variable Annuity and Life Insurance Product Reserves. As a result of an agreement with the NY DFS regarding our reserving methodologies for certain variable annuity and life insurance products, certain of our New York licensed insurance subsidiaries hold additional statutory reserves on a New York basis, which reduces their New York statutory surplus. None of our U.S. operating insurance companies are domiciled in New York, and these changes do not impact statutory reserves reported in our insurance subsidiaries states of domicile, or any states other than New York, and therefore do not impact RBC ratios however, the agreed reserve methodologies may require us to increase our additional New York statutory reserves in the future. New York s version of PBR, which became effective in January 2020, allows for modifications to the NAIC valuation model and New York s modifications might require us to increase our New York statutory reserves. If we were required to establish material additional reserves on a New York statutory accounting basis or post material amounts of additional collateral with respect to annuity or insurance products, our ability to deploy capital held within our U.S. domestic insurance subsidiaries for other purposes could be affected. Principle-Based Reserving ( PBR ) for Non-Variable Annuities. The NAIC is developing a principle-based reserving framework for non-variable (fixed) annuity products in the accumulation and payout phases. We cannot predict what impact a new fixed annuity PBR framework may ultimately have on our businesses. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 31 425 Captive Reinsurance Companies. we consider to be non-economic for policies written prior to the implementation of principle-based reserving. See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Capital Financing Activities Term and Universal Life Reserve Financing for a discussion of our life product reserves and reserve financing. Market Conduct Regulation provisions governing the form and content of disclosure to consumers, illustrations, advertising, sales practices and complaint handling. State regulatory authorities generally enforce these provisions through periodic market conduct examinations. We have been subject to market conduct examinations relating to our marketplace activities, including with respect to the policies and procedures we use to locate guaranteed group annuity customers and establish related reserves. Market conduct examinations by state regulatory authorities have resulted and may in the future result in us increasing statutory reserves, changing operational processes and procedures, and could result in the imposition of fines or other discipline. Long-Term Care Rate Regulation with (1) developing a consistent national approach for reviewing long-term care insurance rates that result in actuarially appropriate increases being granted by the states in a timely manner and eliminates cross-state rate subsidization, and (2) ensuring consumers are provided with meaningful options to modify their contract benefits in situations where the premiums are no longer affordable due to rate increases. The task force has in turn established several workstreams regarding these and other related issues, including guaranty funds and reserving. We cannot predict whether this initiative will ultimately result in changes to the regulations applicable to our long-term care business, or how those changes will impact the Company. Table of Contents We use captive reinsurance subsidiaries to finance the portion of the statutory reserves for term and universal life policies that State insurance laws and regulations include numerous provisions governing the marketplace activities of insurers, including During 2019, the NAIC established a new Long-Term Care Insurance Task Force under the Executive Committee. It is charged Reinsurance. In 2019, the NAIC s Statutory Accounting Principles Working Group revised the statutory accounting rules regarding reinsurance credit with respect to the risk transfer requirements for group life yearly renewable term reinsurance agreements, effective January 1, 2021. The Company has amended the relevant applicable agreements such that the revisions will not have a material impact on the reinsurance credit we receive for yearly renewable term reinsurance, including in the group life insurance business. Yearly Renewable Term Reinsurance Reserve Credit. The NAIC s Life Actuarial Task Force is also evaluating changes to its Valuation Manual relating to yearly renewable term reinsurance. The NAIC adopted interim changes effective in 2020 that adversely impact statutory reserve credit for yearly renewable term reinsurance related to our individual life insurance products being reserved using a principle-based approach. Field testing has been conducted and discussions are currently underway to develop a long-term solution. We cannot predict what impact a long-term solution may ultimately have on our businesses. Credit for Reinsurance Model. During 2019, the NAIC approved revisions to the Credit for Reinsurance Model Law and Credit for Reinsurance Model Regulation to make the models consistent with the provisions of the U.S. s bilateral covered agreements with the European Union ( E.U. ) and the U.K. with respect to reinsurance collateral requirements. The revisions eliminate reinsurance collateral requirements applicable to E.U. and U.S. reinsurers meeting certain minimum requirements. The revisions also eliminate the requirements to maintain a local presence to do business in the E.U. or U.K. or post collateral in any E.U. jurisdiction or the U.K. The amended model law will become applicable to the Company as it is adopted by each domiciliary state. Each E.U. jurisdiction and the U.K. must also enact the provisions of the covered agreements into local law regulation. Surplus Notes. The NAIC s Statutory Accounting Principles Working Group is evaluating changes to the accounting rules regarding surplus notes with linked assets. These changes could result in the classification of the surplus notes as debt instead of surplus and require linked assets to be treated as non-admitted assets. These changes would materially adversely impact the statutory financial position of the Company s captive reinsurance subsidiaries that use credit-linked note structures to finance Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX reserves. Also, in May 2020, the NAIC adopted enhanced disclosures on surplus notes that became effective for year-end 2020 reporting. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 32 425 Data and Underwriting accelerated life insurance underwriting and is considering, if appropriate, drafting guidance for states. Insurance Guaranty Association Assessments assessed by state insurance guaranty associations for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Typically, states assess each member insurer in an amount related to the member insurer s proportionate share of the business written by all member insurers in the state. The majority of state guaranty association laws provide a tax offset for a percentage of the assessment against future years premium taxes. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we paid 1 million, 2 million and 2.3 million, respectively, in assessments pursuant to state insurance guaranty association laws. While we cannot predict the amount and timing of future assessments on our U.S. insurance companies under these laws, we have established estimated reserves totaling approximately 30 million as of December 31, 2020, for future assessments relating to insurance companies that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings, including Penn Treaty Network America Insurance Company, Executive Life of California and Lincoln Memorial Life Insurance Company. relating to long-term care insurance-related insolvencies. The amendments will spread costs from future long-term care insurance- related insolvencies across the entire health and life insurance industry, resulting in increased assessments for life insurers. The amended model law will become applicable to us as it is adopted by each state. Prior insolvencies will not be included under these amendments. Given our current market share of the impacted lines of business, we expect our cost related to future insolvencies, net of premium tax offsets available under current state laws, would be a small percentage of the gross industry liability. U.S. Federal and State Securities Regulation Affecting Insurance Operations securities laws and may be required to be registered under the federal securities laws and subject to regulation by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ). Certain of our insurance subsidiaries are subject to SEC public reporting and disclosure requirements based on offerings of these products. Federal and some state securities regulation similar to that discussed below under U.S. Investment and Retirement Products and Investment Management Operations and U.S. Securities and Commodities Regulation affect investment advice, sales and related activities with respect to these products. meaning of state securities laws. As securities, these products are subject to filing and certain other requirements. Also, sales activities with respect to these products generally are subject to state securities regulation. Such regulation may affect investment advice, sales and related activities for these products. Federal Insurance Office appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury. While the FIO does not have general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the FIO director performs various functions with respect to insurance, including serving as a non-voting member of the Council, monitoring the insurance sector and representing the U.S. on prudential aspects of international insurance matters, including at the International Association of Insurance Supervisors ( IAIS ). U.S. Federal and State Health Insurance Plan Regulation the Affordable Care Act ), as well as state insurance laws, include numerous provisions governing the marketing and sale of health insurance plans. Congress from time to time considers health care reform that could decrease or increase the attractiveness of health insurance products sold by Assurance IQ, or have an unfavorable or favorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from sales of these products. In addition, the marketing and sale of Medicare Advantage products by Assurance IQ is subject to federal laws, regulations and guidelines issued by the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Other Consumer Protection Regulation Table of Contents During 2020, the NAIC Accelerated Underwriting Working Group evaluated insurers use of external data and data analytics in Each state has insurance guaranty association laws under which insurers doing business in the state are members and may be In 2017, the NAIC approved amendments to the Life and Health Insurance Guaranty Association Model Act to address issues Our variable life insurance, variable annuity and mutual fund products generally are securities within the meaning of federal Our mutual funds, and in certain states our variable life insurance and variable annuity products, are also securities within the Dodd-Frank established a Federal Insurance Office ( FIO ) within the Department of the Treasury headed by a director The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( PPACA ) and The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 33 425 products that are subject to a variety of federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations, including the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, and other laws and regulations enforced by the Federal Trade Commission, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, state Attorneys General, and or state Departments of Banking. International Insurance Regulation operate, including the Japanese Ministry of Finance and the Japanese FSA, the financial services regulator in Japan. In addition to Japan, we operate insurance companies in Argentina, Bermuda, Brazil, Mexico and Taiwan, and have insurance operations in China, India, Indonesia and Malaysia through joint ventures, and in Ghana through a strategic investment. The insurance regulatory bodies for these businesses typically oversee such issues as: (1) company licensing (2) the licensing of insurance sales staff (3) insurance product approvals (4) sales practices (5) claims payment practices (6) permissible investments (7) solvency and capital adequacy and (8) insurance reserves, among other items. In some jurisdictions, for certain products, regulators will also mandate premium rates (or components of pricing) or minimum guaranteed interest rates. Periodic examinations of insurance company books and records, financial reporting requirements, market conduct examinations and policy filing requirements are among the techniques used by these regulators to supervise our non-U.S. insurance businesses. Finally, insurance regulatory authorities in the various jurisdictions in which our insurance companies are domiciled, including Japan, must approve any change of control of Prudential Financial or the insurance companies organized under their laws. Solvency Regulation establish some form of minimum solvency requirements for insurance companies, similar in concept to the RBC ratios that are employed by U.S. insurance regulators. These solvency ratios are used by regulators to assess the sufficiency of an insurer s capital and claims-paying ability and include the impact of transactions with affiliated entities. Certain jurisdictions require the disclosure of solvency ratios to the public. Insurers that have lower solvency ratios than the regulators require are considered to have inadequate capital and are subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level of capital inadequacy. Solvency Margin Ratio framework ( SMR ). This standard prescribes the manner in which an insurance company s capital is calculated and is meant to respond to changes in financial markets, improve risk management practices of insurers and consider risks associated with the insurer s subsidiaries. The Japan FSA has in recent years asked insurance market participants to engage in a series of annual field tests of a new market based alternative to the SMR framework called the Economic Solvency Ratio (ESR) that follows the IAIS Risk-based Global Insurance Capital Standard ( ICS ), which is described below under Other International and Global Regulatory Initiatives. We anticipate that the ESR will be implemented by 2025 which aligns with the ICS timeline. The IAIS established 2020 2024 as the five-year monitoring period for observing how the ICS performs over an economic cycle. It is possible that adjustments to the ICS may be made during this time period. Therefore, the Company will conduct field tests for ICS while the Japan insurance operations will conduct field tests for ESR. Dividend Payment Limitations amount of dividends that our subsidiaries can pay to shareholders. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the ability of our international subsidiaries to pay dividends to Prudential Financial. Insurance Guaranty Fund Assessments their proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. As we cannot predict the timing of future assessments, they may materially affect the results of operations of our international insurance operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. Under the Japanese insurance guaranty law, all licensed life insurers in Japan are required to be members of and are assessed, on a pre-funded basis, by the Japan Policyholders Protection Corporation ( PPC ). These assessments generate a collective fund which is used to satisfy certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. The PPC assesses each member in Table of Contents Assurance IQ engages in certain marketing activities and sales of third-party insurance products and residential mortgage loan Our international insurance operations are principally supervised by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they In order to monitor insurers solvency, regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate outside the U.S. generally Japan Capital and Solvency Regulation. Our Japan insurance operations are currently subject to a capital standard known as the The insurance regulatory bodies in some of the countries where our international insurance businesses are located regulate the Certain of our international insurance operations, including those in Japan, may be subject to assessments, generally based on 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 34 425 an amount related to its proportionate share of new business written by all member insurers. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we paid approximately 24 million, 23 million and 22 million, respectively, based on fixed currency exchange rates, in assessments pursuant to Japanese insurance guaranty association laws. U.S. Investment and Retirement Products and Investment Management Operations other laws and regulations. The SEC, FINRA, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ( CFTC ), National Futures Association ( NFA ), state securities commissions, state banking and insurance departments, DOL and the Department of the Treasury are the principal U.S. regulators that regulate our retirement and investment management operations. In some cases, our domestic U.S. investment operations are also subject to non-U.S. securities laws and regulations. registered under the Securities Act, are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the shares of certain of these entities are qualified for sale in some states and the District of Columbia. Separate account investment products are also subject to state insurance regulation as described above. We also have several subsidiaries that are registered as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act ), as amended, and are subject to federal and state regulation. In addition, we have subsidiaries that are investment advisers registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. Our third-party advisors and licensed sales professionals within Prudential Advisors and other employees, insofar as they sell products that are securities, are subject to the Exchange Act and to examination requirements and regulation by the SEC, FINRA and state securities commissioners. Regulation and examination requirements also extend to various Prudential entities that employ or control those individuals. retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable or favorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. Over time, these changes could limit our sales of defined benefit and defined contribution pension products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide investment management, administrative, or other services conversely, these changes could also increase the attractiveness of certain products and services we offer in connection with such plans. SECURE Act is expected to help promote retirement plan coverage and increase retirement plan savings, as well as facilitate access to guaranteed lifetime income solutions. The Act addresses coverage issues by making it easier for small businesses to participate in pooled employer plans and requires coverage of certain long-term, part-time workers. The Act addresses savings issues by raising the cap on amounts contributed through auto-enrollment, increasing the maximum age for required minimum withdrawals to 72 and removing the age cap (70 1 2) for making IRA contributions. The Act also made it easier for employers to include guaranteed lifetime income as part of their plan by providing an annuity provider selection safe harbor, as well as providing for the portability of participant investments in annuity products. In addition, the SECURE Act included provisions that enable participants to withdraw, penalty-free, up to 5,000 for expenses attendant to the birth or adoption of a child and limit the ability of certain IRA beneficiaries to defer tax recognition of their inheritance beyond ten years. consideration by plan sponsors and providers therefore, it is difficult to assess its impact on our businesses at this time. ( CARES ) Act, which waived Required Minimum Distributions for 2020, increased the amount qualified individuals may borrow from defined contribution plans from 50,000 to 100,000, and allowed qualified individuals to withdraw from defined contribution plans and individual retirement arrangements up to 100,000 penalty-free through December 31, 2020, with the withdrawal taxed over a three-year period (unless otherwise elected by the individual). The CARES Act also permits the Company to suspend troubled debt restructuring ( TDR ) accounting under GAAP in certain circumstances for a period extending until December 31, 2021. 2021 ( CAA ). The CAA includes a provision that changes the floor interest rates used for Definition of Life Insurance ( DOLI ) testing under Section 7702 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code ), and Modified Endowment Contract ( MEC ) testing under Section 7702A of the Code. The change is intended to better reflect the current low interest rate environment and, for contracts issued on or after January 1, 2021, may increase the DOLI and MEC limits and Table of Contents Our retirement and investment products and services are subject to federal and state securities and fiduciary laws, ERISA, and Some of the separate account, mutual fund and other pooled investment products offered by our businesses, in addition to being Congress from time to time considers or enacts legislation that could decrease or increase the attractiveness of certain of our In December 2019, Congress enacted the Setting Every Community up for Retirement Enhancement ( SECURE ) Act. The Implementation of the SECURE Act provisions and the issuance of related regulatory guidance is still ongoing and under In March 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Congress enacted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security On December 27, 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Congress enacted the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 35 425 allow more premium payments relative to the death benefit. We are currently evaluating the impacts that this change will have on our products. U.S. Securities and Commodity Operations The SEC, the CFTC, state securities authorities, FINRA, the NFA, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and similar authorities are the principal regulators of these subsidiaries. including FINRA and the NFA. Self-regulatory organizations conduct examinations of, and have adopted rules governing, their members. In addition, state securities and certain other regulators have regulatory and oversight authority over our registered broker- dealers. Broker-dealers and their sales forces in the U.S. and in certain other jurisdictions are subject to regulations that cover many aspects of the securities business, including sales methods and trading practices. The regulations cover the suitability of investments for individual customers, use and safekeeping of customers funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping, financial reporting and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. The SEC, CFTC and other governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the U.S. and non-U.S. regulatory agencies, have the power to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension, termination or limitation of the activities of a broker-dealer, an investment adviser or commodities firm or its employees. Our U.S. registered broker- dealer subsidiaries are subject to federal net capital requirements that may limit the ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends to Prudential Financial. International Investment and Retirement Products and Investment Management Operations operate. We operate investment-related businesses in, among other jurisdictions, Japan, Taiwan, the U.K., Ireland, India, Hong Kong, Mexico, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, China and Singapore, and participate in investment-related joint ventures in Italy and China and a retirement related joint venture in Chile. These businesses may provide products such as investment management products and services, mutual funds, separately managed accounts and retirement products. The regulatory authorities for these businesses typically oversee such issues as: (1) company licensing (2) the licensing of investment product sales staff (3) sales practices (4) solvency and capital adequacy (5) mutual fund product approvals and related disclosures and (6) securities, commodities and related laws, among other items. In some cases, our international investment operations are also subject to U.S. securities laws and regulations. relation to existing laws and regulations which ended on December 31, 2020. The U.K. and E.U. have entered into a new trading relationship under the E.U.-U.K. Cooperation Agreement however, discussions in relation to financial services remain ongoing. The outcome of the negotiations will determine the ultimate impact of the exit on our operations and investments in those jurisdictions and may lead to volatility in currency exchange rates and asset prices, as well as changes in regulation. In the event the exit results in future restrictions on cross-border trade in financial services and products between the U.K. and the E.U., PGIM may incur additional expenses and operational burdens in order to ensure compliance with such restrictions. In anticipation of the exit, PGIM has implemented a number of steps to minimize disruption to its existing business, including forming new legal entities and securing licenses and permissions in certain E.U. countries, and engaging in client communications. Derivatives Regulation and equity market exposures. Dodd-Frank established a framework for regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets. This framework sets out requirements regarding the clearing and reporting of derivatives transactions, as well as collateral posting requirements for uncleared swaps. Affiliated swaps entered into between our subsidiaries are generally exempt from most of these requirements. comply with in 2021, and increased capital requirements for derivatives transactions that may be imposed on banks that are our counterparties. Additionally, the increased need to post cash collateral in connection with mandatorily cleared swaps may also require the liquidation of higher yielding assets for cash, resulting in a negative impact on investment income. Privacy and Cybersecurity Regulation We continue to monitor the potential hedging cost impacts of new initial margin requirements that we will be required to Table of Contents We have subsidiaries that are broker-dealers, investment advisers, commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisers. Our broker-dealer and commodities affiliates are members of, and are subject to regulation by, self-regulatory organizations, Our non-insurance international operations are supervised primarily by regulatory authorities in the countries in which they On January 31, 2020, the U.K. exited the E.U. following a non-binding referendum in June 2016, with a transition period in Prudential Financial and our subsidiaries use derivatives for various purposes, including hedging interest rate, foreign currency 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 36 425 and confidentiality of personal information, including health-related and customer information, and to notify their customers and other individuals of their policies and practices relating to the collection and disclosure of health-related and customer information. In addition, we must comply with international privacy laws, regulations, and directives concerning the cross border transfer or use of employee and customer personal information. These laws, regulations and directives also: its citizens. Compliance with such laws could result in higher technology, administrative and other costs for us and could affect how products and services are offered or require us to structure our businesses, operations and systems in less efficient ways. increase worldwide. Financial regulators in the U.S. and international jurisdictions in which we operate continue to focus on data privacy and cybersecurity, including in proposed rulemaking, and have communicated heightened expectations and have increased emphasis in this area in their examinations of regulated entities. For example, the E.U. s General Data Protection Regulation ( GDPR ), which became effective in May 2018, confers additional privacy rights on individuals in the E.U. and establishes significant penalties for violations. In addition, in the U.S., the Federal government has proposed a number of sweeping privacy laws. In California, the California Consumer Privacy Act became effective in 2020 and confers numerous privacy rights on individuals and corresponding obligations on businesses. Additional rights and obligations will be imposed by the California Privacy Rights Act, which we expect to largely become effective in 2023. Internationally, a number of countries such as Brazil and Argentina have enacted or are considering enacting GDPR-like regulations. establish a cybersecurity program and includes specific technical safeguards as well as requirements regarding governance, incident planning, data management, system testing, vendor oversight and regulator notification. The NY DFS adopted a similar regulation effective March 2017 and other states have either implemented the Model Law or are anticipated to implement it in the near future. costs and regulatory requirements. In order to respond to the threat of security breaches and cyber-attacks, we have developed a program overseen by the Chief Information Security Officer and the Information Security Office that is designed to protect and preserve the confidentiality, integrity, and continued availability of all information owned by, or in the care of the Company. As part of this program, we also maintain an incident response plan. The program provides for the coordination of various corporate functions and governance groups and serves as a framework for the execution of responsibilities across businesses and operational roles. The program establishes security standards for our technological resources and includes training for employees, contractors and third parties. As part of the program, we conduct periodic exercises and a response readiness assessment with outside advisors to gain a third-party independent assessment of our technical program and our internal response preparedness. We regularly engage with the outside security community and monitor cyber threat information. Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Bribery Laws promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. In addition, under current U.S. law and regulations we may be prohibited from dealing with certain individuals or entities in certain circumstances and we may be required to monitor customer activities, which may affect our ability to attract and retain customers. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to provide additional protections regarding the use and disclosure of certain information such as national identifier numbers (e.g., social security numbers) require notice to affected individuals, regulators and others if there is a breach of the security of certain personal information require financial institutions and creditors to implement effective programs to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft regulate the process by which financial institutions make telemarketing calls and send e-mail, text, or fax messages to consumers and customers require oversight of third parties that have access to, and handle, personal information and prescribe the permissible uses of certain personal information, including customer information and consumer report information. Table of Contents We are subject to laws, regulations and directives that require financial institutions and other businesses to protect the security Some countries have also instituted laws requiring in-country data processing and or in-country storage of the personal data of Regulatory and legislative activity in the areas of privacy, data protection and information and cybersecurity continues to In October 2017, the NAIC adopted the Insurance Data Security Model Law. The model law requires that insurance companies The Company is monitoring regulatory guidance and rulemaking in these areas, and may be subject to increased compliance Our businesses are subject to various anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and regulations that seek to 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 37 425 corrupt and illegal payments to government officials and others, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. s Anti-Bribery Law. The obligation of financial institutions, including the Company, to identify their clients, to monitor for and report suspicious transactions, to monitor dealings with government officials, to respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and to share information with other financial institutions, has required the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls. Environmental Laws and Regulations owning and operating real property are the risks of hidden environmental liabilities and the costs of any required clean-up. Although unexpected environmental liabilities can always arise, we seek to minimize this risk by undertaking environmental assessments, among other measures prior to taking title to real estate. Unclaimed Property Laws escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned funds, and we are subject to audit and examination for compliance with these requirements. For additional discussion of these matters, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Taxation U.S. Taxation companies and non-life insurance companies. Certain other domestic subsidiaries file separate tax returns. The principal differences between the Company s actual income tax expense and the applicable statutory federal income tax rate are generally deductions for non-taxable investment income, including the Dividends Received Deduction ( DRD ), foreign taxes applied at a different tax rate than the U.S. rate and certain tax credits. For tax years prior to 2018, the applicable statutory federal income tax rate was 35%. For tax years starting in 2018, the applicable statutory federal income tax rate is 21%. A future increase in the applicable statutory federal income tax rate above 21% would adversely impact the Company s tax position. In addition, as discussed further below, the tax attributes of our products may impact both the Company s and our customers tax positions. See Income Taxes in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company s tax position. As discussed further below, new tax legislation and other potential changes to the tax law may impact the Company s tax position and the attractiveness of our products. 2017 changed the taxation of businesses and individuals by lowering tax rates and broadening the tax base through the acceleration of taxable income and the deferral or elimination of certain deductions, as well as changing the system of taxation of earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The most significant changes for the Company were: (1) the reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% (2) revised methodologies for determining deductions for tax reserves and the DRD (3) an increased capitalization and amortization period for acquisition costs related to certain products and (4) the change from a worldwide deferred taxation system to a modified territorial system of taxation on applicable earnings of foreign subsidiaries, which includes (a) a new tax on earnings of foreign subsidiaries (the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income ( GILTI ) provision ) and (b) a new alternative tax with respect to payments to non-U.S. affiliates that are at least 25% owned (the Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax ( BEAT )). tangible assets of consolidated foreign subsidiaries by imposing the U.S. tax rate to 50% of earnings of such foreign affiliates and provides for a partial foreign tax credit for foreign income taxes. The amount of tax in any period on GILTI can depend on annual differences between U.S. taxable income recognition rules and taxable income recognition rules in the country of operations and the overall taxable income of U.S. operations, as well as U.S. expense allocation rules which limit the amount of foreign tax credits that can be applied to reduce the U.S. tax on the GILTI. Under certain circumstances, the taxable income of U.S. operations may cause more than 50% of earnings of foreign affiliates to be subject to the GILTI provision. In years that the U.S. consolidated PFI group incurs a net operating loss or has a loss from domestic businesses, the GILTI provision would operate to cause a loss of U.S. tax benefits for some or all of those losses, effectively increasing the tax on foreign earnings. deductible payments from U.S. companies to foreign affiliates that are at least 25% owned exceed 3% of total U.S. tax Table of Contents Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations apply to our ownership and operation of real property. Inherent in We are subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions concerning the identification, reporting and The Company and certain domestic subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return that includes both life insurance The Tax Act of 2017 was enacted into law on December 22, 2017 and was generally effective starting in 2018. The Tax Act of The GILTI provision applies a minimum U.S. tax to earnings of foreign subsidiaries in excess of a 10% deemed return on The BEAT provision could, under certain conditions, increase our tax expense. The BEAT is an alternative tax implicated if tax 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 38 425 deductions. If implicated, the BEAT taxes modified taxable income at a rate of 10% in 2019, increasing to 12.5% in 2026 and is due if the calculated BEAT tax amount that is determined without the benefit of foreign and certain other tax credits is greater than the regular corporate tax in any given year. In general, modified taxable income is calculated by adding back to a taxpayer s regular taxable income the amount of certain base erosion tax benefits with respect to payments to foreign affiliates, as well as the base erosion percentage of any net operating loss deductions. Proposed and Final Regulations on a number of provisions within or impacted by the Tax Act of 2017, including GILTI, foreign tax credits, net interest deductibility and the BEAT. Regulations were issued making it clear that benefit and claim payments made by our U.S. insurance businesses to our foreign affiliates on reinsurance assumed by the U.S. affiliates should not be considered to be base erosion payments. During 2020, regulations were issued that allow taxpayers to elect to exclude income of foreign subsidiaries from being subject to tax under the GILTI provision if the income of the foreign subsidiary is subject to local tax in excess of 18.9%. Other life insurance and financial services companies may benefit more or less from these tax law changes, which could impact the Company s overall competitive position. Notwithstanding the enactment of the Tax Act of 2017, the President, and Congress, as well as state and local governments, may continue to consider from time to time legislation that could increase the amount of corporate taxes we pay, thereby reducing earnings. election ) to subject earnings from certain insurance operations to tax in the U.S. in the tax year earned, net of related foreign tax credits. The Company made the 952 election effective for the 2017 and later tax years with respect to its affiliates incorporated in Brazil. In October 2019, the IRS issued a legal memorandum applicable to all taxpayers in which the IRS argues that the election became inoperable in 1998. The Company disagrees with the IRS s position and intends to defend its position. If the Company is ultimately not successful, it will not be able to claim a U.S. tax credit for the Brazil taxes in excess of the U.S. tax rate, and thus will have a higher tax expense over time. For additional information on the 952 Election, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. intend to operate in a manner that will not cause any to be treated as being engaged in a trade or business within the U.S. or subject to current U.S. federal income taxation on their net income. However, because there is uncertainty as to when a foreign corporation is engaged in a trade or business within the United States, as the determination is highly factual and must be made annually, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert that a non-U.S. Company is engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. If a non-U.S. Company were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., it could be subject to U.S. federal income taxation and possible state taxation on a net basis on its income that is effectively connected with such U.S. trade or business (including branch profits tax on the portion of its earnings and profits that is attributable to such income). Any such taxation could result in substantial tax liabilities. annuities and life insurance products until there is a contract distribution and, in general, excludes from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance contract. The Tax Act of 2017 did not change these rules, though it is possible that some individuals with overall lower effective tax rates could be less attracted to the tax deferral aspect of the Company s products. The general reduction in individual tax rates and elimination of certain individual deductions may also impact the Company, depending on whether current and potential customers have more or less after-tax income to save for retirement and manage their mortality and longevity risk through the purchase of the Company s products. Congress from time to time may enact other changes to the tax law that could make our products less attractive to consumers, including legislation that would modify the tax favored treatment of retirement savings, life insurance and annuities products. Changes in either the U.S. or foreign tax laws may negatively impact the deductions and credits available to the Company, including the ability of the Company to claim foreign tax credits with respect to taxes withheld on our investments supporting separate account products. These changes would increase the Company s actual tax expense and reduce its consolidated net income. taxable income, which is taken into consideration when pricing products and is a component of our capital management strategies. Accordingly, changes in tax law, our ability to generate taxable income, or other factors impacting the availability or value of the tax characteristics generated by our products, could impact product pricing, increase our tax expense or require us to reduce our sales of these products or implement other actions that could be disruptive to our businesses. Table of Contents Since the enactment of the Tax Act of 2017, the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) promulgated The U.S. federal tax law provides that an election may be made pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 952 (the 952 The Company has a number of subsidiaries incorporated under the laws of non-U.S. jurisdictions. Those non-U.S. subsidiaries U.S. federal tax law generally permits tax deferral on the inside build-up of investment value of certain retirement savings, The products we sell have different tax characteristics and, in some cases, generate tax deductions and credits for the Company. The profitability of certain products is significantly dependent on these characteristics and our ability to continue to generate In March 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Congress enacted the CARES Act. One provision of the CARES 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 39 425 Act amends the Tax Act of 2017 and allows companies with net operating losses ( NOLs ) originating in 2018, 2019 or 2020 to carry back those losses for up to five years. See Income Taxes in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. International Taxation which they operate. Foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could impact the amount of taxes that we pay or impact the sales of our products. For example, the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development ( OECD ) continues to study model global base erosion tax options that may be considered and adopted by foreign governments. Among the possible recommendations being considered by the OECD is a global minimum tax and the disallowance of a tax deduction for certain payments made to affiliates. Such changes could negatively impact sales of our products or reduce our profits if those items are adopted by countries in which our international businesses operate. income taxes that are applied to our income earned in Japan. The Japanese consumption tax rate was increased from 8% to 10% on October 1, 2019. Insurance commissions paid to our Life Planners and Life Consultants are subject to consumption tax for individuals exceeding certain earnings thresholds however, the tax is not charged on employee compensation (other than commissions) or insurance premiums. corporate insurance products. For information on sales of corporate insurance products within our international insurance operations, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations by Segment International Businesses. International and Global Regulatory Initiatives avoid future financial crises. In many respects, this work is being led by the Financial Stability Board ( FSB ), which consists of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 nations. The G20, the FSB and related bodies have developed proposals to address such issues as financial group supervision, capital and solvency standards, systemic economic risk, corporate governance including executive compensation, and a host of related issues. ( G-SII ) through a quantitative methodology developed and implemented by the IAIS. We remained designated as a G-SII until November 2018, at which point the FSB announced that it would not engage in an identification of G-SIIs based on the IAIS progress with development of the Holistic Framework for Systemic Risk in the Insurance Sector ( Holistic Framework ). The Holistic Framework, which was adopted by the IAIS in November 2019, focuses on employing an Activities Based approach ( ABA ) to assessing and managing potential sources of systemic risk through enhancements to IAIS policy measures pertaining to macroprudential surveillance, enterprise risk management, liquidity management, crisis management and recovery planning. In addition to the ABA elements, the Holistic Framework preserves the IAIS annual data collection and monitoring process. Upon the IAIS adoption of the Holistic Framework, the FSB announced that it has suspended the annual identification of G-SIIs until November 2022, when it will review the need to either discontinue or re-establish the annual process based on the initial years of implementation of the Holistic Framework. Internationally Active Insurance Groups ( ComFrame ). Through ComFrame, the IAIS seeks to promote effective and globally consistent supervision of the insurance industry through uniform standards for insurer corporate governance, enterprise risk management and other control functions, group-wide supervision and group capital adequacy. The non-capital related components of ComFrame were adopted by the IAIS in November 2019. The ICS, which is the capital adequacy component of ComFrame, entered a five-year monitoring phase beginning in 2020. During the monitoring phase, IAIGs are encouraged to report ICS results to their group supervisory authorities to support the IAIS efforts to obtain feedback on the appropriateness of the framework. The IAIS will use input from supervisory authorities and IAIGs as well as stakeholder feedback on a public consultation and the results of an economic impact assessment to further improve the ICS. The IAIS is scheduled to adopt a final version of the ICS, which it expects its member supervisory authorities to implement, in 2025. measures it develops, including the ICS and proposed policy measures within the Holistic Framework. However, we could become subject to these policy measures if they were adopted by either our group supervisor or supervisors of our Table of Contents Our international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are organized and in The Japan national corporate tax rate is 23.2% for tax years beginning on or after April 1, 2018. In addition, there are local In July 2019, the Japan National Tax Authority issued rules limiting policyholders tax deductions for premiums paid on certain In addition to the adoption of Dodd-Frank in the United States, lawmakers around the world are actively exploring steps to In July 2013, we, along with eight other global insurers, were designated by the FSB as a global systemically important insurer In addition to its post financial crisis work on systemic risk, the IAIS developed the Common Framework for the Supervision of As a standard setting body, the IAIS does not have direct authority to require insurance companies to comply with the policy 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 40 425 international operations or companies, which could impact the manner in which we deploy our capital, structure and manage our businesses, and otherwise operate both within the U.S. and abroad. Regulatory Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic economic stimulus to taxpayers, small businesses, and corporations through various grant and loan programs, tax provisions and regulatory relief. for more information about how specific provisions of the CARES Act impact our business. considering, a number of actions in response to the crisis, including delaying implementation of certain regulatory changes, temporarily waiving certain regulatory requirements and requiring or requesting insurers to waive premium payments and policy provisions and exclusions for certain periods of time. We do not know whether such changes will be temporary or permanent and we cannot predict what other actions governments will take in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and how any new laws, regulations, or state-sponsored programs may impact our business. (1) Presented on a full-time equivalent basis. Excludes independent contractors and other individuals classified as non-employees in their respective jurisdictions. responsibility for our human capital resources, diversity and inclusion practices and corporate culture. Human capital is discussed by management at every Board meeting and, at least once per year, the Board devotes time to discuss human capital at each business and functional leadership level across the Company. Attracting Employees aim to attract individuals who share our commitment to creating accessible financial solutions that meet the long-term objectives of our global customers. Building a diverse and inclusive organization is a component of our strategic business initiative. Developing Employees training opportunities for all employees along the career spectrum, such as: Region Number of Employees(1) U.S. 16,196 Non-U.S. 25,475 Total 41,671 Job Function Women People of Color Executive 35 % 24 % Management 48 % 31 % Non-management 64 % 37 % Total 50 % 32 % Table of Contents In March 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Congress enacted the CARES Act, which provides 2 trillion in See U.S. Investment and Retirement Products and Investment Management Operations and Taxation - U.S. Taxation above Other governments and regulators, including the Japan FSA, the NAIC and state insurance regulators, have implemented, or are As of December 31, 2020, our employee population was comprised as set forth in the tables below: Prudential s Board of Directors, including its Corporate Governance and Business Ethics Committee, has oversight We believe that our success depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented, skilled, and motivated employees. We Cultivating talent is a Company-wide priority. Our employee resources foster career development and offer learning and Human Capital Resources Global Employee Profile U.S. Employee Profile 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 41 425 bias, building cultural intelligence, and using tools and techniques to support an inclusive culture. The goal of these training programs is for all employees to develop a baseline understanding of these concepts, which we expect will better equip us to solve the financial challenges of our increasingly diverse customers. Retaining Employees throughout our employees careers, and our inclusive culture will enhance our ability to retain employees. feedback addressing our culture, management, career opportunities, compensation and benefits. The results of the EQ Survey influence how we strengthen our culture and implement change within the Company. In 2020, over 83% of our global employees responded to the EQ Survey. transitioned more than 97% of our U.S. workforce to remote working in a matter of days. Prudential continues to address the challenges our employees and their families face in maintaining balance and well-being during the ongoing pandemic. Diversity and Inclusion at Prudential management starts with our Board of Directors. Our Board embodies diversity: 82 percent of Prudential s independent directors are diverse. Our commitment to advance racial equity spans our talent practices, how we design and deliver our products, our investments and public policy work, and our support of community institutions. modifier for employees at the senior vice president level and above that is subject to a performance objective intended to improve the representation of diversity among senior management over the 2018 through 2020 performance period. We will report the results of this program in our 2021 proxy statement. proxy statements and other information may be obtained through the SEC s website (www.sec.gov). on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those Forms) online at www.investor.prudential.com. Copies of any documents on our website are available without charge, and reports filed with or furnished to the SEC will be available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. were as follows: Table of Contents Also, we require U.S. employees to attend training programs addressing core issues such as understanding racism and everyday We believe that our rigorous talent acquisition process, provision of opportunities for professional enrichment and advancement Prudential conducts a global employee engagement survey, entitled the EQ Survey . The EQ Survey solicits employee Protecting and supporting our employees is a priority at Prudential. At the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we quickly We view inclusion, diversity and racial equity as a moral and business imperative. Our inclusive approach to human capital To reinforce our commitment to diversity and inclusion in practice, in 2018, we instituted a long-term incentive compensation Prudential Financial files periodic and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, You may also access our press releases, financial information and reports filed with the SEC (for example, our Annual Report The names of the executive officers of Prudential Financial and their respective ages and positions, as of February 19, 2021, Our Skills Accelerator, a personalized platform that helps employees discover and develop future skills, explore new opportunities, and build a successful career at Prudential and Our Leadership Essentials program that is designed to support leaders in building the skills needed to transition into and function effectively in a leadership role, enhance the impact of those currently in such roles, and enable notable increases in employee performance. Information About our Executive Officers Available Information 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 42 425 Director of Prudential Financial and PICA in December 2018. Previously, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, International Businesses, of Prudential Financial and PICA from March 2014 to November 2018. He served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, U.S. Businesses, of Prudential Financial and PICA from February 2011 to March 2014. He also served as Chief Executive Officer and President of Prudential Investment Management, Inc. from January 2008 to February 2011, and as Chief Executive Officer of Prudential Real Estate Investors ( PREI ) (now known as PGIM Real Estate), our real estate investment management and advisory business from February 2002 to January 2008. He joined the Company in March 2001, after serving as a managing director and Head of the Americas for J.P. Morgan s Real Estate and Lodging Investment Banking group, where he began his investment banking career in 1988. He also spent four years as a managing partner of an architecture and development firm he founded in New York City. Financial and PICA since December 2018. Previously, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Prudential Financial and PICA from March 2013 to November 2018. Mr. Falzon has been with Prudential since 1983, serving in various positions. He served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Prudential Financial and PICA from 2010 to 2013. Previously he had been a managing director at PREI, Head of PREI s Global Merchant Banking Group and Chief Executive Officer of its European business a managing director at Prudential Securities and regional vice president at Prudential Capital Group (now known as PGIM Private Capital). 2020. She served as Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Head of External Affairs from 2015 to 2020. She had served in various supervisory positions since 2009, including Deputy General Counsel and Head of External Affairs from 2014 to 2015, Chief Legal Officer for Litigation and Regulation from 2012 to 2014 and Chief Legal Officer for Corporate Services from 2009 to 2012. Prior to joining Prudential in 2009, she was a Partner at Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr, General Counsel at Fannie Mae, and a Litigation Partner at Jenner & Block. She started her career as a Judicial Law Clerk at the U.S. Supreme Court and the U.S. Court of Appeals, D.C. Circuit. December 2018. Prior to this role, he was Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Prudential Financial and PICA from March 2013 to November 2018. In 2013, he served as Chief Financial Officer of Prudential s International Businesses. Previously, he was Senior Financial Officer of Prudential Annuities and was Prudential s business representative for its retail brokerage joint venture with Wachovia Securities from 2003 through 2009. He also served as Vice President of Finance for Prudential s asset management business and held various positions with Prudential Securities Private Client and Debt Capital Markets Groups. Mr. Tanji joined Prudential in 1988. in December 2018. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of PICA and Prudential Financial. Mr. Sleyster has been with Prudential since 1987, serving in a variety of positions, including Head of Prudential s Full Service Retirement business, President of Prudential s Guaranteed Products business, Chief Financial Officer for Prudential s Employee Benefits Division, and has held roles in Prudential s Treasury, Derivatives and Investment Management units. Charles F. Lowrey 63 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President None Robert M. Falzon 61 Vice Chair None Ann M. Kappler 63 Executive Vice President and General Counsel None Kenneth Y. Tanji 54 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer None Scott G. Sleyster 61 Executive Vice President and Head of International Businesses None Andrew F. Sullivan 50 Executive Vice President and Head of U.S. Businesses None Lucien A. Alziari 61 Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer None Stacey Goodman 58 Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer None Candace J. Woods 60 Senior Vice President and Chief Actuary None Nicholas C. Silitch 59 Senior Vice President and Chief Risk Officer None Timothy L. Schmidt 62 Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer None Table of Contents Charles F. Lowrey was elected Chairman of Prudential Financial in April 2019 and Chief Executive Officer, President and Robert M. Falzon was elected Director of Prudential Financial in August 2019 and has served as Vice Chair of Prudential Ann M. Kappler was elected Executive Vice President and General Counsel for Prudential Financial and PICA in September Kenneth Y. Tanji was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Prudential Financial and PICA in Scott G. Sleyster was elected Executive Vice President and Head of International Businesses of Prudential Financial and PICA Biographical information about Prudential Financial s executive officers is as follows: Name Age Title Other Public Directorships 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 43 425 served as CEO of Prudential s Workplace Solutions Group, which consists of Prudential Retirement and Prudential Group Insurance. Before joining Prudential in 2011, he served as Senior Vice President at CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield. Previously, he spent eight years at Cigna where he held of a number of senior leadership positions. He also held management roles at Diamond Technology Partners and DaimlerChrysler. in June 2017, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer for Prudential Financial and PICA. From 2012 to 2017, Mr. Alziari served as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of A.P. Moller-Maersk. From 2004 to 2012, he was the Chief Human Resources Officer and Head of Corporate Responsibility for Avon Products, Inc. Prior to Avon Products, Inc., Mr. Alziari held roles with Mars Confectionary in the United Kingdom and PepsiCo Inc. in New York, Vienna and Dubai. Insurance in July 2019. Previously, she served as the Chief Information Officer at Freddie Mac, where she was responsible for the technology division, and served as a member of the Senior Operating Committee. Prior to Freddie Mac, Ms. Goodman was Executive Vice President and Chief Information and Operations Officer for CIT Group, Inc., where she was a member of the Executive Management Committee. Previously, Ms. Goodman was the Divisional Chief Information Officer of Global Technology and Operations at Bank of America. She also held global leadership positions at UBS and PaineWebber. Ms. Goodman began her career at Salomon Brothers. Prior to her current role, Ms. Woods served as Vice President and Chief Actuary for the Actuarial Center of Excellence within PICA. Also, Ms. Woods served as Vice President and Actuary from 2012 to 2013 and Vice President and Chief Actuary from 2013 to 2017 for Prudential s International Businesses. From 2010 to 2012, Ms. Woods was Vice President and Actuary in Corporate Actuarial, and the appointed actuary for Pruco Life Insurance Company and Pruco Reinsurance. Ms. Woods joined Prudential in 1982. He is Chairman of the organization s Enterprise Risk Committee and is a member of Prudential s Senior Management Council. He joined Prudential in 2010 as Chief Credit Officer and Head of Investment Risk Management. Prior to joining Prudential, Mr. Silitch held the position of Chief Risk Officer of the Alternative Investment Services, Broker Dealer Services and Pershing businesses within Bank of New York Mellon. December 2018. He chairs the Senior Asset Liability Committee and serves as Prudential s representative to the Institute of International Finance s Committee on Asset and Investment Management. Previously, Mr. Schmidt was the Head of Global Portfolio Management for Prudential from 2012 to 2018 and he was responsible for the overall asset liability management for Prudential s Retirement and Group Insurance businesses from 2010 to 2012. Prior to joining Prudential in July 2010, he served as Chief Financial Officer for MetLife s Individual Business and had headed MetLife s Wealth Strategy Group. Earlier in his 25-year tenure at MetLife, Schmidt held various positions in the investment organization, including Head of MetLife s Portfolio Management Unit, as well as its Structured Finance and Government Securities unit. include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under Forward-Looking Statements above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Many of these risks are interrelated and could occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. Such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Overview The Company has categorized its risks into tactical and strategic risks. Tactical risks may cause damage to the Company, and the Company seeks to manage and mitigate them through models, metrics and the overall risk framework. The Company s tactical risks include investment, insurance, market, liquidity, and operational risk. Strategic risks can cause the Company s fundamental business model to change, either through a shift in the businesses in which it is engaged or a change in execution. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Table of Contents Andrew F. Sullivan was elected Executive Vice President and Head of U.S. Businesses in December 2019. Previously, he Lucien A. Alziari is Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer for Prudential Financial and PICA. Starting Stacey Goodman was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Prudential Financial and Prudential Candace J. Woods was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Actuary of Prudential Financial and PICA in November 2017. Nicholas C. Silitch was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Prudential Financial and PICA in May 2012. Timothy L. Schmidt was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of Prudential Financial and PICA in You should carefully consider the following risks. These risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject The Company s risk management framework documents the definition, potential manifestation, and management of its risks. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 44 425 The Company s strategic risks include regulatory and technological changes and other external factors. These risks, as well as the sub-risks that may impact the Company, are discussed below. The Company s risk management framework is described under Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Risk Management. Investment Risk securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity securities and alternative assets including private equity, hedge funds and real estate. For a discussion of our general account investments, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations General Account Investments. We are also exposed to investment risk through a potential counterparty default. individual market sectors or a lack of buyers in the marketplace, (3) volatility, (4) credit spread changes, (5) benchmark interest rate changes, (6) changes in foreign currency exchange rates and (7) declines in value of underlying collateral. These factors may impact the credit quality, liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in higher capital charges and unrealized or realized losses. Also, certain investments we hold, regardless of market conditions, are relatively illiquid and our ability to promptly sell these assets for their full value may be limited. Additionally, our valuation of investments may include methodologies, inputs and assumptions which are subject to change and different interpretation and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially impact our results of operations or financial condition. For information about the valuation of our investments, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. meet its contractual payment obligations on its fixed maturity security, loan or other obligations. Credit risk may manifest in an idiosyncratic manner (i.e., specific to an individual borrower or industry) or through market-wide credit cycles. Financial deterioration of the obligor increases the risk of default and may increase the capital charges required under such regimes as the NAIC RBC, the FSA SMR or other constructs to hold the investment and in turn, potentially limit our overall capital flexibility. Credit defaults (as well as credit impairments, realized losses on credit-related sales, and increases in credit related reserves) may result in losses which adversely impact earnings, capital and our ability to appropriately match our liabilities and meet future obligations. obligations. Investment risk is heightened in these markets, in particular for obligations that are not denominated in the local currency. deteriorate in creditworthiness before or at the final settlement of a transaction. In the normal course of business, we enter into financial contracts to manage risks (such as derivatives to manage market risk and reinsurance treaties to manage insurance risk), improve the return on investments (such as securities lending and repurchase transactions) and provide sources of liquidity or financing (such as credit agreements, securities lending agreements and repurchase agreements). These transactions expose the Company to counterparty risk. Counterparties include commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers and insurance and reinsurance companies. In the event of a counterparty deterioration or default, the magnitude of the losses will depend on then current market conditions and the length of time required to enter into a replacement transaction with a new counterparty. Losses are likely to be higher under stressed conditions. equity or alternative assets. We include public equity and alternative assets (including private equity, hedge funds and real estate) in our portfolio constructions, as these asset classes can provide returns over longer periods of time, aligning with the long-term nature of certain of our liabilities. Public equity and alternative assets have varying degrees of price transparency. Equities traded on stock exchanges (public equities) have significant price transparency, as transactions are often required to be disclosed publicly. Assets for which price transparency is more opaque include private equity (joint ventures limited partnerships) and direct real estate. As these investments typically do not trade on public markets and indications of realizable market value may not be readily available, valuations can be infrequent and or more volatile. A sustained decline in public equity and alternative markets may reduce the returns earned by our investment portfolio through lower than expected dividend income, property operating income, and capital gains, thereby adversely impacting earnings, capital, and product pricing assumptions. These assets may also produce volatility in earnings as a result of uneven distributions on the underlying investments. Table of Contents Our investment portfolios are subject to the risk of loss due to default or deterioration in credit quality or value. We are exposed to investment risk through our investments, which primarily consist of public and private fixed maturity Investment risk may result from (1) economic conditions, (2) adverse capital market conditions, including disruptions in Our investment portfolio is subject to credit risk, which is the risk that an obligor (or guarantor) is unable or unwilling to Some of our insurance operations are in emerging markets where we may be required to hold capital in local sovereign Our Company is subject to counterparty risk, which is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction could default or Our investment portfolio is subject to equity risk, which is the risk of loss due to deterioration in market value of public 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 45 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 46 425 impact on the global economy has increased and may continue to increase the risk of loss on our investments due to default or deterioration in credit quality or value as described further under Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations General Account Investments COVID-19. Insurance Risk actual experience deviates adversely from our insurance assumptions, including mortality, morbidity, and policyholder behavior assumptions. against a variety of financial uncertainties. Our insurance products protect customers against their potential risk of loss by transferring those risks to the Company, where those risks can be managed more efficiently through pooling and diversification over a larger number of independent exposures. During this transfer process, we assume the risk that actual losses experienced in our insurance products deviates significantly from what we expect. More specifically, insurance risk is concerned with the deviations that impact our future liabilities. Our profitability may decline if mortality experience, morbidity experience or policyholder behavior experience differ significantly from our expectations when we price our products. In addition, if we experience higher than expected claims our liquidity position may be adversely impacted, and we may incur losses on investments if we are required to sell assets in order to pay claims. If it is necessary to sell assets at a loss, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. For a discussion of the impact of changes in insurance assumptions on our financial condition, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Accounting Policies and Pronouncements Application of Critical Accounting Estimates Insurance Liabilities. adversely from our expectations. Mortality risk is a biometric risk that can manifest in the following ways: strategies, however, may not be fully effective and may lead to payments to counterparties in excess of recoveries depending on how actual mortality experience emerges and on future changes in the level of premiums we pay to reinsurers. We may also benefit from offsetting impacts between our mortality and longevity products in adverse mortality or longevity scenarios, however the extent of this offset may vary. experience deviates adversely from what is expected. Morbidity risk is a biometric risk that can manifest in the following ways: Table of Contents The COVID-19 pandemic has increased and may continue to increase investment risk. The COVID-19 pandemic and its We have significant liabilities for policyholders benefits which are subject to insurance risk. Insurance risk is the risk that We provide a variety of insurance products, on both an individual and group basis, that are designed to help customers protect Certain of our insurance products are subject to mortality risk, which is the risk that actual deaths experienced deviate We use a variety of strategies to manage our mortality risks, including the use of reinsurance and derivative instruments. These Certain of our insurance products are subject to morbidity risk, which is the risk that either incidence or continuation Mortality calamity is the risk that mortality rates in a single year deviate adversely from what is expected as the result of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, as discussed below, natural or man-made disasters, military actions or terrorism. A mortality calamity event will reduce our earnings and capital and we may be forced to liquidate assets before maturity in order to pay the excess claims. Mortality calamity risk is more pronounced in respect of specific geographic areas (including major metropolitan centers, where we have concentrations of customers, including under group and individual life insurance), concentrations of employees or significant operations, and in respect of countries and regions in which we operate that are subject to a greater potential threat of military action or conflict. Ultimate losses would depend on several factors, including the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured population, the collectability of reinsurance, the possible macroeconomic effects on our investment portfolio, the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies and other variables. Mortality trend is the risk that mortality improvements in the future deviate adversely from what is expected. Mortality trend is a long-term risk in that it can emerge gradually over time. Longevity products, such as annuities, pension risk transfer and long-term care, may experience adverse impacts due to higher-than-expected mortality improvement. Mortality products, such as life insurance, experience adverse impacts due to lower-than-expected mortality improvement. If this risk were to emerge, the Company would update assumptions used to calculate reserves for in- force business, which may result in additional assets needed to meet the higher expected annuity claims or earlier expected life claims. An increase in reserves due to revised assumptions has an immediate impact on our results of operations and financial condition however, economically the impact is generally long term as the excess outflow is paid over time. Mortality base is the risk that actual base mortality deviates adversely from what is expected in pricing and valuing our products. Base mortality risk can arise from a lack of credible data on which to base the assumptions. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 47 425 impact on our results of operations and financial condition however, economically the impact of morbidity risk for products that pay out for ongoing illness or disability generally emerges over the longer term as the morbidity claims are paid. behavior deviates adversely from what is expected. Policyholder behavior risk includes the following components: Although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability or may cause the policies or contracts to lapse. For example, for our long-term care insurance products, our assumptions for reserves for future policy benefits have factored in an estimate of the timing and amount of anticipated and yet-to-be-filed premium rate increases which will require state approval. Our actual experience obtaining pricing increases could be materially different than what we have assumed, resulting in further policy liability increases which could be material. Many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. Even if permitted under the policy or contract, we may not be able or willing to raise premiums or adjust other charges sufficiently, or at all. Accordingly, significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. Table of Contents In each case, an increase in claims, or an increase in reserves due to revised morbidity assumptions can have an immediate Certain of our insurance products are subject to policyholder behavior risk, which is the risk that actual policyholder Our ability to reprice products is limited and may not compensate for deviations from our expected insurance assumptions. Morbidity incidence is the risk that the rate at which policyholders become unhealthy (and qualify for benefits under insurance policies) deviates adversely from what is expected. We are primarily exposed to morbidity incidence risk through short-term disability products, long-term disability products, long-term care products, and the accident and health products we sell in Japan and Taiwan. Morbidity continuation is the risk that the length of time for which policyholders remain unhealthy deviates adversely from what is expected. This risk is primarily in our disability and long-term care products. Lapse calamity is the risk that lapse rates over the short-term deviate adversely from what is expected, for example, surrenders of certain insurance products may increase following a downgrade of our financial strength ratings or adverse publicity. Only certain products are exposed to this risk. Products that offer a cash surrender value that resides in the general account, such as general account stable value products, could pose a potential short-term lapse calamity risk. Surrender of these products can impact liquidity, and it may be necessary in certain market conditions to sell assets to meet surrender demands. Lapse calamity can also impact our earnings through its impact on estimated future profits. Policyholder behavior efficiency is the risk that the behavior of our customers or policyholders deviates adversely from what is expected. Policyholder behavior efficiency risk arises through product features which provide some degree of choice or flexibility for the policyholder, which can impact the amount and or timing of claims. Such choices include surrender, lapse, partial withdrawal, policy loan utilization, and premium payment rates for contracts with flexible premiums. While some behavior is driven by macro factors such as market movements, policyholder behavior at a fundamental level is driven primarily by policyholders individual needs, which may differ significantly from product to product depending on many factors including the features offered, the approach taken to market each product, and competitor pricing. For example, persistency (the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force) within our annuities business may be significantly impacted by the value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values in light of poor market performance as well as other factors. Many of our products also provide our customers with wide flexibility with respect to the amount and timing of premium deposits and the amount and timing of withdrawals from the policy s value. Results may vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products, especially if these product features are relatively new to the marketplace. The pricing of certain of our variable annuity products that contain certain living benefit guarantees is also based on assumptions about utilization rates, or the percentage of contracts that will utilize the benefit during the contract duration, including the timing of the first withdrawal. Results may vary based on differences between actual and expected benefit utilization. We may also be impacted by customers seeking to sell their benefits. In particular, the development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or viaticals and investor owned life insurance, and third-party investor strategies in the annuities business, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. Policyholder behavior efficiency is generally a long-term risk that emerges over time. An increase in reserves due to revised assumptions has an immediate impact on our results of operations and financial condition however, from an economic or cash flow perspective, the impact is generally long term as the excess outflow is paid over time. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 48 425 levels of mortality in the near-term. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused and may continue to cause a mortality calamity. Elevated losses will reduce our earnings and capital, and we may be forced to liquidate assets before maturity in order to pay the excess claims. The pandemic situation may worsen depending on the evolution of the virus s transmissibility and virulence, including the potential for further mutation, effectiveness of public health measures and availability and effectiveness of vaccines and treatments. Ultimate losses would depend on several factors, including the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured population, age and geographic distribution of associated deaths, collectability of reinsurance, performance of our investment portfolio, effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies and other variables. insurance premiums. It may also result in a lapse calamity, as discussed above. behavior or morbidity assumptions we used to price our products. Market Risk business, are subject to market risk. Market risk is the risk of loss from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. these products, which can fluctuate substantially depending on market conditions. Market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage has an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our investment management business, which depends on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, and could decrease the value of our strategic investments. products and businesses, and other risks might not perform as intended or expected, resulting in higher than expected realized losses and stresses on liquidity. Market conditions can limit availability of hedging instruments, require us to post additional collateral, and further increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. interest rate environment, or other factors, with possible negative impacts on our overall results. Limited opportunities for attractive investments may lead to holding cash for long periods of time and increased use of derivatives for duration management and other portfolio management purposes. The increased use of derivatives may increase the volatility of our U.S. GAAP results and our statutory capital. economy, in the U.S. economy (including as a result of actions by the Federal Reserve with respect to monetary policy, and adverse political developments), and in the Japanese economy (including due to the effects of inflation or deflation, interest rate volatility, changes in the Japan sovereign credit rating, and material changes in the value of the Japanese yen relative to the U.S. dollar). Global, U.S. or Japanese economic activity and financial markets may in turn be negatively affected by adverse developments or conditions in specific geographical regions. Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. interest rate risk, which is the risk of loss arising from asset liability duration mismatches within our general account investments as well as invested assets of other entities and operations. The risk of mismatch in asset liability duration is mainly driven by the specific dynamics of product liabilities. Some product liabilities are expected to have only modest risk related to interest rates because cash flows can be matched by available assets in the investable space. The interest rate risk emerges primarily from their tail cash flows (30 years or more), which cannot be matched by assets for sale in the marketplace, exposing the Company to future reinvestment risk. In addition, certain of our products provide for recurring premiums which Table of Contents The COVID-19 pandemic has increased and may continue to increase insurance risk. We expect COVID-19 to drive elevated The pandemic may also result in a change in policyholder behavior, such as policyholders choosing to defer or stop paying Additionally, as a result of COVID-19, we may experience elevated disability claims in our Group Insurance business. Finally, we cannot predict whether COVID-19 will ultimately lead to longer-term deviations from the mortality, policyholder The profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products, as well as the fees we earn in our investment management The profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting Derivative instruments we use to hedge and manage foreign exchange, interest rate and equity market risks associated with our Market risk may limit opportunities for investment of available funds at appropriate returns, including due to the current low Our investments, results of operations and financial condition may also be adversely affected by developments in the global For a discussion of the impact of changes in market conditions on our financial condition see Item 7A Quantitative and Our insurance and annuity products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are subject to 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 49 425 may be invested at interest rates lower than the rates included in our pricing assumptions. Market-sensitive cash flows exist with other product liabilities including products whose cash flows can be linked to market performance through secondary guarantees, minimum crediting rates, and or changes in insurance assumptions. volatility in both earnings and capital. For example, some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting these contracts. When interest rates decline or remain low, as they have in recent years, we must invest in lower-yielding instruments, potentially reducing net investment income and constraining our ability to offer certain products. This risk is increased as more policyholders may retain their policies in a low rate environment. Since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum crediting rates or limit the resetting of crediting rates, the spreads could decrease or go negative. assets as quickly as needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. It is possible that fewer policyholders may retain their policies and annuity contracts as they pursue higher crediting rates, which could expose the Company to losses and liquidity stress. In addition, rising interest rates could cause a decline in the market value of fixed income assets the Company manages which in turn could result in lower asset management fees earned. diversified maturities that has a key rate duration profile that is approximately equal to the key rate duration profile of our liability and surplus benchmarks however, these benchmarks are based on estimates of the liability cash flow profiles which are complex and could turn out to be inaccurate, especially when markets are volatile. In addition, there are practical and capital market limitations on our ability to accomplish this matching. Due to these and other factors we may need to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to satisfy liabilities or be forced to reinvest funds in a lower rate environment. from assets that are invested in a different currency than the related liability, as well as the unhedged portion of the Company s earnings from, and capital supporting, operations in a foreign currency. As a U.S.-based company with significant business operations outside of the U.S., particularly in Japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to these operations, as well as in our investment portfolio. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and cash flows, as well as increase the volatility of our results of operations under U.S. GAAP. In the short-term, solvency margins in our Japan businesses can also be impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates. reinsurance contracts and PGIM s investment activities based in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, changes in foreign currency exchange rates create risk that we may experience volatility in the U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. We seek to manage this risk through various hedging strategies, including the use of foreign currency hedges and through holding U.S. dollar-denominated securities in the investment portfolios of certain of these operations. Additionally, our Japanese insurance operations offer a variety of non-Japanese yen denominated products. We seek to mitigate this risk by holding investments in corresponding currencies. For certain of our international insurance operations outside of Japan, we elect to not hedge the risk of changes in our subsidiary equity investments due to foreign exchange rate movements. our foreign currency exchange rate risk arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. We manage this risk by hedging substantially all domestic foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments into U.S. dollars. We generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. The value and liquidity of our foreign currency investments could be adversely affected by local market, economic and financial conditions. of our hedging program and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on our business, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates. For a discussion of the impact of the U.K. s exit from the European Union on our operations, see Business Regulation International Investment and Retirement Products and Investment Management Operations. Table of Contents Our exposure to interest rates can manifest over years as in the case of earnings compression or in the short term by creating Alternatively, when interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account with the higher-yielding Our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with Our significant business operations outside the U.S. subject us to foreign exchange risk, which is the risk of loss arising For our International Businesses operations, our Retirement segment s earnings on non-U.S. dollar-denominated longevity For our domestic investment portfolios supporting our U.S. insurance operations and other proprietary investment portfolios, There can be no assurance that our hedging and other strategies will effectively mitigate foreign exchange risk. For a discussion 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 50 425 and international insurance products, are market sensitive and may decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position under U.S. GAAP. Certain of our products, particularly our variable annuity products and to a lesser extent certain international insurance products, include guarantees of minimum surrender values or income streams for stated periods or for life, which may be in excess of account values. Downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, increased credit spreads, or (as discussed above) reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of liabilities associated with such guarantees, resulting in increases in reserves and reductions in net income. We use a variety of hedging and risk management strategies, including product features, to mitigate these risks in part and we may periodically change our strategies over time. These strategies may, however, not be fully effective. In addition, we may be unable or may choose not to fully hedge these risks. Hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. Hedging instruments also may not change in value correspondingly with associated liabilities due to equity market or interest rate conditions, non-performance risk or other reasons. We may choose to hedge these risks on a basis that does not correspond to their anticipated or actual impact upon our results of operations or financial position under U.S. GAAP. Changes from period to period in the valuation of these policy benefits, and in the amount of our obligations effectively hedged, will result in volatility in our results of operations and financial position under U.S. GAAP and the statutory capital levels of our insurance subsidiaries. Estimates and assumptions we make in connection with hedging activities may fail to reflect or correspond to our actual long-term exposure from our guarantees. Further, the risk of increases in the costs of our guarantees not covered by our hedging and other capital and risk management strategies may become more significant due to changes in policyholder behavior driven by market conditions or other factors. The above factors, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. consider the market perception of our risk of non-performance, and a decrease in our own credit spreads resulting from ratings upgrades or other events or market conditions could cause the recorded value of these liabilities to increase, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. caused market disruptions and volatility. Continued market disruptions and volatility may negatively impact the profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products, which depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products which can fluctuate substantially depending on market conditions. Market volatility and reduced liquidity may reduce our ability to implement asset-liability management and hedging strategies. In addition, market conditions may further reduce the value of assets that we manage in our investment management business, which depends on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management. The decline in interest rates, in particular, may result in lower investment income, higher reserve levels and other consequences as described under Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Impact of a Low Interest Rate Environment. Finally, low interest rates and poor equity market returns may result in increased pension and other postretirement benefit plan expenses and reduce our profitability. Liquidity Risk term obligations as they come due. liquidity shortfall may arise in the event of insufficient funding sources or an immediate and significant need for cash or collateral. In addition, it is possible that expected liquidity sources, such as our credit facilities, may be unavailable or inadequate to satisfy the liquidity demands described below. Those sources are: Derivative collateral market exposure: Abrupt changes to interest rate, equity, and or currency markets may increase collateral requirements to counterparties and create liquidity risk for the Company. Asset liability mismatch: There are liquidity risks associated with liabilities coming due prior to the matching asset cash flows. Structural maturities mismatch can occur in activities such as securities lending, where the liabilities are effectively overnight open transactions used to fund longer term assets. Table of Contents Guarantees within certain of our products, in particular our variable annuities and to a lesser extent certain individual life Our valuation of the liabilities for the minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products requires us to The COVID-19 pandemic has increased and may continue to increase market risk. During 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic As a financial services company, we are exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that the Company is unable to meet near- Liquidity risk is a manifestation of events that are driven by other risk types (market, insurance, investment, operational). A The Company has four primary sources of liquidity exposure and associated drivers that trigger material liquidity demand. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 51 425 limits on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity. significant actions to support liquidity as described under Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Nevertheless, the impact of the COVID-19 crisis and related market dislocations could strain our existing liquidity and cause us to increase the use of our alternative sources of liquidity, which could result in increased financial leverage on our balance sheet and negatively impact our credit and financial strength ratings. Furthermore, certain sources of liquidity might not be available during times of stress, or may only be available on unfavorable terms, which can result in a decrease in our profitability and a significant reduction in our financial flexibility. Operational Risk misconduct, and as a result of external events. elevated as a result of organizational changes, including recent and planned changes related to the Company s business transformation efforts. See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview for additional information. Operational Risk Types Potential Impacts Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, certain pending regulatory and litigation matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We may become subject to additional regulatory and legal actions in the future. Wholesale funding: The Company depends upon the financial markets for funding (such as through the issuance of commercial paper, securities lending and repurchase arrangements and other forms of borrowings in the capital markets). These sources might not be available during times of stress, or may only be available on unfavorable terms, which can result in a decrease in our profitability and a significant reduction in our financial flexibility. Insurance cash flows: The Company faces potential liquidity risks from unexpected cash demands due to severe mortality calamity, customer withdrawals or lapse events. If such events were to occur, the Company may face unexpectedly high levels of claim payments to policyholders. Processes: Processing failure failure to safeguard or retain documents records errors in valuation pricing models and processes project management or execution failures improper sales practices improper administration of our products failure to adhere to clients investment guidelines. Systems: Failures during the development and implementation of new systems systems failures. People: Internal fraud, breaches of employment law, unauthorized activities loss or lack of key personnel, inadequate training inadequate supervision. External Events: External crime cyber-attack, outsourcing risk vendor risk natural and other disasters changes in laws regulations. Legal: Legal and regulatory compliance failures. See Business Regulation for a discussion of the regulations applicable to the Company. Financial losses: The Company experiences a financial loss. This loss may originate from various causes including, but not limited to, transaction processing errors and fraud. Customer impacts: The Company may not be able to service customers. This may result if the Company is unable to continue operations during a business continuation event or if systems are compromised due to malware or virus. Regulatory fines or sanctions: When the Company fails to comply with applicable laws or regulations, regulatory fines or sanctions may be imposed. In addition, possible restrictions on business activities may result. Legal actions: Failure to comply with laws and regulations also exposes the Company to litigation risk. This may also result in financial losses. Table of Contents For a discussion of the Company s liquidity and sources and uses of liquidity, including information about legal and regulatory The COVID-19 pandemic has increased and may continue to increase liquidity risk. During 2020, the Company took Our operations are exposed to the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human error or An operational risk failure may result in one or more actual or potential impacts to the Company. Operational risk may be Liabilities we may incur as a result of operational failures are described further under Contingent Liabilities in Note 23 to the 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 52 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 53 425 experience a business continuation event as a result of: timeliness of data we use to run our businesses and service our customers. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. financial intermediaries and of vendors and parties to which we outsource the provision of services or business operations. organized cyber-attack activity against western organizations, including but not limited to the financial services sector and no organization is fully immune to cyber-attacks. Risks related to cyber-attack arise in the following areas: with various third-parties (e.g., service providers, reinsurers, etc.) substantial amounts of private and confidential information, including in some instances sensitive health-related information. We are subject to the risk that the privacy of this information may be compromised, including as a result of an information security breach described above. We have experienced cyber-security breaches as a result of which confidential and sensitive health-related information of our customers has been compromised. Any compromise or perceived compromise of our security by us or by one of our vendors could damage our reputation, cause the termination of relationships with distributors, government-run health insurance exchanges, marketing partners and insurance carriers, reduce demand for our services and subject us to significant liability and expense as well as regulatory action and lawsuits, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. enterprise. The Company's business model relies heavily on the use of third-parties to deliver contracted services in a broad range of areas. This presents the risk that the Company is unable to meet legal, regulatory, financial or customer obligations because third- parties fail to deliver contracted services, or that the Company is exposed to reputational damage because third-parties operate in a poorly controlled manner. We use affiliates and third-party vendors located outside the U.S. to provide certain services and functions, which also exposes us to business disruptions and political risks as a result of risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States. In our investments in which we hold a minority interest, or that are Severe pandemic, as we saw in 2020 with the COVID-19 pandemic, either naturally occurring or intentionally manipulated pathogens. Geo-political risks, including armed conflict and civil unrest. Terrorist events. Significant natural or accidental disasters. Cyber-attacks. Protecting both structured and unstructured sensitive information is a constant need. However, some risks cannot be fully mitigated using technology or otherwise. Unsuspecting employees represent a primary avenue for external parties to gain access to our network and systems. Many attacks, even from sophisticated actors, include rudimentary techniques such as coaxing an internal user to click on a malicious attachment or link to introduce malware or steal their username and password. The risk associated with wrongdoers encrypting data (i.e., ransomware) or disrupting communications (i.e., denial of service) for the purposes of extortion continues to increase. Insurance and retirement services companies are increasingly being targeted by hackers and fraudulent actors seeking to monetize personally identifiable information or extort money. Nation-state sponsored organizations are engaged in cyber-attacks but not only for monetization purposes. Nation states appear to be motivated by the desire to gain information about foreign citizens and governments or to influence or cause disruptions in commerce or political affairs. We have also seen an increase in non-technical attempts to commit fraud or solicit information via call centers and interactive voice response systems, and we anticipate the attempts will become more common. We rely on third-parties to provide services as described further below. While we maintain certain standards for all vendors that provide us services, our vendors, and in turn, their own service providers, may become subject to a security breach, including as a result of their failure to perform in accordance with contractual arrangements. Table of Contents Key Enterprise Operational Risks - Key enterprise operational risks include, among others, the following: We are subject to business continuation risk, which is the risk that our operations, systems or data may be disrupted. We may We depend heavily on our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and Further, we face the risk of operational and technology failures by others, including clearing agents, exchanges and other We are subject to the risk that we may not adequately maintain information security. There continues to be significant and We may not adequately ensure the privacy of sensitive data. In the course of our ordinary business we collect, store and share Third-parties (outsourcing providers, vendors and suppliers and joint venture partners) present added operational risk to our 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 54 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 55 425 managed by third-parties, we lack management and operational control over operations, which may subject us to additional operational, compliance and legal risks and prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. In those jurisdictions where we are constrained by law from owning a majority interest in jointly owned operations, our remedies in the event of a breach by a joint venture partner may be limited (e.g., we may have no ability to exercise a call option). Our products are sold primarily through our captive affiliated distributors and third-party distributing firms. We also distribute third- parties products through our captive affiliate distributors, including as part of our Assurance IQ business. Our captive affiliated distributors are made up of large numbers of decentralized sales personnel who are compensated based on commissions. The third- party distributing firms generally are not dedicated to us exclusively and may frequently recommend and or market products of our competitors. Accordingly, we must compete intensely for their services. Our sales could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract, retain or motivate third-party distributing firms or if we do not adequately provide support, training, compensation, and education to this sales network regarding our products, or if our products are not competitive and not appropriately aligned with consumer needs. While third-party distributing firms have an independent regulatory accountability, some regulators have been clear with expectations that product manufacturers retain significant sales practices accountability. provision of advice to our customers, and in recent years many of these rules have been revised or re-examined. In addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling financial services products and the payments they receive. Furthermore, sales practices and investor protection have increasingly become areas of focus in regulatory examinations. These investigations and examinations have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling those companies products. Enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and or changes to industry practices, which could adversely affect our ability to market our products. If our products are distributed in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, or distributors of our products otherwise engage in misconduct, we may suffer reputational and other harm to our business and be subject to regulatory action, penalties or damages. Our business may also be harmed if captive affiliate distributors engage in inappropriate conduct in connection with the sale of third-party products. marketing and other lead generation activities that subject us to various federal and state telemarketing regulations, including the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. Violations of these regulations could subject our affiliated distributors to litigation and regulatory inquiries that result in penalties or damages. challenged in courts and by government agencies, and various legislative or regulatory proposals have been introduced addressing the criteria for determining the status of independent contractors classification as employees for, among other things, employment tax purposes or other employment benefits. The costs associated with potential changes with respect to these independent contractor and franchisee classifications have impacted our results previously and could have a material adverse effect on our business in the future. key distributors. For example, a significant amount of our sales in Japan through banks is derived through a single major Japanese bank and a significant portion of our sales in Japan through Life Consultants is derived through a single association relationship. We periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third-parties. An interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Distributors may elect to reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for such reasons as adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. We are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, or that new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. An increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market products through these channels. Consolidation of distributors and or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. Finally, we also may be challenged by new technologies and marketplace entrants that could interfere with our existing relationships. Table of Contents Affiliate and third-party distributors of our products present added regulatory, competitive and other risks to our enterprise. The Company and our distributors are subject to rules regarding the standard of care applicable to sales of our products and the Additionally, certain of our affiliated distributors engage in direct marketing to consumers through telemarketing, email Many of our distribution personnel are independent contractors or franchisees. From time to time, their status has been Although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we do maintain relationships with certain 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 56 425 adverse regulatory impacts caused by model errors or limitations, incorrect implementation of models, or misuse of or overreliance upon models. Models are utilized by our businesses and corporate areas primarily to project future cash flows associated with pricing products, calculating reserves and valuing assets, as well as in evaluating risk and determining capital requirements, among other uses. These models may not operate properly and may rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. As our businesses continue to grow and evolve, the number and complexity of models we utilize expands, increasing our exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data and assumptions. Furthermore, our models might change as the result of new or changing laws or regulations. of contractual rights with employees and third-parties and on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we endeavor to protect our rights, third-parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. This would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant, and our efforts may not prove successful. The inability to secure, protect or retain our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. trademark or license usage rights or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. Alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third-parties or implement a costly work around. Any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. COVID-19 crisis has been executing our business continuity protocols to ensure our employees are safe and able to serve our customers. This included transitioning the vast majority of our global workforce to remote work arrangements. We have also made a number of operational changes to accommodate our customers as further described under Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview COVID-19. disruption of our operations, liability to clients, exposure to disciplinary action or harm to our reputation. Furthermore, weaknesses or failures within a vendor s business continuation plan can materially disrupt our business operations. Our information systems and those of our vendors and service providers may be more vulnerable to cyber-attacks, computer viruses or other computer related attacks, programming errors and similar disruptive problems during a business continuation event. Strategic Risk businesses in which we are engaged or a change in our execution. impact of the prolonged low interest rate environment on new product development and continued sales of interest sensitive products. in the U.S. and our other countries of operation at an increasing pace, as there has been greater scrutiny on financial regulation over the past several years. Proposed or unforeseen changes in law or regulation may adversely impact our business. See Business Regulation for a discussion of certain recently enacted and pending proposals by international, federal and state regulatory authorities and their potential impact on our business, including in the following areas: Table of Contents As a financial services company, we are exposed to model risk, which is the risk of financial loss or reputational damage or We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on a combination We may be subject to claims by third-parties for (i) copyright, trademark or patent infringement (ii) breach of copyright, The COVID-19 pandemic has increased and may continue to increase operational risk. One of the main impacts of the In this environment, there is an elevated risk that weaknesses or failures in our business continuation plans could lead to We are subject to the risk of events that can cause our fundamental business model to change, either through a shift in the Changes in the regulatory landscape may be unsettling to our business model. New laws and regulations are being considered In addition, tactical risks may become strategic risks. For example, we have considered and must continue to consider the Financial sector regulatory reform. U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. tax laws, including BEAT and GILTI. Fiduciary rules and other standards of care. Our regulation under U.S. state insurance laws and developments regarding group-wide supervision and capital standards, accounting rules, RBC factors for invested assets and reserves for life insurance, variable annuities and other products. Insurer capital standards in Japan and other non-U.S. jurisdictions. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 57 425 condition. For a discussion of accounting pronouncements and their potential impact on our business, including Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2018-12, Financial Services - Insurance (Topic 944): Targeted Improvements to the Accounting for Long- Duration Contracts, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. of technological and other changes would significantly impact our business model. There may be other unforeseen changes in technology and the external environment which may have a significant impact on our business model. and could continue to cause an economic downturn, higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending. In such an environment, the demand for our products and our investment returns could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we expect near-term sales to be slowed by the impact of social distancing and financial hardship on our customers. qualified individuals the ability to withdraw from defined contribution plans and individual retirement accounts up to 100,000 penalty-free through December 31, 2020, with the withdrawal taxed over a three-year period (unless otherwise elected by the individual). We cannot predict what other actions governments will take in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and how any new laws, regulations, or state-sponsored programs may impact our business. Table of Contents Changes in accounting rules applicable to our business may also have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial Changes in technology and other external factors may be unsettling to our business model. We believe the following aspects The COVID-19 pandemic has increased and may continue to increase strategic risk. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused Finally, we expect that account values in our Full Service business will be impacted by the CARES Act, which provided The following items are examples of other factors which could have a meaningful impact on our business. Privacy and cybersecurity regulation. Interaction with customers. Technology is moving rapidly and as it does, it puts pressure on existing business models. Some of the changes we can anticipate are increased choices about how customers want to interact with the Company or how they want the Company to interact with them. Evolving customer preferences may drive a need to redesign products. Our distribution channels may change to become more automated, at the place and time of the customer s choosing. Such changes clearly have the potential to disrupt our business model. Investment Portfolio. Technology may have a significant impact on the companies in which the Company invests. For example, environmental concerns spur scientific inquiry which may reposition the relative attractiveness of wind or sun power over oil and gas. The transportation industry may favor alternative modes of conveyance of goods which may shift trucking or air transport out of favor. Consumers may change their purchasing behavior to favor online activity which would change the role of malls and retail properties. Medical Advances. The Company is exposed to the impact of medical advances in two major ways. Genetic testing and the availability of that information unequally to consumers and insurers can bring anti-selection risks. Specifically, data from genetic testing can give our prospective customers a clearer view into their future, allowing them to select products protecting them against likelihoods of mortality or longevity with more precision. Also, technologies that extend lives will challenge our actuarial assumptions especially in the annuity-based businesses. We may not realize or sustain the expected benefits from programs we have announced, and these efforts could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations and competitive position. In 2019, we began implementing a multi-year plan of programs designed to accelerate margin growth. If we do not successfully manage and execute these programs, or if they are inadequate or ineffective, we may fail to meet our financial goals and achieve anticipated benefits, improvements may be delayed, not sustained or not realized and our business, operations and competitive position could be adversely affected. These programs could result in unintended consequences or unforeseen costs, including distraction of our management and employees, attrition, inability to attract or retain key personnel, and reduced employee productivity, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to risks relating to the acquisition, and post-acquisition operations, of Assurance IQ, Inc. ( Assurance IQ ). In October 2019, we completed the acquisition of Assurance IQ (the Acquisition ). For a description of Assurance IQ and the Acquisition, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We are subject to certain risks relating to the Acquisition and the ongoing operations of Assurance IQ, and these risks could adversely affect, possibly materially, our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity or prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from the Acquisition. These risks include the following: 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 58 425 Table of Contents A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, adversely impact our business prospects, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. For a discussion of our ratings and the potential impact of a ratings downgrade on our business, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Ratings. We cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. Our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any rating agency. In addition, a sovereign downgrade could result in a downgrade of our subsidiaries operating in that jurisdiction, and ultimately of Prudential Financial and our other subsidiaries. For example, in September 2015, S&P downgraded Japan's sovereign rating to A with a 'Stable' outlook citing uncertainties around the strength of economic growth and weak fiscal positions. As a result, S&P subsequently lowered the ratings of a number of institutions in Japan, including our Japanese insurance subsidiaries. It is possible that Japan s sovereign rating could be subject to further downgrades, which would result in further downgrades of our insurance subsidiaries in Japan. Given the importance of our operations in Japan to our overall results, such downgrades could lead to a downgrade of Prudential Financial and our domestic insurance companies. The elimination of London Inter-Bank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) may adversely affect certain derivatives and floating rate securities we hold and floating rate securities we have issued, certain real estate lending and other activities conducted in PGIM, and any other assets or liabilities whose value is tied to LIBOR. Actions by regulators have resulted in the establishment of alternative reference rates to LIBOR in most major currencies. Recent supervisory guidance reinforces the importance of market participants preparing for LIBOR to be phased out beginning at the end of 2021 through June 30, 2023. However, it remains unclear if, how and in what form, LIBOR will continue to exist. The U.S. Federal Reserve, based on the recommendations of the New York Federal Reserve s Alternative Reference Rate Committee (constituted of major derivative market participants and their regulators), has begun publishing a Secured Overnight Funding Rate ( SOFR ) which is intended to replace U.S. dollar LIBOR, and SOFR-based investment products have been issued in the United States. Proposals for alternative reference rates for other currencies have also been announced or have already begun publication. Markets are developing in response to these new rates and questions around liquidity in these rates and how to appropriately adjust these rates to eliminate any economic value transfer at the time of transition remain a significant concern for us and others in the marketplace. The effect of any changes or reforms to LIBOR or discontinuation of LIBOR on new or existing financial instruments to which we have exposure or the activities in our businesses will vary depending on (1) existing fallback provisions in individual contracts, (2) the adoption of fallback provisions through the Inter-Bank Offered Rate ( IBOR ) Fallbacks Protocol produced by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, and (3) whether, how, and when industry participants develop and widely adopt new reference rates and fallbacks for both legacy and new products or instruments. Accordingly, it is difficult to predict the full impact of the transition away from LIBOR on certain derivatives and floating rate securities we hold, securities we have issued, real estate lending, and other activities we conduct in PGIM, and any other assets or liabilities, as well as contractual rights and obligations, whose value is tied to LIBOR. The value or profitability of these products and instruments may be adversely affected. We may not realize the growth, earnings, cost savings, efficiencies or synergies that we anticipated at the time of the Acquisition. This may result in the need to recognize an impairment of goodwill which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There is the risk that we will be exposed to obligations and liabilities of Assurance IQ that are not adequately covered, in amount, scope or duration, by the indemnification provisions in the merger agreement or representation and warranty insurance policy, or reflected or reserved for in the financial statements of Assurance IQ. The roles and responsibilities of certain members of the senior leadership of Assurance IQ have changed since the acquisition and may continue to change. There is a risk that Assurance IQ will lose key personnel or experience higher than expected employee attrition that could adversely affect the performance of the business. Pursuant to the merger agreement, the Company has agreed to take, or refrain from taking, certain actions with respect to Assurance IQ prior to 2023, and a violation of this agreement may accelerate payment of the full amount of contingent payments. The integration of Assurance IQ into our strategy is ongoing but it may take longer than expected. The integration has required and will continue to require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management s attention from day-to-day business operations. The business of Assurance IQ is subject to certain regulation concerning its digital distribution model and diverse product offerings, which we were not subject to prior to the Acquisition. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 59 425 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Table of Contents The changing competitive landscape may adversely affect the Company. In each of our businesses, we face intense competition from insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. Technological advances, changing customer expectations, including related to digital offerings, access to customer data, or other changes in the marketplace may present opportunities for new or smaller companies without established products or distribution channels to meet consumers increased expectations more efficiently than us. Fintech and insurtech companies and companies in other industries with greater access to customers and data have the potential to disrupt industries globally, and many participants have been partially funded by industry players. For example, in PGIM, we expect to see continued pressure on fees given the focus on passive investment and the growth of the robo- advice channel. Climate change may increase the severity and frequency of calamities, or adversely affect our investment portfolio or investor sentiment. Climate change may increase the frequency and severity of weather-related disasters and pandemics. In addition, climate change regulation may affect the prospects of companies and other entities whose securities we hold, or our willingness to continue to hold their securities. It may also impact other counterparties, including reinsurers, and affect the value of investments, including real estate investments we hold or manage for others. We cannot predict the long-term impacts on us from climate change or related regulation. Climate change may also influence investor sentiment with respect to the Company and investments in our portfolio. Market conditions and other factors may adversely impact product sales or increase expenses. Examples include: Our reputation may be adversely impacted if any of the risks described in this section are realized. Reputational risk could manifest from any of the risks as identified in the Company s risk identification process. Failure to effectively manage risks across a broad range of risk issues exposes the Company to reputational harm. If the Company were to suffer a significant loss in reputation, both policyholders and counterparties could seek to exit existing relationships. Additionally, large changes in credit worthiness, especially credit ratings, could impact access to funding markets while creating additional collateral requirements for existing relationships. The mismanagement of any such risks may potentially damage our reputational asset. Our business is anchored in the strength of our brand, our alignment to our values, and our proven commitment to keep our promises to our customers. Any negative public perception, founded or otherwise, can be widely and rapidly shared over social media or other means, and could cause damage to our reputation. Each of the risks identified in this section relating to the COVID-19 pandemic could also manifest in the event of future pandemics, epidemics or other public health crises. A change in market conditions, such as high inflation and high interest rates, could cause a change in consumer sentiment and behavior adversely affecting sales and persistency of our savings and protection products. Conversely, low inflation and low interest rates could cause persistency of these products to vary from that anticipated and adversely affect profitability. Similarly, changing economic conditions and unfavorable public perception of financial institutions can influence customer behavior, including increasing claims or surrenders in certain products. Sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline, and lapses and surrenders of certain insurance products and withdrawals of assets from investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products. Changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return, life expectancy, health care cost and assumptions regarding compensation increases for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 60 425 properties used by our International Businesses and the international investment operations of PGIM, which are discussed below, as of December 31, 2020, we conduct our business and home office functions in both owned and leased locations throughout the United States. We also conduct back-office functions in leased properties outside of the United States. Mexico, Malaysia and Taiwan. We also conduct our business in owned and leased properties, primarily field offices, located throughout these same countries. For PGIM s international investment operations, as of December 31, 2020, we lease home offices located in Japan and Taiwan. We also lease principal properties and other branch and field offices in other countries where PGIM conducts business. above properties do not include properties we own solely for investment purposes. ways to expand energy efficiency. For home office properties in the U.S., Brazil and Taiwan, we are also developing waste diversion measures including internal recycling and composting infrastructures and availing ourselves of third-party waste diversion programs. Our Prudential Tower home office property in Newark, New Jersey and our data center located in Plymouth, Minnesota have been awarded LEED Gold Certification from the U.S. Green Building Council. pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER there were 1,171,000 registered holders of record for the Common Stock and 397 million shares outstanding. 2020, of its Common Stock: (1) Includes shares of Common Stock withheld from participants for income tax withholding purposes whose shares of restricted stock units vested during the period. Such restricted stock units were originally issued to participants pursuant to the Prudential Financial Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS October 1, 2020 through October 31, 2020 11,441 66.34 0 November 1, 2020 through November 30, 2020 3,032 73.13 0 December 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020 8,319 77.04 0 Total 22,792 74.34 0 0 (2) In December 2019, the Board authorized the Company to repurchase, at management s discretion, up to 2.0 billion of its outstanding Common Stock during the period from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020. The Company suspended Common Stock repurchases Table of Contents We own our headquarters building located at 751 Broad Street, Newark, New Jersey. Excluding our headquarters building and For our International Businesses, as of December 31, 2020, we own and lease home offices located in Japan, Argentina, Brazil, We believe our properties are adequate and suitable for our business as currently conducted and are adequately maintained. The At our domestic home office properties, we are developing programs to reduce emissions. These programs include seeking See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Litigation and Regulatory Matters for a description of certain Not applicable. Prudential Financial s Common Stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PRU. On January 31, 2021, (c) The following table provides information about purchases by the Company during the three months ended December 31, PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Total Number of Purchased(1) Price Paid per Share Shares Purchased Total Number of Program(2) as Part of Purchased under the Program(2) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 61 425 under this authorization beginning April 1, 2020, after purchasing 500 million of shares of Prudential Financial s Common Stock in the first quarter of 2020. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 62 425 discretion, up to 1.5 billion of its outstanding Common Stock during the period from January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, from the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere herein. We derived the selected consolidated income statement data for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, from consolidated financial statements not included herein. used a November 30 fiscal year end for purposes of inclusion in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. The result of this reporting date difference was a one-month reporting lag for Gibraltar Life. As a result, the Company s consolidated balance sheet as of December 31 previously included the assets and liabilities of Gibraltar Life as of November 30 for each respective year, and the Company s consolidated income statement data for the years ended December 31 included Gibraltar Life s results of operations for the twelve months ended November 30 for each respective year. eliminated the one-month reporting lag so that the reporting dates and periods of financial balances and results of Gibraltar Life are consistent with those of the Company. The establishment of a new fiscal year end for Gibraltar Life is considered a change in accounting principle to a preferable method and requires retrospective application. The Company believes this change in accounting principle is preferable given that it aligns the reporting dates of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries, which allows for a more timely and consistent basis of reporting the financial position and results of Gibraltar Life. In order to effect this elimination, the Company restated prior periods equity which increased Retained Earnings by approximately 167 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2017. The impact to the Statements of Operations, Statements of Cash Flows, Statements of Comprehensive Income and other balance sheet captions, as a result of the elimination of the reporting lag, was not material for any of the periods presented. Statements included elsewhere herein. Table of Contents On February 4, 2021, Prudential Financial s Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase, at management s We derived the selected consolidated income statement data for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 and the Prior to January 1, 2018, the Company s Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd. ( Gibraltar Life ) consolidated operations Effective January 1, 2018, the Company converted its Gibraltar Life operations to a December 31 fiscal year end. This action This selected consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with our MD&A and Consolidated Financial 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 63 425 Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 (in millions, except per share and ratio information) Income Statement Data: Revenues: Benefits and expenses: Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures (323) 5,085 4,834 6,487 5,705 Total income tax expense (benefit) (81) 947 822 (1,438) 1,335 Income (loss) before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures (242) 4,138 4,012 7,925 4,370 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes 96 100 76 49 49 Net income (loss) (146) 4,238 4,088 7,974 4,419 Less: Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 228 52 14 111 51 Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. (374) 4,186 4,074 7,863 4,368 EARNINGS PER SHARE Dividends declared per share Common Stock 4.40 4.00 3.60 3.00 2.80 As of December 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 (in millions) Balance Sheet Data: Total investments excluding policy loans 542,349 510,664 467,229 457,980 432,485 Separate account assets 327,277 312,281 279,136 306,617 287,636 Total assets 940,722 896,552 815,078 832,136 784,177 Future policy benefits and policyholders account balances 468,025 445,637 424,184 405,506 386,113 Separate account liabilities 327,277 312,281 279,136 306,617 287,636 Short-term debt 925 1,933 2,451 1,380 1,133 Long-term debt 19,718 18,646 17,378 17,172 18,041 Total liabilities 872,512 832,833 766,047 777,625 737,922 Prudential Financial, Inc. equity 67,425 63,115 48,617 54,236 46,030 Noncontrolling interests 785 604 414 275 225 Total equity 68,210 63,719 49,031 54,511 46,255 Basic earnings per share Common Stock: Diluted earnings per share Common Stock: Premiums 31,140 34,202 35,779 32,091 30,964 Policy charges and fee income 6,029 5,978 6,002 5,303 5,906 Net investment income 17,410 17,585 16,176 16,435 15,520 Asset management and service fees 4,391 4,239 4,100 4,127 3,752 Other income (loss) 1,950 3,262 (1,042) 1,301 443 Realized investment gains (losses), net (3,887) (459) 1,977 432 2,194 Policyholders benefits 35,059 36,820 39,404 33,794 33,632 Interest credited to policyholders account balances 4,538 4,880 3,196 3,822 3,761 Dividends to policyholders 1,625 2,274 1,336 2,091 2,025 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 2,221 2,332 2,273 1,580 1,877 General and administrative expenses 13,913 13,416 11,949 11,915 11,779 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. (1.00) 10.23 9.64 18.19 9.85 Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. (1.00) 10.23 9.64 18.19 9.85 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. (1.00) 10.11 9.50 17.86 9.71 Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. (1.00) 10.11 9.50 17.86 9.71 Table of Contents Total revenues 57,033 64,807 62,992 59,689 58,779 Total benefits and expenses 57,356 59,722 58,158 53,202 53,074 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 64 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 65 425 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF Overview 57 Results of Operations 64 Accounting Policies & Pronouncements 71 Results of Operations by Segment 82 Income Taxes 105 Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities, Assets Supporting Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities and Other Related Investments 106 Valuation of Assets and Liabilities 108 General Account Investments 110 Liquidity and Capital Resources 132 Ratings 146 Contractual Obligations 148 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 149 Risk Management 149 COVID-19 57 Industry Trends 61 Impact of a Low Interest Rate Environment 62 Consolidated Results of Operations 64 Segment Results of Operations 65 Segment Measures 67 Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates 68 Application of Critical Accounting Estimates 71 Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements 82 U.S. Businesses 86 Retirement 87 Group Insurance 89 Individual Annuities 91 Individual Life 96 Assurance IQ 98 International Businesses 99 Corporate and Other 103 Divested and Run-off Businesses 104 Closed Block Division 104 Table of Contents OPERATIONS TABLE OF CONTENTS 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 66 425 Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are made based on management s current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Prudential Financial, Inc. s actual results may differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements. Certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements can be found in the Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements sections herein. for the year ended December 31, 2019 in comparison to the year ended December 31, 2018 have been omitted. For such omitted discussions, refer to Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD&A ) included in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. U.S. Workplace Solutions, U.S. Individual Solutions, and Assurance IQ divisions), our International Businesses, the Closed Block division, and our Corporate and Other operations. The U.S. Workplace Solutions division consists of our Retirement and Group Insurance businesses the U.S. Individual Solutions division consists of our Individual Annuities and Individual Life businesses and the Assurance IQ division consists of our Assurance IQ business, which we acquired in October 2019 (see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). The Closed Block division is accounted for as a divested business that is reported separately from the Divested and Run-off Businesses that are included in Corporate and Other. Our Corporate and Other operations include corporate items and initiatives that are not allocated to business segments and businesses that have been or will be divested or placed in run-off, excluding the Closed Block division. See Business for a description of our sources of revenue and details on how our profitability is impacted. In addition, our profitability is impacted by our ability to effectively deploy capital, utilize our tax capacity and manage expenses. complement each other to provide competitive advantages, earnings diversification and capital benefits from a balanced risk profile. While challenges exist in the form of a low interest rate environment (see Impact of a Low Interest Rate Environment below), fee compression in certain of our businesses and other market factors, including macroeconomic stress and market disruption resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic (see COVID-19 below), we expect that our businesses will produce appropriate returns for the current market environment. We believe we are well-positioned to tap into market opportunities to meet the evolving needs of individual customers, workplace clients, and society at large. Our mix of high-quality protection, retirement and investment management businesses enables us to offer solutions that cover a broad range of financial needs and to engage with our clients through multiple channels, including the ability to sell solutions across a broad socio-economic spectrum through Assurance IQ s digital platform. We aim to expand our addressable market, build deeper and longer-lasting relationships with customers and clients, and meaningfully improve their financial wellness. capabilities of our businesses, which we expect will also help us realize improved margins. In 2019, we launched programs in pursuit of these objectives that will result in multi-year investments in technology, systems and employee reskilling, as well as severance and related charges. The implementation of these programs resulted in approximately 400 million of costs in 2019, including a charge related to the Company s Voluntary Separation Program offered to certain eligible U.S.-based employees whose employment end dates occurred in 2020. Over the course of 2020, we incurred 194 million of additional implementation costs related to these programs, resulting in cumulative implementation costs of approximately 594 million as of December 31, 2020. from these programs was a benefit of 216 million and, as of December 31, 2020, we have achieved approximately 400 million in run-rate cost savings, which we expect will accumulate to approximately 750 million by the end of 2023. and financial markets and elevated mortality and morbidity experience for the global population. These events impacted our results of operations throughout 2020 and are expected to impact our results of operations in 2021. The Company Table of Contents Certain of the statements included in this section constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Pursuant to the FAST Act Modernization and Simplification of Regulation S-K, discussions related to the results of operations Our principal operations consist of PGIM (our global investment management business), our U.S. Businesses (consisting of our Management expects that results in 2021 will continue to benefit from our differentiated mix of market-leading businesses that In order to further increase our competitive advantage, we are working to enhance the experience of our customers and the Over the next several years, we also expect to see significant expense efficiencies. The impact to the Company s 2020 results Beginning in the first quarter of 2020, the outbreak of COVID-19 created extreme stress and disruption in the global economy 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 67 425 has taken several measures to manage the impacts of this crisis. The actual and expected impacts of these events and other items are set forth below: Table of Contents Liquidity. As of December 31, 2020, we had 5.6 billion in highly liquid assets at Prudential Financial. Since the beginning of Capital Resources. As of December 31, 2020, all of our significant insurance subsidiaries maintained capital levels consistent Investment Portfolio. Net unrealized gains (losses) on fixed maturity investments (excluding securities classified as trading) Underwriting Results. In 2020, we estimate that COVID-19 had a net negative impact on our underwriting results, reflecting Expenses. We experienced higher expenses of approximately 150 million in 2020 from costs associated with COVID-19, 2020, we took several steps to proactively manage liquidity, including refinancing 1.3 billion of junior subordinated debt to reduce our financing costs, entering into a 1.5 billion facility agreement with a Delaware trust to increase our alternative sources of liquidity and issuing 1.5 billion in senior debt in part to pre-fund 2020 and 2021 maturities. We suspended Common Stock repurchases beginning April 1, 2020 under our existing repurchase authorization, after repurchasing 500 million of shares of Prudential Financial s Common Stock in the first quarter of 2020. We did not resume share repurchases in 2020 as the duration and severity of the pandemic and its effect on the economy remained uncertain. On February 4, 2021, we announced that our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to 1.5 billion of our outstanding Common Stock during the period from January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021. The impact of COVID-19 and related market dislocations could further strain our existing liquidity and cause us to increase the use of our alternative sources of liquidity, which could result in increased financial leverage on our balance sheet and negatively impact our credit and financial strength ratings or ratings outlooks. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity for a discussion of our liquidity. with their ratings targets however, market conditions could negatively impact the statutory capital of our insurance companies and constrain our overall capital flexibility, including as a result of credit migration and losses in our investment portfolio, as discussed below. Adverse market conditions could require us to take additional management actions for our insurance subsidiaries to maintain capital consistent with their ratings objectives, which may include redeploying financial resources from internal sources, or using available external sources of capital or seeking additional sources. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Capital for a discussion of our capital resources. were a net unrealized gain of 58,928 million as of December 31, 2020, compared to a net unrealized gain of 44,891 million as of December 31, 2019. Gross unrealized gains increased from 46,206 million as of December 31, 2019 to 59,980 million as of December 31, 2020, and gross unrealized losses decreased from 1,315 million to 980 million for the same period. The increase in gross unrealized gains and the decrease in gross unrealized losses was primarily due to a decrease in U.S. interest rates. The continued impact of COVID-19 on the global economy and corporate credit may continue to result in negative credit migration and possible losses in our investment portfolio. Due to the highly uncertain nature of these conditions, it is not possible to estimate the overall impacts at this time. The sectors most impacted by the COVID-19 crisis include energy, consumer cyclical and retail related investments (see General Account Investments for additional information). During 2020, approximately 1.4% of total invested assets were modified to allow for limited forbearance. Under the terms of forbearance, the borrower is allowed to defer a portion of current year principal and or interest payments for a short period (e.g., 6 months). These deferrals accrue additional interest and do not have a material impact on our investment value. unfavorable mortality impacts in our Group Insurance and Individual Life businesses, partially offset by favorable mortality impacts in our Retirement business. Going forward, we estimate that our net underwriting results will be adversely impacted by approximately 85 million for every incremental 100,000 fatalities in the United States however, the ultimate impact on our underwriting results will depend on factors such as: an insured s age geographic concentration insured versus uninsured populations among the fatalities the transmissibility and virulence of the virus, including the potential of further mutation and the speed and efficacy of the vaccine rollout. In addition, see Results of Operations by Segment for a discussion of mortality experience in each of our segments, where applicable. primarily related to agent compensation, as well as technology and third-party vendor capabilities related to remote work functionality and protecting our employees health. However, we also experienced cost savings associated with COVID-19 of approximately 110 million in 2020, primarily from lower travel and entertainment costs. We have provided a number of customer accommodations in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including extending grace periods for premium payments, expediting claim payments and withdrawal requests, waiving certain claims payment requirements, waiving certain transaction fees, waiving interest on policy loans and wiring funds at the Company s expense. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 68 425 this document: We plan to continue our transformation by executing on our cost savings plan and taking additional steps to increase our growth potential and reduce our market sensitivity. Specifically, we plan to reallocate capital across the businesses with the intention of doubling the earnings contribution from our higher-growth businesses and reducing the earnings contribution from our Individual Annuities business. Table of Contents Business Continuity. One of the main impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic has been executing our business continuity Business Outlooks. See Outlook for a discussion of specific outlook considerations for each of our businesses, including Results of Operations by Segment. See Results of Operations by Segment for a discussion of COVID-19 impacts on Sales and Flows. See Segment Results of Operations for a discussion of sales and flows in each of our segments. Risk Management. See Risk Management COVID-19 for a discussion of our risk management framework and its Risk Factors. See Risk Factors for a discussion of the risks to our businesses posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. CARES Act and Other Regulatory Developments. See Business Regulation Regulatory Response to the COVID-19 We feel confident about our prospects for the future based on the foundation of our integrated and complementary businesses. Specific outlook considerations for each of our businesses include the following: In addition to the considerations disclosed above, other COVID-19 related impacts are discussed in the following sections of PGIM. Our global investment management business, PGIM, is focused on maintaining strong investment performance while leveraging the scale of its approximately 1.499 trillion of assets under management through its distinctive multi- manager model. In addition to providing solutions for its third-party clients, PGIM provides our U.S. and International Businesses with a competitive advantage through its investment expertise across a broad array of asset classes. Despite the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, PGIM has experienced favorable equity market and credit conditions, strong performance, continued positive flows across both institutional and retail investors, gains from our seed capital and co- investments and increased levels of production and profitability from the agency business demonstrating the counter cyclical nature of the business. There remain risks to earnings across the asset management industry, including PGIM, if economic conditions remain unstable, markets decline or credit spreads widen. An economic downturn could also have impacts on real estate prices as well as transaction volumes in certain private asset classes. Adverse changes in market conditions could lead to lower fee-based revenues, incentive fees taking longer to be realized and losses emerging in our co- and seed investment portfolio. We believe PGIM s uniquely diversified global platform is well positioned to be resilient in the face of market and industry headwinds. Underpinning our growth strategy is our ability to continue to deliver robust investment performance, and to attract and retain high-caliber investment talent. U.S. Workplace Solutions. In our Retirement business, we continue to provide products that respond to the needs of plan sponsors to manage risk and control their benefit costs while ensuring we maintain appropriate pricing and return expectations under changing market conditions. In our full service business, we have experienced strong deposits and sales in recent years and, while we foresee the continuation of spread and fee compression, we believe protocols to ensure our employees are safe and able to serve our customers. This included effectively transitioning the vast majority of our employees to remote work arrangements. We believe all of our businesses can sustain remote work and social distancing for an indefinite period while ensuring that critical business operations are sustained. In addition, we are managing COVID-19-related impacts on third-party provided services, and do not anticipate significant interruption in critical operations. impacts related to COVID-19. segment results, where applicable. incorporation of pandemic stress scenarios. Pandemic for additional information. U.S. Businesses: 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 69 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 70 425 Table of Contents U.S. Individual Solutions. Our Individual Annuities business remains focused on helping its customers meet their investment and retirement needs. During 2020, we took actions to pivot to less interest rate-sensitive products and ensure we realize appropriate returns for the current economic environment, including the decision to discontinue sales of traditional variable annuities with guaranteed living benefits after December 31, 2020. We expect to continue to shift our focus to products that provide protected outcomes for our customers through simpler, technology-enabled channels and that deliver shareholder value across a wide range of economic environments. We also expect account values, fee income, and spread income to continue to be impacted by market conditions. Our Individual Life business continues to focus on making life insurance solutions more available to consumers and financial professionals, including building omnichannel distribution capabilities enabled by digital platforms. During 2020, we also took pricing and product actions to ensure we realize appropriate returns for the current economic environment and to diversify our product mix to further limit our sensitivity to interest rates, including the suspension of our single life guaranteed universal life product. We expect COVID-19 to continue to contribute to elevated levels of mortality, resulting in increased life insurance claims in the near- term. Across our Individual Solutions businesses, mandated social distancing has limited in-person engagement between customers and financial professionals. We have taken actions to expand our digital capabilities, which has mitigated the impact of these limitations however, collectively, we expect the product actions we have taken along with the constrained distribution environment to adversely impact our sales prospects in the near-term. Assurance IQ. Assurance IQ leverages data science and technology to distribute Medicare, health, life, property and casualty, and personal finance products directly to retail customers, primarily through its digital and independent agent channels. Assurance uses an open architecture platform, and the products it currently distributes are predominantly offered by third-parties. We expect that Assurance IQ will contribute to the growth of our U.S. Businesses and has the potential to enhance the growth of our International Businesses over time. We expect the impacts of COVID-19 on our Assurance IQ business to be limited as the business does not have direct exposure to capital market conditions or mortality however, consumer financial hardships and uncertainty created by the current economic conditions could negatively impact persistency and expected sales levels. In addition, during 2020 we experienced headwinds related to adapting components of the Assurance IQ distribution model to the remote work environment caused by COVID-19 however, we expect to mitigate these headwinds going forward through continued operational enhancements. International Businesses. Our International Businesses remain focused on meeting customers protection and financial needs as well as maintaining the underlying strength of our distribution channels. We continue to strengthen our position in Japan and seek to expand our footprint in select high-growth emerging markets. We continue to invest in our existing businesses and regularly assess acquisition opportunities to build scale, complement our businesses, and support our long- term growth aspirations. We also regularly evaluate strategic options for our businesses as part of ensuring their alignment with our broader business goals and strategic vision, and in 2020 we sold our life insurance operations in Korea and entered into an agreement to sell our life insurance operations in Taiwan. For additional information on our strategic acquisitions and dispositions, see Results of Operations by Segment International Insurance Division International Insurance below. these are manageable headwinds. During 2020, account values in our full-service business were impacted by the CARES Act, which provided qualified individuals the ability to withdraw from defined contribution plans and individual retirement accounts up to 100,000 penalty-free, with the withdrawal taxed over a three-year period (unless otherwise elected by the individual). We expect the impact on account values of the withdrawals made in 2020 to continue into 2021. In our pension risk transfer business, we expect our differentiated capabilities and demonstrated execution to drive our business momentum in the face of increasing competition while we maintain appropriate pricing and return expectations under changing market conditions. We expect, however, that growth will not be linear given the episodic nature of larger cases. Given that many of the products in our institutional investment products business assume longevity risk, elevated levels of mortality resulting from COVID-19 may continue to contribute to a higher level of underwriting gains in this business. In our Group Insurance business, we continue to focus on expanding our Premier market segment and affinity relations, while maintaining a leadership position in the National segment. However, we expect COVID-19 to continue to contribute to elevated levels of mortality resulting in increased life insurance claims in the near-term. In addition, we expect elevated unemployment to drive increased disability claims in this business. Market conditions may also continue to impact sales volumes and the utilization of workplace benefits across our Workplace Solutions businesses. In 2020, we saw a slightly elevated level of claims due to COVID-19 and increased expenses from supporting our captive agents. Sales throughout 2020 were impacted by the global implementation of social distancing protocols that limited in- person engagement between customers and advisors within both our captive agent and third-party distribution channels however, our distribution channels adapted quickly to employ virtual tools to adjust to these 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 71 425 Industry Trends variety of trends that affect the industries in which we compete. Financial and Economic Environment: Demographics: Regulatory Environment. See Business Regulation for a discussion of regulatory developments that may impact the Company and the associated risks. Competitive Environment. See Business for a discussion of the competitive environment and the basis on which we compete in each of our segments. Table of Contents Our U.S. and International Businesses are impacted by financial markets, economic conditions, regulatory oversight, and a U.S. Businesses. As discussed further under Impact of a Low Interest Rate Environment below, interest rates in the U.S. have experienced a sustained period of historically low levels, which continue to negatively impact our investment- related activity, including our investment income returns, net investment spread results, and portfolio income and reinvestment yields. In addition, we are subject to financial impacts associated with movements in equity markets and the evolution of the credit cycle as discussed in Segment Results of Operations where applicable and more broadly in Risk Factors . International Businesses. While our International Businesses operations, especially in Japan, have successfully managed a low interest rate environment for many years, as discussed under Impact of a Low Interest Rate Environment below, these low rates continue to negatively impact our investment-related activity, including our investment income returns, net investment spread results, and portfolio income and reinvestment yields. The current reinvestment yields for certain blocks of business are now generally lower than the current portfolio yields supporting these blocks of business. The continuation of low interest rates in the U.S., along with their relation to interest rates in Japan, may impact the relative attractiveness of U.S. dollar-denominated products compared to yen-denominated products in Japan. In addition, we are subject to financial impacts associated with movements in foreign currency rates, particularly the Japanese yen. Fluctuations in the value of the yen can impact the relative attractiveness to customers of both yen-denominated and non- yen denominated products. In addition, we are subject to financial impacts associated with movements in equity markets and the evolution of the credit cycle as discussed in Segment Results of Operations where applicable and more broadly in Risk Factors . U.S. Businesses. Customer demographics continue to evolve and new opportunities present themselves in different consumer segments such as the millennial and multicultural markets. Consumer expectations and preferences are changing. We believe existing customers and potential customers are increasingly looking for cost-effective solutions that they can easily understand and access through technology-enabled devices. At the same time, income protection, wealth accumulation and the needs of retiring baby boomers are continuing to shape the insurance industry. A persistent retirement security gap exists in terms of both savings and protection. Despite the ongoing phenomenon of the risk and responsibility of retirement savings shifting from employers to employees, employers are becoming increasingly focused on the financial wellness of the individuals they employ. International Businesses. Japan has an aging population as well as a large pool of household assets invested in low- yielding deposit and savings vehicles. The aging of Japan s population, along with strains on government pension and healthcare programs, have led to a growing demand for insurance products with a significant savings element (to meet savings and retirement needs as the population prepares for retirement) as well as health-related products. limitations. In January 2021, Japan declared its second state of emergency regarding COVID-19, which again installed social distancing protocols, although less restrictive than the first time. While the current state of emergency in Japan is not countrywide and is more focused on social activities, further tightening of COVID-19 restrictions on personal interactions either in Japan or in other markets is possible and, depending on the specific circumstances and geographies impacted, could adversely impact our sales prospects for a period of time. We believe our needs-based selling and death protection focus are even more valuable to consumers based on the global experience of COVID-19 and will help support the continued growth of our businesses. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 72 425 Impact of a Low Interest Rate Environment condition. Changes in interest rates can affect our results of operations and or our financial condition in several ways, including favorable or adverse impacts to: composition of our insurance liabilities and policyholder account balances and the hypothetical impacts to our investment-related results if these interest rate environments are sustained. significant lows. While market conditions and events make uncertain the timing, amount and impact of any monetary policy decisions by the Federal Reserve, changes in interest rates may impact our reinvestment yields, primarily for our investments in fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgage loans. As interest rates decline, our reinvestment yield may be below our overall portfolio yield, resulting in an unfavorable impact to earnings. Conversely, as interest rates rise, our reinvestment yield may exceed the overall portfolio yield resulting in a favorable impact to earnings. and Other operations, we estimate annual principal payments and prepayments that we would be required to reinvest to be approximately 5.4% of the fixed maturity security and commercial mortgage loan portfolios through 2022. The portion of the general account attributable to these operations has approximately 251 billion of such assets (based on net carrying value) as of December 31, 2020. The average portfolio yield for fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgage loans is approximately 3.9%, as of December 31, 2020. subject to call or redemption features at the issuer s option and have a weighted average interest rate of approximately 4%. Of this 172 billion, approximately 53% contain provisions for prepayment premiums. If we reinvest scheduled payments or prepayments (not subject to a prepayment fee) at rates below the current portfolio yield, including in some cases at rates below those guaranteed under our insurance contracts, future operating results will be impacted to the extent we do not, or are unable to, reduce crediting rates on in-force blocks of business, or effectively utilize other asset liability management strategies described below, in order to maintain current net interest margins. Closed Block Division, by type, for the date indicated: Long-duration insurance products with fixed and guaranteed terms 154 Contracts with adjustable crediting rates subject to guaranteed minimums 62 Participating contracts where investment income risk ultimately accrues to contractholders 14 Total 230 Table of Contents As a global financial services company, market interest rates are a key driver of our results of operations and financial For more information on interest rate risks, see Risk Factors Market Risk . See below for discussions related to the current interest rate environments in our two largest markets, the U.S. and Japan the U.S. Operations excluding the Closed Block Division Interest rates in the U.S. have experienced a sustained period of historically low levels with certain benchmarks reaching For the general account supporting our U.S. Individual Solutions division, U.S. Workplace Solutions division and our Corporate Included in the 251 billion of fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgage loans are approximately 172 billion that are The following table sets forth the insurance liabilities and policyholder account balances of our U.S. Operations excluding the investment-related activity, including: investment income returns, net interest margins, net investment spread results, new money rates, mortgage loan prepayments and bond redemptions hedging costs and other risk mitigation activities insurance reserve levels, market experience true-ups and amortization of both deferred policy acquisition costs ( DAC ) and value of business acquired ( VOBA ) customer account values, including their impact on fee income fair value of, and possible impairments on, intangible assets such as goodwill product offerings, design features, crediting rates and sales mix and policyholder behavior, including surrender or withdrawal activity. December 31, 2020 (in billions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 73 425 products that have fixed and guaranteed terms, for which underlying assets may have to be reinvested at interest rates that are lower than portfolio rates. We seek to mitigate the impact of a prolonged low interest rate environment on these contracts through asset liability management, as discussed further below. guaranteed minimums. Although we may have the ability to lower crediting rates for those contracts above guaranteed minimums, our willingness to do so may be limited by competitive pressures. The following table sets forth the related account values by range of guaranteed minimum crediting rates and the related range of the difference, in basis points ( bps ), between rates being credited to contractholders as of December 31, 2020, and the respective guaranteed minimums. (1) Includes approximately 0.56 billion related to contracts that impose a market value adjustment if the invested amount is not held to maturity. contracts for which the investment income risk is expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. The crediting rates for these contracts are periodically adjusted based on the return earned on the related assets. recent rates) for the period from January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021 (and credit spreads remain unchanged from average levels experienced during the fourth quarter 2020), we estimate that the unfavorable impact to net investment income of reinvesting activities, including scheduled maturities and estimated prepayments of fixed maturities and commercial mortgage and other loans (excluding assets supporting participating contracts) would be between 120 million and 160 million for the period from January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021. proactive asset liability management program, which includes strategic asset allocation and hedging strategies within a disciplined risk management framework. These strategies seek to match the characteristics of our products, and to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. Our asset liability management program also helps manage duration gaps, currency and other risks between assets and liabilities through the use of derivatives. We adjust this dynamic process as products change, as customer behavior changes and as changes in the market environment occur. As a result, our asset liability management process has permitted us to manage the interest rate risk associated with our products through several market cycles. Our interest rate exposure is also mitigated by our business mix, which includes lines of business for which fee-based and insurance underwriting earnings play a more prominent role in product profitability. We also regularly examine our product offerings and their profitability. As a result, we may reprice certain products and discontinue sales of other products that do not meet our profit expectations. relating to the Closed Block policies only. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Closed Block. Account Values with Adjustable Crediting Rates Subject to Guaranteed Minimums: ( in billions) Range of Guaranteed Minimum Crediting Rates: Less than 1.00% 0.9 1.2 0.3 0.0 0.0 2.4 1.00% - 1.99% 1.4 15.3 2.7 2.0 1.2 22.6 2.00% - 2.99% 1.3 0.9 2.0 1.2 1.3 6.7 3.00% - 4.00% 28.1 0.4 0.1 0.2 0.2 29.0 Greater than 4.00% 0.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.9 Total(1) 32.6 17.8 5.1 3.4 2.7 61.6 Percentage of total 53 % 29 % 8 % 6 % 4 % 100 % Table of Contents The 154 billion above relates to long-duration products such as group annuities, structured settlements and other insurance The 62 billion above relates to contracts with crediting rates that may be adjusted over the life of the contract, subject to The remaining 14 billion of insurance liabilities and policyholder account balances in these operations relates to participating Assuming a hypothetical scenario where the average 10-year U.S. Treasury rate is 0.85% (which is reasonably consistent with In order to mitigate the unfavorable impact that a low interest rate environment has on our net interest margins, we employ a Closed Block Division Substantially all of the 61 billion of general account assets in the Closed Block division support obligations and liabilities International Insurance Operations guaranteed bps above guaranteed bps above guaranteed bps above guaranteed Greater than guaranteed minimum Total 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 74 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 75 425 reinvestment yields for certain blocks of business in our international insurance operations are generally lower than the current portfolio yield supporting these blocks of business. In recent years, the Bank of Japan s monetary policy has resulted in even lower and, at times, negative yields for certain tenors of government bonds. Our international insurance operations employ a proactive asset liability management program in order to mitigate, to the extent possible, the unfavorable impact that the current interest rate environment has on our net interest margins. In conjunction with this program, we have not purchased negative yielding assets to support the portfolio and we continue to purchase long-term bonds with tenors of 30 years or greater. Additionally, our diverse product portfolio in terms of currency mix and premium payment structure allows us to further mitigate the negative impact from this low interest rate environment. We also regularly examine our product offerings and their profitability. As a result, we may reprice certain products, adjust commissions for certain products and discontinue sales of other products that do not meet our profit expectations. The impact of these actions and the introduction of certain new products has resulted in an increase in sales of U.S. dollar-denominated products relative to products denominated in other currencies. For additional information on sales within our international insurance operations, see International Businesses Sales Results, below. for the date indicated: underlying assets may have to be reinvested at interest rates that are lower than current portfolio yields. The remaining insurance liabilities and policyholder account balances include 26 billion related to contracts that impose a market value adjustment if the invested amount is not held to maturity and 12 billion related to contracts with crediting rates that may be adjusted over the life of the contract, subject to guaranteed minimums. Most of the current crediting rates on these contracts, however, are at or near contractual minimums. Although we have the ability in some cases to lower crediting rates for those contracts that are above guaranteed minimum crediting rates, the majority of this business has interest crediting rates that are determined by formula. Treasury rate is 0.85% (which is reasonably consistent with recent rates) for the period from January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021 (and credit spreads remain unchanged from average levels experienced during the fourth quarter 2020), we estimate that the unfavorable impact to net investment income of reinvesting activities, including scheduled maturities and estimated prepayments of fixed maturities and commercial mortgage and other loans (excluding assets supporting participating contracts) would be between 40 million and 80 million for the period from January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021. Consolidated Results of Operations (in billions) Insurance products with fixed and guaranteed terms 140 Contracts with a market value adjustment if invested amount is not held to maturity 26 Contracts with adjustable crediting rates subject to guaranteed minimums 12 Total 178 Table of Contents While our international insurance operations have experienced a low interest rate environment for many years, the current The following table sets forth the insurance liabilities and policyholder account balances of our Japanese operations, by type, The 140 billion is primarily comprised of long-duration insurance products that have fixed and guaranteed terms, for which Assuming a hypothetical scenario where the average 30-year Japanese Government Bond yield is 0.65% and the 10-year U.S. The following table summarizes net income (loss) for the periods presented: Results of Operations December 31, 2020 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 76 425 reflected the following notable items: Segment Results of Operations called adjusted operating income. See Segment Measures for a discussion of adjusted operating income and its use as a measure of segment operating performance. periods indicated and a reconciliation of this segment measure of performance to Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as presented in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Revenues 57,033 64,807 62,992 Benefits and expenses 57,356 59,722 58,158 Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures (323) 5,085 4,834 Income tax expense (benefit) (81) 947 822 Income (loss) before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures (242) 4,138 4,012 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes 96 100 76 Net income (loss) (146) 4,238 4,088 Less: Income attributable to noncontrolling interests 228 52 14 Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. (374) 4,186 4,074 Table of Contents 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. The 4,560 million decrease in Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. 2,801 million unfavorable variance, on a pre-tax basis, from realized investment gains and losses for Prudential Financial, Inc. excluding Divested and Run-off Businesses, and excluding the impact of the hedging program associated with certain variable annuities discussed below (see General Account Investments for additional information) 1,444 million unfavorable variance, on a pre-tax basis, from a loss in the current period from our Divested and Run-off Businesses compared to a gain in the prior year period (see Results of Operations by Segment Divested and Run-off Businesses for additional information) 707 million unfavorable variance, on a pre-tax basis, from lower adjusted operating income from our business segments (see Segment Results of Operations for additional information) 351 million unfavorable variance, on a pre-tax basis, reflecting the impact from changes in the value of our embedded derivatives and related hedge positions, net of DAC and other costs, associated with certain variable annuities (see Results of Operations by Segment U.S. Businesses U.S. Individual Solutions Division Individual Annuities Risks and Risk Mitigants for additional information) and 339 million unfavorable variance, on a pre-tax basis, from investment related activities that are primarily within Other income (loss) for PFI excluding our Divested and Run-off Businesses. These unfavorable impacts were primarily driven by unrealized gains (losses) from equity securities. Partially offsetting these decreases in Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. was the following item: 1,028 million favorable variance from a lower tax expense. We analyze the performance of our segments and Corporate and Other operations using a measure of segment profitability Shown below are the adjusted operating income contributions of each segment and Corporate and Other operations for the 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 77 425 (1) Assurance IQ was acquired by the Company in October 2019. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Assurance IQ for additional information. (2) Effective second quarter of 2020, the results of POK and the impact of its sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Effective third quarter of 2020, the results of POT and the impact of its anticipated sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (3) Represents Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See General Account Investments and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. (4) Includes charges that represent the impact of realized investment gains (losses), net, on the amortization of DAC and other costs, and on changes in reserves. Also includes charges resulting from payments related to market value adjustment features of certain of our annuity products and the impact of realized investment gains (losses), net, on the amortization of Unearned Revenue Reserves ( URR ). Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. (5) Represents the immediate impacts in current period results from changes in current market conditions on estimates of profitability, which are excluded from adjusted operating income beginning with the second quarter of 2019. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. (6) Represents the contribution to income (loss) of Divested and Run-off Businesses that have been or will be sold or exited, including businesses that have been placed in wind down, but that did not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. See Divested and Run-off Businesses for additional information. (7) Represents adjustments not included in the above reconciling items. Other adjustments include certain components of the consideration for the Assurance IQ acquisition, which are recognized as compensation expense over the requisite service periods, as well as changes in the fair value of contingent consideration. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (8) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures are included in adjusted operating income but excluded from Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on an after-tax U.S. GAAP basis as a separate line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are excluded from adjusted operating income but included in Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis as a separate Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Adjusted operating income before income taxes by segment: Reconciling items: Consolidated income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures (323) 5,085 4,834 PGIM 1,262 998 959 U.S. Businesses: International Businesses(2) 2,952 3,112 3,019 Corporate and Other (1,824) (1,766) (1,283) Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(3) (4,156) (835) 611 Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net(4) (159) (123) (315) Market experience updates(5) (640) (449) 0 Divested and Run-off Businesses(6): Other adjustments(7) 51 (47) 0 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests(8) 90 (103) (87) Table of Contents Closed Block division (24) 36 (62) Other Divested and Run-off Businesses(2) (629) 755 (1,434) U.S. Workplace Solutions division: U.S. Individual Solutions division: Assurance IQ division(1): Total segment adjusted operating income before income taxes 5,144 5,851 6,121 Retirement 1,436 1,301 1,049 Group Insurance (16) 285 229 Individual Annuities 1,470 1,843 1,925 Individual Life (48) 87 223 Assurance IQ (88) (9) 0 Total U.S. Workplace Solutions division 1,420 1,586 1,278 Total U.S. Individual Solutions division 1,422 1,930 2,148 Total Assurance IQ division (88) (9) 0 Total U.S. Businesses 2,754 3,507 3,426 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 78 425 line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represent the portion of earnings from consolidated entities that relates to the equity interests of minority investors. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 79 425 related revenues, partially offset by higher expenses. annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding this item, results increased primarily driven by higher reserve gains and lower expenses. our group life and group disability businesses, and lower net investment spread results. our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding this item, results decreased primarily driven by lower fee income, net of distribution expenses and other associated costs. annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding this item, results decreased primarily reflecting lower underwriting results, and a change in business practice related to the level of premiums collected on certain policies that resulted in reserve refinements. October 2019. The loss reflects net revenues that were more than offset by operating expenses as well as amortization expenses related to intangible assets recognized as part of purchase accounting (see Note 1 and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). currency exchange rates and unfavorable comparative net impacts from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding these items, results decreased primarily reflecting lower net investment spread results and lower earnings from our joint venture investments, partially offset by favorable underwriting results including business growth. income and higher interest expense on debt, partially offset by lower charges related to corporate costs and initiatives, as well as favorable pension and employee benefit results. results, partially offset by a decrease in the policyholder dividend obligation. Segment Measures operating income. Adjusted operating income does not equate to Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures or Net income (loss) as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, but is the measure of segment profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources, and consistent with authoritative guidance, is our measure of segment performance. The adjustments to derive adjusted operating income are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies however, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our businesses. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the presentation of segment results and our definition of adjusted operating income. analyze annualized new business premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP. Annualized new business premiums measure the current sales performance of the business, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal persistency of policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales. Annualized new business premiums include 10% of first year premiums or deposits from single pay products. No other adjustments are made for limited pay contracts. Table of Contents Segment results for 2020 presented above reflect the following: PGIM. Results for 2020 increased in comparison to 2019, primarily reflecting an increase in asset management fees and other Retirement. Results for 2020 increased in comparison to 2019, including an unfavorable comparative net impact from our Group Insurance. Results for 2020 decreased in comparison to 2019, primarily reflecting less favorable underwriting results in Individual Annuities. Results for 2020 decreased in comparison to 2019, including an unfavorable comparative net impact from Individual Life. Results for 2020 decreased in comparison to 2019, including a favorable comparative net impact from our Assurance IQ. Results for 2020 were (88) million in our first full year of reporting since our acquisition of the business in International Businesses. Results for 2020 decreased in comparison to 2019, inclusive of unfavorable net impacts from foreign Corporate and Other. Results for 2020 reflected increased losses in comparison to 2019, primarily driven by lower investment Closed Block Division. Results for 2020 decreased in comparison to 2019, primarily driven by lower net investment activity Adjusted Operating Income. In managing our business, we analyze our segments operating performance using adjusted Annualized New Business Premiums. In managing our Individual Life, Group Insurance and International Businesses, we 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 80 425 including but not limited to: addition of new products, discontinuation of existing products, changes in credited interest rates for certain products and other product modifications, changes in premium rates, changes in tax laws, changes in regulations or changes in the competitive environment. Sales volume may increase or decrease prior to certain of these changes becoming effective, and then fluctuate in the other direction following such changes. directly to U.S. GAAP assets) because the principal source of revenues is fees based on assets under management. Assets under management represent the fair market value or account value of assets which we manage directly for institutional clients, retail clients, and for our general account, as well as assets invested in our products that are managed by third-party managers. correspond to U.S. GAAP assets. Net sales (redemptions) in our Individual Annuities business and net additions (withdrawals) in our Retirement business do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP, but are used as a relevant measure of business activity. Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Foreign currency exchange rate movements and related hedging strategies currency exchange rate movements that could impact our U.S. dollar ( USD )-equivalent earnings and shareholder return on equity. Our USD-equivalent earnings could be materially affected by currency fluctuations from period to period, even if earnings on a local currency basis are relatively constant. Our USD-equivalent equity is impacted as the value of our investment in international operations may also fluctuate based on changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We seek to mitigate these impacts through various hedging strategies, including the use of derivative contracts and by holding USD-denominated assets in certain of our foreign subsidiaries. derivative contracts to effectively fix the currency exchange rates for a portion of our prospective non-USD-denominated earnings streams. This forward currency hedging program is primarily associated with our insurance operations in Japan. that calibrates the hedge level to preserve the relative contribution of our yen-based business to the Company s overall return on equity on a leverage neutral basis. We implement this hedging strategy utilizing a variety of instruments, including USD-denominated assets, foreign currency derivative contracts, and dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments held locally in our Japanese insurance subsidiaries. The total hedge level may vary based on our periodic assessment of the relative contribution of our yen-based business to the Company s overall return on equity. movements on our USD-equivalent shareholder return on equity from our Japanese insurance subsidiaries as of the dates indicated. (1) Includes USD-denominated fixed maturities at amortized cost plus any related accrued investment income, as well as USD notional amount of foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding. Note this amount represents only those USD assets serving to hedge the impact of foreign currency volatility on equity. Separate from this program, our Japanese operations also have 65.8 billion and 57.8 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, of USD-denominated assets supporting USD-denominated liabilities related to USD-denominated products. December 31, (in billions) Foreign currency hedging instruments: Hedging USD-equivalent earnings: Hedging USD-equivalent equity: Total foreign currency hedges 11.0 14.3 Total USD-equivalent equity foreign currency hedging instruments 10.6 13.7 Forward currency contracts (notional amount outstanding) 0.4 0.6 USD-denominated assets held in yen-based entities(1) 10.1 13.1 Dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments(2) 0.5 0.6 Table of Contents The amount of annualized new business premiums for any given period can be significantly impacted by several factors, Assets Under Management. In managing our PGIM business, we analyze assets under management (which do not correspond Account Values. In managing our Individual Annuities and Retirement businesses, we analyze account values, which do not As a U.S.-based company with significant business operations outside the U.S., particularly in Japan, we are subject to foreign In order to reduce earnings volatility from foreign currency exchange rate movements, we enter into forward currency In order to reduce equity volatility from foreign currency exchange rate movements, we primarily utilize a yen hedging strategy The table below presents the aggregate amount of instruments that serve to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 81 425 earnings and shareholder return on equity from our Japanese insurance operations are reported within yen-based entities and, as a result, foreign currency exchange rate movements will impact their value reported within our yen-based Japanese insurance entities. We seek to mitigate the risk that future unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements will decrease the value of these USD- denominated investments reported within our yen-based Japanese insurance entities, and therefore negatively impact their equity and regulatory solvency margins, by having our Japanese insurance operations enter into currency hedging transactions. Those hedges are with a subsidiary of Prudential Financial. These hedging strategies have the economic effect of moving the change in value of these USD-denominated investments due to foreign currency exchange rate movements from our Japanese yen-based entities to our USD- based entities. investment would pay. The incremental impact of this higher yield on our USD-denominated investments, as well as our dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments, will vary over time, and is dependent on the duration of the underlying investments as well as interest rate environments in both the U.S. and Japan at the time of the investments. Impact of intercompany foreign currency exchange rate arrangements on segment results of operations Corporate and Other operations pursuant to which these segments non-USD-denominated earnings are translated at fixed currency exchange rates. Results of our Corporate and Other operations include differences between the translation adjustments recorded by the segments at the fixed currency exchange rate versus the actual average rate during the period. In addition, specific to our International Businesses where we hedge certain currencies, the results of our Corporate and Other operations also include the impact of any gains or losses recorded from the forward currency contracts that settled during the period, which include the impact of any over or under hedging of actual earnings that differ from projected earnings. income hedging program designed to mitigate the impact of exchange rate changes on the segment s expected USD-equivalent earnings. Pursuant to this program, our Corporate and Other operations execute forward currency contracts with third parties to sell the net exposure of projected earnings for certain currencies in exchange for USD at specified exchange rates. The maturities of these contracts correspond with the future periods (typically on a three-year rolling basis) in which the identified non-USD-denominated earnings are expected to be generated. In establishing the level of non-USD-denominated earnings that will be hedged through this program, we exclude the anticipated level of USD-denominated earnings that will be generated by USD-denominated products and investments. For the year ended December 31, 2020, approximately 2% of the segment s earnings were yen-based and, as of December 31, 2020, we have hedged 100%, 72% and 31% of expected yen-based earnings for 2021, 2022 and 2023, respectively. To the extent currently unhedged, our International Businesses future expected USD-equivalent of yen-based earnings will be impacted by yen exchange rate movements. yen-denominated earnings at fixed currency exchange rates of 104, 105, and 111 yen per USD, respectively. We expect our 2021 results to reflect the impact of translating yen-denominated earnings at a fixed currency exchange rate of 103 yen per USD. Since determination of the fixed currency exchange rates for a given year is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates over time, the segment s future earnings will ultimately be impacted by these changes in exchange rates. year are predetermined during the third quarter of the prior year using forward currency exchange rates. International Businesses, PGIM and Corporate and Other operations, reflecting the impact of these intercompany arrangements. (2) Dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments are held by our yen-based entities in the form of fixed maturities and loans with a yen- denominated principal component and USD-denominated interest income. The amounts shown represent the present value of future USD- denominated cash flows. Table of Contents The USD-denominated investments that hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on USD-equivalent These USD-denominated investments also pay a coupon which is generally higher than what a similar yen-denominated The financial results of our International Businesses and PGIM reflect the impact of intercompany arrangements with our For International Businesses, the fixed currency exchange rates are generally determined in connection with a foreign currency As a result of these arrangements, our International Businesses results for 2020, 2019 and 2018 reflect the impact of translating For PGIM and certain other currencies within our International Businesses, the fixed currency exchange rates for the current The table below presents, for the periods indicated, the increase (decrease) to revenues and adjusted operating income for the 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 82 425 (1) Represents the difference between non-USD-denominated earnings translated on the basis of weighted average monthly currency exchange rates versus fixed currency exchange rates determined in connection with the foreign currency income hedging program. Impact of products denominated in non-local currencies on U.S. GAAP earnings denominated in non-local currencies. This is most notable in our Japanese operations, which currently offer primarily USD- denominated products, but have also historically offered Australian dollar ( AUD )-denominated products. The non-local currency- denominated insurance liabilities related to these products are supported by investments denominated in corresponding currencies, including a significant portion designated as available-for-sale. While the impact from foreign currency exchange rate movements on these non-local currency-denominated assets and liabilities is economically matched, differences in the accounting for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements have historically resulted in volatility in U.S. GAAP earnings. businesses into separate divisions, each with its own functional currency that aligns with the underlying products and investments. The result of this alignment was to reduce differences in the accounting for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities that arise due to changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements. For the USD- and AUD-denominated assets that were transferred under this structure, the net cumulative unrealized investment gains associated with foreign exchange remeasurement that were recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( AOCI ) totaled 2.3 billion and 2.7 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and will be recognized in earnings within Realized investment gains (losses), net over time as these assets mature or are sold. Absent the sale of any of these assets prior to their stated maturity, approximately 13% of the 2.3 billion balance as of December 31, 2020 will be recognized in 2021, approximately 11% will be recognized in 2022, and the remaining balance will be recognized from 2023 through 2051. Highly inflationary economy in Argentina functional currency given it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. During 2018, Argentina experienced a cumulative inflation rate that exceeded 100% over a 3-year period. As a result, Argentina s economy was deemed to be highly inflationary resulting in reporting changes effective July 1, 2018. Under U.S. GAAP, the financial statements of a foreign entity in a highly inflationary economy are to be remeasured as if its functional currency (formerly the Argentine peso) is the reporting currency of its parent reporting entity (the USD) on a prospective basis. While this changed how the results of POA are remeasured and or translated into USD, the impact to our financial statements was not material nor is it expected to be material in future periods given the relative size of our POA operations. It should also be noted that due to the macroeconomic environment in Argentina, substantially all of POA s balance sheet consists of USD-denominated product liabilities supported by USD-denominated assets. As a result, this accounting change serves to reduce the remeasurement Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Segment impacts of intercompany arrangements: Corporate and Other: Net impact on consolidated revenues and adjusted operating income 67 55 (1) (2) As of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the total notional amounts of these forward currency contracts within our Corporate and Other operations were 1.0 billion, 1.3 billion and 2.1 billion, respectively, of which 0.4 billion, 0.6 billion and 1.3 billion, respectively, were related to our Japanese insurance operations. (3) Excludes impacts related to POK. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. Effective second quarter of 2020, the intercompany arrangement for the Korean won between our International Businesses and Corporate and Other operations was terminated and the related hedges were repurposed in relation to the anticipated sale of POK. Effective second quarter of 2020, Korean won- denominated earnings for 2020 and 2019 that were translated at fixed currency exchange rates of 1,090 and 1,110 Korean won per USD, respectively, are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses included in Corporate and Other. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. International Businesses(3) 64 39 21 PGIM (4) 6 0 Table of Contents While our international insurance operations offer products denominated in local currency, several also offer products In 2015, we implemented a structure in Gibraltar Life s operations that disaggregated the USD- and AUD-denominated Our insurance operations in Argentina, Prudential of Argentina ( POA ), have historically utilized the Argentine peso as the Impact of intercompany arrangements(1) 60 45 21 Impact of intercompany arrangements(1)(3) (60) (45) (21) Settlement gains (losses) on forward currency contracts(2)(3) 67 55 (1) Net benefit (detriment) to Corporate and Other 7 10 (22) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 83 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 84 425 impact reflected in net income given that the functional currency and currency in which the assets and liabilities are denominated will be more closely aligned. Application of Critical Accounting Estimates involve a significant degree of judgment. Management, on an ongoing basis, reviews estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements. If management determines that modifications in assumptions and estimates are appropriate given current facts and circumstances, the Company s results of operations and financial position as reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements could change significantly. are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions and require management s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments. Insurance Assets Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducements primarily include commissions, as well as costs of policy issuance and underwriting and certain other expenses that are directly related to successfully negotiated contracts. We have also deferred costs associated with sales inducements related to our variable and fixed annuity contracts primarily within our Individual Annuities segment. Sales inducements are amounts that are credited to the policyholders account balances mainly as an inducement to purchase the contract. For additional information about sales inducements, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We generally amortize DAC and deferred sales inducements ( DSI ) over the expected lives of the contracts, based on our estimates of the level and timing of gross premiums, gross profits, or gross margins, depending on the type of contract. As described in more detail below, in calculating DAC and DSI amortization, we are required to make assumptions about investment returns, mortality, persistency, and other items that impact our estimates of the level and timing of gross margins, gross profits, or gross premiums. We also periodically evaluate the recoverability of our DAC and DSI. For certain contracts, this evaluation is performed as part of our premium deficiency testing, as discussed further below in Insurance Liabilities Future Policy Benefits. As of December 31, 2020, DAC and DSI for PFI excluding the Closed Block division were 18.8 billion and 0.8 billion, respectively, and DAC in our Closed Block division was 209 million. life, term life, endowment and health policies of our International Businesses segment, is primarily amortized in proportion to gross premiums. Gross premiums are defined as the premiums charged to a policyholder for an insurance contract. Businesses segments and the variable and fixed annuity contracts of our Individual Annuities and International Businesses segments, are generally amortized over the expected lives of these policies in proportion to total gross profits. Total gross profits include both actual gross profits and estimates of gross profits for future periods. Gross profits are defined as: i) amounts assessed for mortality, contract administration, surrender charges, and other assessments plus amounts earned from investment of policyholder balances, less ii) benefits in excess of policyholder balances, costs incurred for contract administration, the net cost of reinsurance for certain businesses, interest credited to policyholder balances and other credits. If significant negative gross profits are expected in any periods, the amount of insurance in force is generally substituted as the base for computing amortization. U.S. GAAP gross profits and amortization rates also include the impacts of the embedded derivatives associated with certain of the optional living benefit features of our variable annuity contracts, and index-linked crediting features of certain universal life and annuity contracts and related hedging activities. For additional information on the significant inputs to the valuation models for these embedded derivatives including capital market assumptions and actuarially-determined assumptions, see below Insurance Liabilities Future Policy Benefits. In calculating amortization expense, we estimate the amounts of gross profits that will be included in our U.S. GAAP results and in adjusted operating income, and utilize these estimates to calculate distinct amortization rates and expense amounts. We also regularly evaluate and adjust the related DAC and DSI balances with a corresponding charge or credit to current period earnings for the impact of actual gross profits and changes in our projections of estimated future gross profits on our DAC and DSI amortization rates. Adjustments to the DAC and DSI balances include the impact to our estimate of total gross profits of the annual review of assumptions, our Table of Contents The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires the application of accounting policies that often The following sections discuss the accounting policies applied in preparing our financial statements that management believes We capitalize costs that are directly related to the acquisition or renewal of insurance and annuity contracts. These costs Amortization methodologies Gross Premiums. DAC, associated with the non-participating term life policies of our Individual Life segment and the whole Gross Profits. DAC and DSI, associated with the variable and universal life policies of our Individual Life and International Accounting Policies & Pronouncements 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 85 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 86 425 quarterly adjustments for current period experience, and our quarterly adjustments for market performance. Each of these adjustments is further discussed below in Annual assumptions review and quarterly adjustments. lives of these contracts in proportion to total gross margins. Total gross margins are defined as: i) amounts received from premiums, earned from investment of policyholder balances and other assessments, less ii) benefits paid, costs for contract administration, changes in the net level premium reserve for death and endowment benefits, annual policyholder dividends and other credits. We evaluate our estimates of future gross margins and adjust the related DAC balance with a corresponding charge or credit to current period earnings for the effects of actual gross margins and changes in our expected future gross margins. DAC adjustments for these participating products generally have not created significant volatility in our results of operations since many of the factors that affect gross margins are also included in the determination of our dividends to these policyholders and, during most years, the Closed Block has recognized a cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense in Policyholders dividends, for the excess of actual cumulative earnings over expected cumulative earnings as determined at the time of demutualization. However, if actual cumulative earnings fall below expected cumulative earnings in future periods, thereby eliminating the cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense, changes in gross margins and DAC amortization would result in a net impact to the Closed Block results of operations. As of December 31, 2020, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was 2,920 million. associated with products in our Group Insurance and Retirement segments, which comprised approximately 2% of the Company s total DAC and DSI balances as of December 31, 2020. last several years, the Company s most significant assumption updates that have resulted in a change to expected future gross profits and the amortization of DAC and DSI have been related to lapse and other contractholder behavior assumptions, mortality, and revisions to expected future rates of returns on investments. These assumptions may also cause potential significant variability in amortization expense in the future. The impact on our results of operations of changes in these assumptions can be offsetting and we are unable to predict their movement or offsetting impact over time. profits for a given period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for that period. To the extent each period s actual experience differs from the previous estimate for that period, the assumed level of total gross profits may change. In these cases, we recognize a cumulative adjustment to all previous periods amortization, also referred to as an experience true-up adjustment. profits to reflect actual fund performance and market conditions. A significant portion of gross profits for our variable annuity contracts and, to a lesser degree, our variable life contracts are dependent upon the total rate of return on assets held in separate account investment options. This rate of return influences the fees we earn on variable annuity and variable life contracts, costs we incur associated with the guaranteed minimum death and guaranteed minimum income benefit features related to our variable annuity contracts and expected claims to be paid on variable life contracts, as well as other sources of profit. Returns that are higher than our expectations for a given period produce higher than expected account balances, which increase the future fees we expect to earn on variable annuity and variable life contracts and decrease the future costs we expect to incur associated with the guaranteed minimum death and guaranteed minimum income benefit features related to our variable annuity contracts and expected claims to be paid on variable life contracts. The opposite occurs when returns are lower than our expectations. The changes in future expected gross profits are used to recognize a cumulative adjustment to all prior periods amortization. each product type, including asset durations, asset allocations and other factors. With regard to equity market assumptions, the near- term future rate of return assumption used in evaluating DAC and DSI for our domestic variable annuity and domestic and international variable life insurance products is derived using a reversion to the mean approach, a common industry practice. Under this approach, we consider historical equity returns and adjust projected equity returns over an initial future period of five years (the near-term ) so that equity returns converge to the long-term expected rate of return. If the near-term projected future rate of return is greater than our near-term maximum future rate of return of 15.0%, we use our maximum future rate of return. As of December 31, 2020, our domestic variable annuities and variable life insurance businesses assume an 8.0% long-term equity expected rate of return and a 1.3% near-term mean reversion equity expected rate of return, and our Table of Contents Gross Margins. DAC associated with the traditional participating products of our Closed Block is amortized over the expected The amortization methodologies for products not discussed above primarily relate to less significant DAC and DSI balances Annual assumptions review and quarterly adjustments Annually, we perform a comprehensive review of the assumptions used in estimating gross profits for future periods. Over the The quarterly adjustments for current period experience referred to above reflect the impact of differences between actual gross The quarterly adjustments for market performance referred to above reflect the impact of changes to our estimate of total gross The weighted average rate of return assumptions used in developing estimated market returns consider many factors specific to 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 87 425 international variable life insurance business assumes a 4.8% long-term equity expected rate of return and a 1.5% near-term mean reversion equity expected rate of return. used to project fixed income returns annually and quarterly, respectively. As a result of our 2020 annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, we reduced our long-term expectation of the (i) 10-year U.S. Treasury rate by 50 basis points and now grade to a rate of 3.25% over ten years, and (ii) 10-year Japanese Government Bond yield by 30 basis points and now grade to a rate of 1.00% over ten years. As part of our quarterly market experience updates, we update our near-term projections of interest rates to reflect changes in current rates. to the stated value of acquired in-force insurance contract liabilities to present them at fair value, determined as of the acquisition date. VOBA is amortized over the expected life of the acquired contracts using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC and DSI (see Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducements above for additional information). VOBA is also subject to recoverability testing. As of December 31, 2020, VOBA was 1.1 billion, and included 0.9 billion related to the acquisition from American International Group ( AIG ) of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd, AIG Edison Life Insurance Company, AIG Financial Assurance Japan K.K. and AIG Edison Service Co., Ltd. (collectively, the Star and Edison Businesses ) in 2011. The remaining 0.2 billion primarily relates to previously-acquired traditional life, deferred annuity, defined contribution and defined benefit businesses. The VOBA associated with the in-force contracts of the Star and Edison Businesses is less sensitive to assumption changes, as the majority is amortized in proportion to gross premiums which are more predictably stable compared to gross profits. Insurance Liabilities Future Policy Benefits GAAP. The reserving methodologies used include the following: For most long-duration contracts, we utilize a net premium valuation methodology in measuring the liability for future policy benefits. Under this methodology, a liability for future policy benefits is accrued when premium revenue is recognized. The liability, which represents the present value of future benefits to be paid to or on behalf of policyholders and related expenses less the present value of future net premiums (portion of the gross premium required to provide for all benefits and expenses), is estimated using methods that include assumptions applicable at the time the insurance contracts are made with provisions for the risk of adverse deviation, as appropriate. Original assumptions continue to be used in subsequent accounting periods to determine changes in the liability for future policy benefits (often referred to as the lock- in concept ), unless a premium deficiency exists. The result of the net premium valuation methodology is that the liability at any point in time represents an accumulation of the portion of premiums received to date expected to be needed to fund future benefits (i.e., net premiums received to date), less any benefits and expenses already paid. The liability does not necessarily reflect the full policyholder obligation the Company expects to pay at the conclusion of the contract since a portion of that obligation would be funded by net premiums received in the future and would be recognized in the liability at that time. We perform premium deficiency tests using best estimate assumptions as of the testing date without provisions for adverse deviation. If the liabilities determined based on these best estimate assumptions are greater than the net reserves (i.e., GAAP reserves net of any DAC, DSI or VOBA asset), the existing net reserves are adjusted by first reducing these assets by the amount of the deficiency or to zero through a charge to current period earnings. If the deficiency is more than these asset balances for insurance contracts, we then increase the net reserves by the excess, again through a charge to current period earnings. If a premium deficiency is recognized, the assumptions as of the premium deficiency test date are locked-in and used in subsequent valuations and the net reserves continue to be subject to premium deficiency testing. In addition, for limited-payment contracts, future policy benefit reserves also include a deferred profit liability representing gross premiums received in excess of net premiums. The deferred profits are generally recognized in revenue in a constant relationship with insurance in force or with the amount of expected future benefit payments. For certain contract features, such as those related to guaranteed minimum death benefits ( GMDB ), guaranteed minimum income benefits ( GMIB ) and no-lapse guarantees, a liability is established when associated assessments (which include policy charges for administration, mortality, expense, surrender, and other, regardless of how characterized) are recognized. This liability is established using current best estimate assumptions and is based on the Table of Contents With regard to interest rate assumptions used in evaluating DAC and DSI, we update the long-term and near-term future rates Value of Business Acquired In addition to DAC and DSI, we also recognize an asset for VOBA. VOBA is an intangible asset that represents an adjustment Future Policy Benefit Reserves, including Unpaid Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses We establish reserves for future policy benefits to, or on behalf of, policyholders using methodologies prescribed by U.S. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 88 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 89 425 other factors, as applicable. We update our actuarial assumptions, such as mortality, morbidity, retirement and policyholder behavior assumptions, annually, unless a material change is observed in an interim period that we feel is indicative of a long-term trend. Generally, we do not expect trends to change significantly in the short-term and, to the extent these trends may change, we expect such changes to be gradual over the long-term. In a sustained low interest rate environment, there is an increased likelihood that the reserves determined based on best estimate assumptions may be greater than the net liabilities. 2020, represented 42% of our total future policy benefit reserves, primarily relate to non-participating whole life and term life products and endowment contracts, and are generally calculated using the net premium valuation methodology, as described above. The primary assumptions used in determining expected future benefits and expenses include mortality, lapse, morbidity, investment yield and maintenance expense assumptions. Reserves also include claims reported but not yet paid, and claims incurred but not yet reported. In addition, future policy benefit reserves for certain contracts also include amounts related to our deferred profit liability, as described above. For certain product guarantees, primarily certain optional living benefit features of the variable annuity products in our Individual Annuities segment including guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ( GMAB ), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ( GMWB ) and guaranteed minimum income and withdrawal benefits ( GMIWB ), the benefits are accounted for as embedded derivatives using a fair value accounting framework. The fair value of these contracts is calculated as the present value of expected future benefit payments to contractholders less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. Under U.S. GAAP, the fair values of these benefit features are based on assumptions a market participant would use in valuing these embedded derivatives. Changes in the fair value of the embedded derivatives are recorded quarterly through a benefit or charge to current period earnings. For additional information regarding the valuation of these embedded derivatives, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In certain instances, the policyholder liability for a particular line of business may not be deficient in the aggregate to trigger loss recognition, but the pattern of earnings may be such that profits are expected to be recognized in earlier years followed by losses in later years. In these situations, accounting standards require that an additional liability (Profits Followed by Losses or PFL liability) be recognized by an amount necessary to sufficiently offset the losses that would be recognized in later years. The PFL liability is based on our current estimate of the present value of the amount necessary to offset losses anticipated in future periods. Because the liability is measured on a discounted basis, there will also be accretion into future earnings through an interest charge, and the liability will ultimately be released into earnings as an offset to future losses. Historically, the Company s PFL liabilities have been predominantly associated with certain universal life contracts that measure net GAAP reserves using current best estimate assumptions and accordingly, have been updated each quarter using current in-force and market data and as part of the annual assumption update. At the target accrual date (i.e., date of peak deficiency), the PFL liability transitions to a premium deficiency reserve and, for universal life products, will continue to be updated each quarter using current in-force and market data and as part of the annual assumption update. Table of Contents The assumptions used in establishing reserves are generally based on the Company s experience, industry experience and or The following paragraphs provide additional details about the reserves we have established: International Businesses. The reserves for future policy benefits of our International Businesses, which as of December 31, ratio of the present value of total expected excess payments (e.g., payments in excess of account value) over the life of the contract divided by the present value of total expected assessments (i.e., benefit ratio). The liability equals the current benefit ratio multiplied by cumulative assessments recognized to date, plus interest, less cumulative excess payments to date. The result of the benefit ratio method is that the liability at any point in time represents an accumulation of the portion of assessments received to date expected to be needed to fund future excess payments, less any excess payments already paid. The liability does not necessarily reflect the full policyholder obligation the Company expects to pay at the conclusion of the contract since a portion of that excess payment would be funded by assessments received in the future and would be recognized in the liability at that time. Similar to as described above for DAC, the reserves are subject to adjustments based on annual reviews of assumptions and quarterly adjustments for experience, including market performance. These adjustments reflect the impact on the benefit ratio of using actual historical experience from the issuance date to the balance sheet date plus updated estimates of future experience. The updated benefit ratio is then applied to all prior periods assessments to derive an adjustment to the reserve recognized through a benefit or charge to current period earnings. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 90 425 22% of our total future policy benefit reserves, primarily relate to our non-participating life contingent group annuity and structured settlement products and are generally calculated using the net premium valuation methodology, as described above. The primary assumptions used in establishing these reserves include mortality, retirement, maintenance expense and investment yield assumptions. In addition, future policy benefit reserves for certain contracts also include amounts related to our deferred profit liability, as described above. 2020, represented 7% of our total future policy benefit reserves, primarily relate to reserves for the GMDB and GMIB features of our variable annuities, and for the optional living benefit features that are accounted for as embedded derivatives. As discussed above, in establishing reserves for GMDBs and GMIBs, we utilize current best estimate assumptions. The primary assumptions used in establishing these reserves generally include annuitization, lapse, withdrawal and mortality assumptions, as well as interest rate and equity market return assumptions. Lapse rates are adjusted at the contract level based on the in-the-moneyness of the benefit and reflect other factors, such as the applicability of any surrender charges. Lapse rates are reduced when contracts are more in-the- money. Lapse rates are also generally assumed to be lower for the period where surrender charges apply. For life contingent payout annuity contracts, we establish reserves using best estimate assumptions with provisions for adverse deviations as of inception or best estimate assumptions as of the most recent loss recognition event. embedded derivatives at fair value, as described above. This methodology could result in either a liability or contra-liability balance, given changing capital market conditions and various actuarial assumptions. Since there is no observable active market for the transfer of these obligations, the valuations are calculated using internally-developed models with option pricing techniques. The models are based on a risk neutral valuation framework and incorporate premiums for risks inherent in valuation techniques, inputs, and the general uncertainty around the timing and amount of future cash flows. The significant inputs to the valuation models for these embedded derivatives include capital market assumptions, such as interest rate levels and volatility assumptions, the Company s market-perceived risk of its own non-performance risk ( NPR ), as well as actuarially-determined assumptions, including mortality rates and contractholder behavior, such as lapse rates, benefit utilization rates and withdrawal rates. Capital market inputs and actual contractholders account values are updated each quarter based on capital market conditions as of the end of the quarter, including interest rates, equity markets and volatility. In the risk neutral valuation, the initial swap curve drives the total returns used to grow the contractholders account values. The Company s discount rate assumption is based on the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) swap curve adjusted for an additional spread, which includes an estimate of NPR. Actuarial assumptions, including contractholder behavior and mortality, are reviewed at least annually, and updated based upon emerging experience, future expectations and other data, including any observable market data, such as available industry studies or market transactions such as acquisitions and reinsurance transactions. For additional information regarding the valuation of these optional living benefit features, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. represented 7% of our total future policy benefit reserves, primarily relate to term life, universal life and variable life products. For term life contracts, the future policy benefit reserves are generally calculated using the net premium valuation methodology, as described above. The primary assumptions used in determining expected future benefits and expenses include mortality, lapse, investment yield and maintenance expense assumptions. For variable and universal life products, which include universal life contracts that contain no-lapse guarantees, reserves for future policy benefits are primarily established using the reserving methodology for GMDB and GMIB contracts. As discussed above, in establishing reserves for GMDBs and GMIBs, we utilize current best estimate assumptions. The primary assumptions used in establishing these reserves generally include mortality, lapse, and premium pattern, as well as interest rate and equity market return assumptions. Reserves also include claims reported but not yet paid, and claims incurred but not yet reported. represented 2% of our total future policy benefit reserves, primarily relate to reserves for group life and disability benefits. For short- duration contracts, a liability is established when the claim is incurred. The reserves for group life and disability benefits also include a liability for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses, which relates primarily to the group long-term disability product. This liability represents our estimate of future disability claim payments and expenses as well as estimates of claims that have been incurred, but have not yet been reported, as of the balance sheet date. The liability is determined as the present value of expected future claim payments and expenses. The primary assumptions used in determining expected future claim payments are claim termination factors, an assumed interest rate and expected Social Security offsets. The remaining reserves for future policy benefits for group life and disability benefits relate primarily to our group life business, and include reserves for waiver of premium, claims reported but not yet paid, and claims incurred but not yet reported. The waiver of premium reserve is calculated as the present value of future benefits and utilizes assumptions such as expected Table of Contents Retirement. The reserves for future policy benefits of our Retirement segment, which as of December 31, 2020, represented Individual Annuities. The reserves for future policy benefits of our Individual Annuities segment, which as of December 31, The reserves for certain optional living benefit features, including GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB are accounted for as Individual Life. The reserves for future policy benefits of our Individual Life segment, which as of December 31, 2020, Group Insurance. The reserves for future policy benefits of our Group Insurance segment, which as of December 31, 2020, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 91 425 mortality and recovery rates. The reserve for claims reported but not yet paid is based on the inventory of claims that have been reported but not yet paid. The reserve for claims incurred but not yet reported is estimated using expected patterns of claims reporting. 2020, represented 5% of our total future policy benefit reserves, primarily relate to our long-term care products and are generally calculated using the net premium valuation methodology, as described above. Due to the recognition of a premium deficiency in the first quarter of 2020 as a result of the decline in interest rates, most contracts are valued with the best estimate assumptions at that time. The primary assumptions used in establishing these reserves include interest rate, morbidity, mortality, lapse, premium rate increase and maintenance expense assumptions. In addition, certain less significant reserves for our long-term care products, such as our disabled life reserves, are established using current best estimate actuarial assumptions. Block division, which as of December 31, 2020, represented 15% of our total future policy benefit reserves are determined using the net premium valuation methodology, as described above. Under this method, the future policy benefit reserves are accrued as a level proportion of the premium paid by the policyholder. In applying this method, we use mortality assumptions to determine our expected future benefits and expected future premiums, and apply an interest rate to determine the present value of both of these amounts. The mortality assumptions are based on standard industry mortality tables that were used to determine the cash surrender value of the policies, and the interest rates used are the interest rates used to calculate the cash surrender value of the policies. Policyholders Account Balances the balance sheet date. This liability is primarily associated with the accumulated account deposits, plus interest credited, less policyholder withdrawals and other charges assessed against the account balance, as applicable. Our unearned revenue reserve also reported as a component of Policyholders account balances primarily relates to the variable and universal life products within our Individual Life and International Businesses segments and represents policy charges for services to be provided in future periods. The charges are deferred as unearned revenue and are generally amortized over the expected life of the contract in proportion to the product s estimated gross profits, similar to DAC and DSI as discussed above. Policyholders account balances also include amounts representing the fair value of embedded derivative instruments associated with the index-linked features of certain universal life and annuity products. For additional information regarding the valuation of these embedded derivatives, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Sensitivities for Insurance Assets and Liabilities changes in certain key assumptions. The figures below are presented in aggregate for the Company. The information below is for illustrative purposes and includes only the hypothetical direct impact on December 31, 2020 balances of changes in a single assumption and not changes in any combination of assumptions. Additionally, the illustration of the insurance assumption impacts below reflects a parallel shift in the insurance assumptions across the Company however, these may be non-parallel in practice and only applicable to specific businesses. Changes in current assumptions could result in impacts to financial statement balances that are in excess of the amounts illustrated. A description of the estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of each of these financial statement balances is provided above. For traditional long-duration and limited-payment contracts, U.S. GAAP requires the original assumptions used when the contracts are issued to be locked-in and that those assumptions be used in all future liability calculations as long as the resulting liabilities are adequate to provide for the future benefits and expenses (i.e., there is no premium deficiency). Therefore, these products are not reflected in the sensitivity table below unless the hypothetical change in assumption would result in an adverse impact that would cause a premium deficiency. Similarly, the impact of any favorable change in assumptions for traditional long-duration and limited-payment contracts is not reflected in the table below given that the current assumption is required to remain locked-in, and instead the positive impacts would be recognized into net income over the life of the policies in force. The impacts of our asset liability management strategy, which seeks to offset the changes in the balances presented within this table and is primarily composed of investments and derivatives. See further below for a discussion of the estimates and assumptions involved with the application of U.S. GAAP accounting policies for these instruments and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk for hypothetical impacts on related balances as a result of changes in certain significant assumptions. Table of Contents Corporate and Other. The reserves for future policy benefits of our Corporate & Other operations, which as of December 31, Closed Block Division. The future policy benefit reserves for the traditional participating life insurance products of the Closed Policyholders account balances liability represents the contract value that has accrued to the benefit of the policyholder as of The following table summarizes the aggregate impact that could result on each of the listed financial statement balances from The impacts presented within this table exclude the following: 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 92 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 93 425 the net impact that could result from changes in these assumptions should they occur. Under U.S. GAAP, reserves for long-term care products are primarily calculated using the locked-in assumptions concept described above. As such, the adverse hypothetical impacts illustrated in the table below are those that would increase our best estimate reserves and, when compared to our GAAP reserves, may cause a premium deficiency that would require us to unlock and update our assumptions and record a charge to net income. The favorable hypothetical impacts in the table below would decrease our best estimate reserves but they would not result in an immediate decrease to our GAAP reserves (given that we would be required to leave the current assumptions locked-in) rather, the positive impacts would be recognized into net income over the life of the policies in force. in any combination of assumptions. As a result of emerging experience, changes in current assumptions and the related impact that could result in the listed financial statement balances that are in excess of the amounts illustrated may occur in future periods. The impacts of our Long-Term Care business, a component of our Divested and Run-off Businesses within our Corporate and Other operations. Long-Term Care business sensitivities are presented separately from the immediately following table (see Sensitivities for the Long-Term Care business within our Corporate and Other operations ). While the accounting for long-term care products primarily follows the locked-in assumptions model described above, as a result of the decline in interest rates in the first quarter of 2020, this business recognized a premium deficiency and unlocked and updated the previously locked-in assumptions used in the valuation model. Sensitivities are presented separately in order to provide stand-alone and supplementary information. December 31, 2020 Hypothetical change in current assumptions: Long-term interest rate: Increase by 25 basis points 55 (60) 115 Decrease by 25 basis points (50) 45 (95) Long-term equity expected rate of return: Increase by 50 basis points 185 (140) 325 Decrease by 50 basis points (165) 145 (310) NPR credit spread: Increase by 50 basis points (485) (2,275) 1,790 Decrease by 50 basis points 545 2,535 (1,990) Mortality: Increase by 1% (45) (165) 120 Decrease by 1% 45 165 (120) Lapse: Increase by 10% (150) (980) 830 Decrease by 10% 160 1,010 (850) Table of Contents Sensitivities for the Long-Term Care Business within Corporate and Other The following table summarizes certain significant assumptions made in establishing reserves for long-term care products and The information below is for illustrative purposes and includes the impacts of changes in a single assumption and not changes Inducements and Value of Business Acquired Acquisition Costs, Deferred Policy Deferred Sales Increase (Decrease) in Future Policy Benefits and Policyholders Account Balances Net Impact (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 94 425 (1) Investment rate reflects the expected investment yield over the life of the block of business, and is derived from the portfolio yield, current reinvestment rates and our intermediate and long-term assumption for investment yields. million for Assurance IQ, 455 million for Retirement s Full Service business, 258 million for PGIM, and 136 million for Gibraltar Life and Other. circumstances indicate the potential for impairment is more likely than not. The goodwill impairment analysis is performed at the reporting unit level, which is the same as, or one level below, our operating segments. Although accounting guidance provides for an optional qualitative assessment for testing goodwill impairment, all of our reporting units elected to perform the quantitative test, which compares each reporting unit s fair value to its carrying value. The carrying value represents the capital that the business would require if operating as a standalone entity. For additional information on goodwill and our reporting segments, see Note 2 and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. the acquisition of the business in October 2019. A quantitative impairment assessment of the goodwill allocated to Assurance IQ was performed for the first time as of December 31, 2020. The assessment included both a discounted cash flow approach and a market approach based on sales, Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ( EBITDA ) and earnings multiples. The estimated fair value of Assurance IQ as of December 31, 2020 was based on weighting the results of each approach. asset pricing model and reflecting a market expected rate of return for the reporting unit, to its projected future cash flows. The projected future cash flows involved significant judgement and were based on our internal forecasts and a terminal value, which incorporates an expected long-term growth rate and market-based multiples. The internal forecasts were based on management s current outlook on the product mix and future performance of the business and incorporated expected industry and market conditions and trends. December 31, 2020 Mortality Improvement Based on G2 industry mortality improvement scale, grossed up to apply to only healthy lives Claim Incidence Based on Company and industry experience. No reflection of future claim management efficiencies Average Ultimate Lapse Rate Individual: 0.7% Investment Rate(1) Weighted average of 4.74% -25 basis points to 25 basis points 400 - (400) Expected Future Premium Rate Increase Approvals (2) Includes expected future premium rate increases and benefit reductions in lieu of rate increases, not yet approved. Table of Contents As of December 31, 2020, our goodwill balance of 3,035 million is primarily reflected in the following reporting units: 2,140 We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, as of December 31 of each year, or more frequently if events or As of December 31, 2019, the Company performed a qualitative goodwill impairment assessment for Assurance IQ, following The discounted cash flow approach calculated the value of Assurance IQ by applying a discount rate, derived from a capital Assumption Current Assumption Assumption Change Group: 0.7% Approximately 0.5 billion for the rate increase program(2) Remove all mortality improvement on healthy lives Increase decrease in expected incidence: 5% to -5% -10 basis points to 10 basis points 125 - (125) Decrease increase unapproved rate increases by: -10% to 10% Increase (Decrease) in Best Estimate 300 - (300) (in millions) 50 - (50) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 95 425 company was assigned a relative weight based on various factors, primarily focused on the comparability of lines of business and business mix, with additional considerations given to comparability of business lifecycle, growth and profitability. Market multiples were developed for the comparable companies using independent analysts consensus estimates for each company s forecasted sales, EBITDA and earnings. The market multiples were then applied to Assurance IQ s forecasted results, and a control premium, reflective of observable premiums paid for comparable change-in-control transactions, was added to determine a total estimated fair value for the reporting unit. The market multiples used to determine the fair value of Assurance IQ were higher as of December 31, 2020, when compared to the prior year. See Risk Factors Strategic Risk for additional information on risks that may impact the performance and fair value of Assurance IQ. the carrying value by 10%, as of December 31, 2020. Retirement s Full Service business used a discounted cash flow approach to estimate its fair value as of December 31, 2020. The significant inputs and considerations applied under each approach are similar to the ones applied by Assurance IQ. The fair value of the reporting units, excluding Assurance IQ, exceeded their carrying value by a weighted average of 229% as of December 31, 2020. For all reporting units tested, unanticipated changes in business performance or the regulatory environment, market declines or other events impacting the fair value of these businesses, including changes in market multiples, discount rates, interest rates and growth rate assumptions or increases in the level of equity required to support these businesses, could cause an impairment of goodwill, resulting in a charge to income. Valuation of Investments, Including Derivatives, Measurement of Allowance for Credit Losses, and the Recognition of Other- than-Temporary Impairments securities, other invested assets, and derivative financial instruments. Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices or the values of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments we generally use include swaps, futures, forwards and options and may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the- counter ( OTC ) market. We are also party to financial instruments that contain derivative instruments that are embedded in the financial instruments. Management believes the following accounting policies related to investments, including derivatives, are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. Each of these policies is discussed further within other relevant disclosures related to investments and derivatives, as referenced below: investments classified as trading such as our assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities and certain fixed maturities, equity securities, and certain investments within Other invested assets, such as derivatives. For additional information regarding the key estimates and assumptions surrounding the determination of fair value of fixed maturity and equity securities, as well as derivative instruments, embedded derivatives and other investments, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities. in AOCI, a separate component of equity. For our investments classified as trading and equity securities, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded within Other income (loss). Our investments classified as held-to-maturity are carried at the acquisition price, net of any unamortized premiums or discounts. Our commercial mortgage and other loans are carried primarily at unpaid principal balances, net of unamortized deferred loan origination fees and expenses and unamortized premiums or discounts and a valuation allowance for losses. maturity fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans. For additional information regarding our policies regarding the measurement of credit losses, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Table of Contents The market approach derived the value of Assurance IQ based on comparable publicly traded companies. Each comparable The estimated fair value of Assurance IQ, based on a weighted average of the valuation approaches described above, exceeded Gibraltar Life and Other and PGIM completed a quantitative impairment analysis using an earnings multiple approach, while Estimating the fair value of reporting units is a subjective process that involves the use of significant estimates by management. Our investment portfolio consists of public and private fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity Valuation of investments, including derivatives Measurement of the allowance for credit losses on fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-sale or held-to- maturity, commercial mortgage loans, and other loans and Recognition of other-than-temporary impairments ( OTTI ) for equity method investments. We present at fair value in the statements of financial position our debt security investments classified as available-for-sale, For our investments classified as available-for-sale, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded as an unrealized gain or loss In addition, an allowance for credit losses is measured each quarter for available-for-sale fixed maturity securities, held-to- 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 96 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 97 425 in value is considered to be other-than-temporary. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits net periodic costs for these plans consider an assumed discount (interest) rate, an expected rate of return on plan assets, expected increases in compensation levels, mortality and trends in health care costs. Of these assumptions, our expected rate of return assumptions and our discount rate assumptions have historically had the most significant effect on our net period costs associated with these plans. risk free rates, inflation, real return, term premium, credit spreads, equity risk premium and capital appreciation as well as expenses, the effect of active management and the effect of rebalancing for the equity, debt and real estate asset mix applied on a weighted average basis to our pension asset portfolio. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for our actual asset allocations by asset category and the asset allocation ranges prescribed by our investment policy guidelines for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Our assumed long-term rate of return for 2020 was 6.50% for our domestic pension plans and 7.00% for our other postretirement benefit plans. Given the amount of plan assets as of December 31, 2019, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed an expected rate of return for both our domestic pension and other domestic postretirement benefit plans that was 100 bps higher or 100 bps lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have been as shown in the table below. The information provided in the table below considers only changes in our assumed long-term rate of return given the level and mix of invested assets at the beginning of the measurement year, without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed long-term rate of return. would result in a decrease in net periodic pension costs of 6 million conversely, a decrease in expected rate of return by 100 bps would result in an increase in net periodic pension costs of 4 million. commensurate with current yields on high quality corporate bonds. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the December 31, 2019 methodology we employed to determine our discount rate for 2020. Our assumed discount rate for 2020 was 3.30% for our domestic pension plans and 3.25% for our other domestic postretirement benefit plans. Given the amount of pension and postretirement obligations as of December 31, 2019, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed a discount rate for both our domestic pension and other postretirement benefit plans that was 100 bps higher or 100 bps lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have been as shown in the table below. The information provided in the table below considers only changes in our assumed discount rate without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed discount rate. would result in a decrease in net periodic pension costs of 14 million conversely, a decrease in discount rate by 100 bps would result in an increase in net periodic pension costs of 9 million. For the year ended December 31, 2020 (in millions) Increase in expected rate of return by 100 bps (132) (15) Decrease in expected rate of return by 100 bps 132 15 For the year ended December 31, 2020 (in millions) Increase in discount rate by 100 bps (136) (7) Decrease in discount rate by 100 bps 159 4 Table of Contents For equity method investments, the carrying value of these investments is written down or impaired to fair value when a decline We sponsor pension and other postretirement benefit plans covering employees who meet specific eligibility requirements. Our We determine our expected rate of return on plan assets based upon a building block approach that considers plan asset mix, Foreign pension plans represent 5% of plan assets at the beginning of 2020. An increase in expected rate of return by 100 bps We determine our discount rate, used to value the pension and postretirement benefit obligations, based upon rates Foreign pension plans represent 14% of plan obligations at the beginning of 2020. An increase in discount rate by 100 bps Increase (Decrease) in Net Increase (Decrease) in Net Periodic Pension Cost Periodic Pension Cost Periodic Other Postretirement Cost Periodic Other Postretirement Cost Increase (Decrease) in Net Increase (Decrease) in Net 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 98 425 gains and losses arising from changes in our assumed discount rate, the change in net periodic pension cost arising from an increase in the assumed discount rate by 100 bps would not always be expected to equal the change in net periodic pension cost arising from a decrease in the assumed discount rate by 100 bps. Results of Operations by Segment Corporate and Other. decreased the discount rate to 2.55% from 3.30% in 2020. The expected rate of return on plan assets will decrease to 5.75% in 2021 from 6.00% in 2020, and the assumed rate of increase in compensation will remain unchanged at 4.5%. postretirement benefit plans may change due to factors such as actual experience being different from our assumptions, special benefits to terminated employees, or changes in benefits provided under the plans. change in discount rate was as follows. Taxes on Income opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Inherent in determining our annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. The Dividend Received Deduction ( DRD ) is a major reason for the difference between the Company s effective tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate. The DRD is an estimate that incorporates the prior and current year information, as well as the current year s equity market performance. Both the current estimate of the DRD and the DRD in future periods can vary based on factors such as, but not limited to, changes in the amount of dividends received that are eligible for the DRD, changes in the amount of distributions received from underlying fund investments, changes in the account balances of variable life and annuity contracts, and the Company s taxable income before the DRD. Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ( SAB 118 ), which allowed the registrants to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year. Under the relief provided by SAB 118, a company could recognize provisional amounts when it did not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete its accounting for the change in tax law. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of refinements to provisional amounts related to The United States Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 ( Tax Act of 2017 ) included in Total income tax expense (benefit) before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures in 2018. affiliates to be included in the Company s U.S. income tax base, with an election to pay the associated tax on an eight-year installment basis. Unremitted foreign earnings from certain operations in foreign jurisdictions that impose a withholding tax on dividends are considered to be permanently reinvested for purposes of determining the applicable withholding tax expense. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of unremitted earnings for which the Company provides U.S. income taxes. 2020 Total income tax expense (benefit) of 3 million. December 31, 2020 (in millions) Increase in discount rate by 100 bps (1,690) (190) Decrease in discount rate by 100 bps 2,056 228 Table of Contents Given the application of the authoritative guidance for accounting for pensions, and the deferral and amortization of actuarial For purposes of calculating pension income from our own qualified pension plan for the year ended December 31, 2021, we In addition to the effect of changes in our assumptions, the net periodic cost or benefit from our pension and other At December 31, 2020, the sensitivity of our domestic and foreign pension and postretirement obligations to a 100 basis point Our effective tax rate is based on income, non-taxable and non-deductible items, tax credits, statutory tax rates and tax planning In December 2017, Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, Income Tax The Tax Act of 2017 includes a provision causing post-1986 unremitted foreign earnings of at least 10% owned non-U.S. An increase or decrease in our effective tax rate by one percentage point would have resulted in a decrease or increase in our For a discussion of our expected rate of return on plan assets and discount rate for our qualified pension plan in 2020, see Increase (Decrease) in Benefits Obligation Accumulated Postretirement Increase (Decrease) in Benefits Obligation 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 99 425 into law. One provision of the CARES Act amends the Tax Act of 2017 and allows companies with net operating losses ( NOLs ) originating in 2018, 2019, or 2020 to carry back those losses up to five years. For 2020, the Company has recorded an income tax benefit of 51 million and 149 million from carrying the 2018 NOL and estimated 2020 NOL back to tax years that have a 35% tax rate. Contingencies of future events. Under U.S. GAAP, accruals for contingencies are required to be established when the future event is probable and its impact can be reasonably estimated, such as in connection with an unresolved legal matter. The initial reserve reflects management s best estimate of the probable cost of ultimate resolution of the matter and is revised accordingly as facts and circumstances change and, ultimately, when the matter is brought to closure. Other Accounting Policies for the placement of insurance policies with insurance carriers. At the effective date of the policy, the Company records within Other income the expected lifetime revenue for the initial and renewal commissions considering estimates of the timing of future policy cancellations. These estimates are reassessed each reporting period and any changes in estimates are reflected in the current period. Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements Contracts, was issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) on August 15, 2018 and is expected to have a significant impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In October 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-09, Financial Services - Insurance (Topic 944): Effective Date to affirm its decision to defer the effective date of ASU 2018-12 to January 1, 2022 (with early adoption permitted), representing a one year extension from the original effective date of January 1, 2021. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, in November 2020 the FASB issued ASU 2020-11, Financial Services Insurance (Topic 944): Effective Date and Early Application to defer for an additional one year the effective date of ASU 2018-12 from January 1, 2022 to January 1, 2023, and to provide transition relief to facilitate the early adoption of the ASU. The transition relief would allow large calendar-year public companies that early adopt ASU 2018-12 to apply the guidance either as of January 1, 2020 or January 1, 2021 (and record transition adjustments as of January 1, 2020 or January 1, 2021, respectively) in the 2022 financial statements. Companies that do not early adopt ASU 2018-12 would apply the guidance as of January 1, 2021 (and record transition adjustments as of January 1, 2021) in the 2023 financial statements. The Company currently intends to adopt ASU 2018-12 effective January 1, 2023. ASU 2018-12 will impact, at least to some extent, the accounting and disclosure requirements for all long-duration insurance and investment contracts issued by the Company. In addition to the impacts to the balance sheet upon adoption, the Company also expects an impact to how earnings emerge thereafter. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of ASU 2018-12, as well as other accounting pronouncements issued but not yet adopted and newly adopted accounting pronouncements. Table of Contents The CARES Act. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act ) was enacted A contingency is an existing condition that involves a degree of uncertainty that will ultimately be resolved upon the occurrence For digital insurance brokerage placement services, the Company earns both initial and renewal commissions as compensation ASU 2018-12, Financial Services Insurance (Topic 944): Targeted Improvements to the Accounting for Long-Duration Operating Results The following table sets forth PGIM s operating results for the periods indicated: Results of Operations by Segment 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 100 425 (1) Certain of PGIM s investment activities are based in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and are therefore subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. The financial results of PGIM include the impact of an intercompany arrangement with our Corporate and Other operations designed to mitigate the impact of exchange rate changes on PGIM s U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings. For more information related to this intercompany arrangement, see Results of Operations Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates, above. management fees, net of related expenses, due to higher average assets under management as a result of market appreciation, strong investment performance and public fixed income inflows. The increase also reflected an increase in other related revenues, net of related expenses, primarily due to higher commercial mortgage origination revenue driven by higher loan production and profitability, higher net performance-based incentive fees, and favorable co- and seed investment results driven by strong underlying investment performance. These increases were partially offset by higher expenses primarily reflecting higher compensation driven by business growth, as well as a decrease in service, distribution and other revenues primarily due to the absence of fees in the current year period related to the Wells Fargo agreement (see the Revenues by type table in Revenues and Expenses, below). Results, by type: (1) Consists of fees from: individual mutual funds and variable annuities and variable life insurance separate account assets funds invested in proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products and third-party sub-advisory relationships. Revenues from fixed annuities and the fixed-rate accounts of variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in the general account. Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Operating results(1): Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Revenues by type: (2) Includes mortgage origination revenues from our commercial mortgage origination and servicing business. Asset management fees by source: Other related revenues by source: Service, distribution and other revenues(3) 691 527 482 Revenues 4,153 3,589 3,294 Expenses 2,891 2,591 2,335 Adjusted operating income 1,262 998 959 Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures 1,421 1,005 928 Total asset management fees 2,910 2,682 2,542 Total other related revenues 552 380 270 Table of Contents Adjusted Operating Income 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased 264 million, primarily reflecting an increase in asset Revenues and Expenses The following table sets forth PGIM s revenues, presented on a basis consistent with the table above under Operating Institutional customers 1,350 1,283 1,204 Retail customers(1) 1,003 878 867 General account 557 521 471 Incentive fees 206 169 59 Transaction fees 26 22 33 Co- and seed investments 122 79 57 Commercial mortgage(2) 198 110 121 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments 0 (1) (10) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests 159 8 (21) Total revenues 4,153 3,589 3,294 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 101 425 higher average assets under management as a result of market appreciation, strong investment performance and public fixed income inflows. Other related revenues increased primarily reflecting higher commercial mortgage origination revenue driven by higher loan production and profitability, favorable co- and seed investment results driven by strong underlying investment performance, and higher performance-based incentive fees. Service, distribution and other revenues increased primarily reflecting higher revenues from certain consolidated funds (which were fully offset by higher expenses related to noncontrolling interests in these funds), partially offset by the absence of fees in the current year period related to the Wells Fargo agreement. largely driven by higher revenues associated with certain consolidated funds, as discussed above. The increase also includes higher variable expenses associated with an increase in overall segment earnings and higher performance-based incentive fee revenues, higher compensation expenses driven by business growth, and expenses related to the startup of a closed-end retail fund in the current year period. These increases were partially offset by lower expenses related to travel and entertainment resulting from COVID-19. (1) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. Public equity represents stock ownership interest in a corporation or partnership (excluding hedge funds) or real estate investment trust. Public fixed income represents debt instruments that pay interest and usually have a maturity (excluding mortgages). Real estate includes direct real estate equity and real estate mortgages. Private credit and other alternatives includes private credit, private equity, hedge funds and other alternative strategies. Multi-asset includes funds or products that invest in more than one asset class, balancing equity and fixed income funds and target date funds. market appreciation, strong investment performance and public fixed income inflows. December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in billions) Assets Under Management(1) (at fair value): (3) Includes payments from Wells Fargo under an agreement dated as of July 30, 2004, implementing arrangements with respect to money market mutual funds in connection with the combination of our retail securities brokerage and clearing operations with those of Wells Fargo. The agreement extended for ten years from the Wachovia Securities joint venture termination date of December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2019. The revenue from Wells Fargo under this agreement was 60 million and 70 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. (2) Effective first quarter of 2020, certain assets have been reclassified from the U.S. Individual Solutions division to PGIM. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. (3) Primarily includes certain assets related to annuity and variable life products in our U.S. Individual Solutions division, retirement and group life products in our U.S. Workplace Solutions division and certain general account assets of our International Businesses. These assets are not directly managed by PGIM, but rather are invested in non-proprietary funds or are managed by either the divisions themselves or by our Chief Investment Officer Organization. Public equity 202.4 165.7 147.0 Public fixed income 1,004.5 885.9 773.1 Real estate 121.5 117.1 110.3 Private credit and other alternatives 106.5 97.5 87.1 Multi-asset 63.7 64.8 64.0 Total PGIM assets under management(2) 1,498.6 1,331.0 1,181.5 Assets under management within other reporting segments(2)(3) 222.3 219.9 195.8 Total PFI assets under management 1,720.9 1,550.9 1,377.3 Table of Contents 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased 564 million. Asset management fees increased primarily reflecting Expenses increased 300 million. This increase primarily reflects higher expenses for service, distribution and other revenues Assets Under Management The following table sets forth assets under management by asset class as of the dates indicated. 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. PGIM s assets under management increased 168 billion in 2020, primarily reflecting The following table sets forth assets under management by source as of the dates indicated. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 102 425 (1) Represents assets that PGIM manages for the benefit of other reporting segments within the Company. Additions and withdrawals of these assets are attributable to third-party product inflows and outflows in other reporting segments. that may include management fees, transaction fees, incentive fees and servicing revenues, as well as future costs to manage these assets. and equity asset classes. Assets under management resulting from private capital deployment are included in Real estate and Private credit and other alternatives in the Assets Under Management by asset class table above, and these accounted for a net increase of approximately 12 billion of assets under management in 2020. The increase was primarily driven by private debt originations and real estate equity acquisitions, partially offset by maturities and capital returned to investors. are originated and sold to third party investors. PGIM continues to service these commercial loans however, they are not included in assets under management. December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in billions) Assets Under Management(1) (at fair value): December 31, (in billions) Ending assets under management(3) 1,498.6 1,331.0 1,181.5 Beginning assets under management 1,331.0 1,181.5 1,180.0 (1) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. Institutional customers consist of third-party institutional assets and group insurance contracts. Retail customers consist of individual mutual funds and variable annuities and variable life insurance separate account assets, funds invested in proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products, and third-party sub- advisory relationships. General account also includes fixed annuities and the fixed-rate accounts of variable annuities and variable life insurance. (2) Effective first quarter of 2020, certain assets have been reclassified from the U.S. Individual Solutions division to PGIM. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. (3) Primarily includes certain assets related to annuity and variable life products in our U.S. Individual Solutions division, retirement and group life products in our U.S. Workplace Solutions division and certain general account assets of our International Businesses. These assets are not directly managed by PGIM, but rather are invested in non-proprietary funds or are managed by either the divisions themselves or by our Chief Investment Officer Organization. (2) Includes income reinvestment, where applicable. (3) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. Total third-party flows 20.2 (0.8) 13.7 Affiliated flows(1) (8.5) (3.9) 7.9 Market appreciation (depreciation)(2) 146.7 148.6 (23.0) Foreign exchange rate impact 6.8 0.5 1.2 Net money market activity and other increases (decreases) 2.4 5.1 1.7 Institutional customers 614.9 552.8 493.5 Retail customers 372.0 305.6 260.2 General account 511.7 472.6 427.8 Total PGIM assets under management(2) 1,498.6 1,331.0 1,181.5 Assets under management within other reporting segments(2)(3) 222.3 219.9 195.8 Total PFI assets under management 1,720.9 1,550.9 1,377.3 Table of Contents  The following table sets forth the component changes in PGIM s assets under management for the periods indicated. Private Capital Deployment Private capital deployment is indicative of the pace and magnitude of capital that is invested and will result in future revenues Private capital deployment represents the gross value of private capital invested in real estate debt and equity, and private credit Private capital deployment includes PGIM s real estate agency debt business, which consists of agency commercial loans that The following table sets forth PGIM s private capital deployed by asset class for the periods indicated. Institutional third-party flows 3.0 (6.5) 14.1 Retail third-party flows 17.2 5.7 (0.4) 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 103 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 104 425 Co- and Seed Investments used to mitigate equity market and currency risk) by asset class and source as of the dates indicated. (1) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. and other alternatives investment performance, partially offset by a liquidation of a significant real estate co-investment. U.S. Businesses December 31, (in billions) December 31, 2020 2019(1) (in millions) Co-Investments: Seed Investments: Private capital deployed: Real estate debt and equity 24.4 26.1 25.6 Private credit and equity 12.6 13.2 12.5 Public fixed income 489 462 Real estate 170 228 Private credit and other alternatives 26 19 Public equity 675 671 Public fixed income 356 325 Real estate 33 34 Private credit and other alternatives 79 59 Multi-asset 62 74 Table of Contents The following table sets forth PGIM s co- and seed investments at carrying value (including the value of derivative instruments The increase of 18 million in co- and seed investments was primarily driven by strong public fixed income and private credit Operating Results The following table sets forth the operating results for our U.S. Businesses for the periods indicated: Total private capital deployed 37.0 39.3 38.1 Total 1,890 1,872 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 105 425 (1) Assurance IQ was acquired by the Company in October 2019. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. U.S. Businesses U.S. Workplace Solutions Division Retirement (2) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. (3) Represents the immediate impacts in current period results from changes in current market conditions on estimates of profitability, which are excluded from adjusted operating income beginning with the second quarter of 2019. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (4) Represents certain components of the consideration for the Assurance IQ acquisition, which are recognized as compensation expense over the requisite service periods, as well as changes in the fair value of contingent consideration. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2020 2019 2018 Adjusted operating income before income taxes: Reconciling Items: Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures (428) 1,115 3,180 U.S. Businesses: Year ended December 31, Lower fee income, net of distribution expenses and other associated costs, in our Individual Annuities business Lower underwriting results primarily driven by COVID-19 related net mortality experience and An unfavorable comparative net impact from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Partially offsetting these decreases were lower expenses, including those associated with cost savings initiatives. U.S. Workplace Solutions division: U.S. Individual Solutions division: Assurance IQ division(1): Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(2) (2,526) (1,881) 88 Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net (120) (58) (333) Market experience updates(3) (591) (408) 0 Other adjustments(4) 51 (47) 0 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests 4 2 (1) Table of Contents 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income for our U.S. Businesses decreased by 753 million primarily due Operating Results The following table sets forth Retirement s operating results for the periods indicated: Retirement 1,436 1,301 1,049 Group Insurance (16) 285 229 Individual Annuities 1,470 1,843 1,925 Individual Life (48) 87 223 Assurance IQ (88) (9) 0 Total U.S. Workplace Solutions division 1,420 1,586 1,278 Total U.S. Individual Solutions division 1,422 1,930 2,148 Total Assurance IQ division (88) (9) 0 Total U.S. Businesses 2,754 3,507 3,426 (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 106 425 net impact from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Results for 2020 included a net charge of 22 million from these updates primarily driven by an increase in expected benefit payments, while results for 2019 included a net benefit of 154 million from these updates, primarily driven by a reduction in expected benefit payments. Excluding this item, adjusted operating income increased 311 million, primarily driven by higher reserve gains due to COVID-19 related mortality gains, and lower expenses primarily due to lower costs resulting from expense savings initiatives. Net investment spread results remained relatively flat as lower reinvestment yields were largely offset by higher income on non-coupon investments and the impact of lower crediting rates. of assumptions and other refinements, as discussed above, revenues decreased 3,037 million. This decrease primarily reflected lower pension risk transfer premiums with corresponding offsets in policyholders benefits, as discussed below. other refinements, as discussed above, benefits and expenses decreased 3,348 million. Policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, decreased primarily related to the decrease in pension risk transfer premiums discussed above, as well as more favorable reserve experience primarily driven by COVID-19 related mortality gains. impact of market changes. The income we earn on most of our fee-based products varies with the level of fee-based account values, since many policy fees are determined by these values. The investment income and interest we credit to policyholders on our spread- based products varies with the level of general account values. To a lesser extent, changes in account values impact our pattern of amortization of DAC and VOBA and general and administrative expenses. periods indicated. Net additions (withdrawals) are plan sales and participant deposits or additions, as applicable, minus plan Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues 12,034 15,064 16,825 Benefits and expenses 10,598 13,763 15,776 Adjusted operating income 1,436 1,301 1,049 Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures 1,416 1,639 641 Table of Contents Adjusted Operating Income 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased 135 million, including an unfavorable comparative Revenues, Benefits and Expenses 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased 3,030 million. Excluding the impact of our annual reviews and update Benefits and expenses decreased 3,165 million. Excluding the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and Account Values Account values are a significant driver of our operating results, and are primarily driven by net additions (withdrawals) and the The following table shows the changes in the account values and net additions (withdrawals) of Retirement s products for the Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments (23) 332 (402) Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net 0 4 (5) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests 3 2 (1) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 107 425 and participant withdrawals and benefits. Account values include both internally- and externally-managed client balances as the total balances drive revenue for the Retirement business. For more information on internally-managed balances, see PGIM. (1) Additions primarily include: group annuities and funded pension reinsurance calculated based on premiums received funding agreements issued unfunded longevity reinsurance contracts calculated as the present value of future projected benefits and investment-only stable value contracts calculated as the fair value of customers funds held in a client-owned trust. market value of customer funds and net deposits and sales. account values, net additions driven by investment-only stable value accounts and collateralized funding agreements. Group Insurance the periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Full Service: Institutional Investment Products: (2) Other activity includes the effect of foreign exchange rate changes associated with our British pounds sterling denominated longevity reinsurance business and changes in asset balances for externally-managed accounts. For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, Other activity also includes 6,989 million in receipts offset by 6,695 million in payments and 3,804 million in receipts offset by 3,104 million in payments, respectively, related to funding agreements backed by commercial paper which typically have maturities of less than 90 days. Beginning total account value 272,448 231,669 234,616 Deposits and sales 40,914 36,394 33,116 Withdrawals and benefits (34,652) (35,706) (26,429) Change in market value, interest credited and interest income and other activity 36,517 40,091 (9,634) Beginning total account value 227,596 200,759 194,492 Additions(1) 22,469 31,101 21,310 Withdrawals and benefits (18,288) (16,743) (15,409) Change in market value, interest credited and interest income 8,854 9,089 3,303 Other(2) 2,756 3,390 (2,937) Table of Contents 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. The increase in Full Service account values primarily reflected favorable changes in the The increase in Institutional Investment Products account values primarily reflected a favorable change in the market value of Operating Results The following table sets forth Group Insurance s operating results and benefits and administrative operating expense ratios for Ending total account value 315,227 272,448 231,669 Ending total account value 243,387 227,596 200,759 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 108 425 (1) Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums plus policy charges and fee income. impact from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Results for 2020 and 2019 included a net benefit from this update of 11 million and 9 million, respectively. Excluding this item, adjusted operating income decreased 303 million, primarily reflecting lower underwriting results in our group life business driven by unfavorable claim experience primarily due to COVID-19 impacts on non-experience-rated contracts. The decrease also reflected lower underwriting results in our group disability business driven by the impact to reserves from lower interest rates, and lower net investment spread results driven by lower reinvestment yields and lower prepayment fee income. of assumptions and other refinements, as discussed above, revenues increased 5 million. The increase primarily reflected higher premiums and policy charges and fee income driven by growth in our group life business, mostly offset by lower net investment income driven by lower reinvestment yields and lower prepayment fee income, with partial offsets in interest credited to policyholder account balances, as discussed below. other refinements, as discussed above, benefits and expenses increased 308 million. The increase primarily reflected higher policyholders benefits and changes in reserves, including increases in our group life business mostly due to COVID-19 impacts. The increase was partially offset by lower interest credited to policyholder account balances, offset in net investment income, as discussed above. above, for the periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Operating results: Benefits ratio(1)(4): Administrative operating expense ratio(3)(4): (2) Benefits ratios reflect the impacts of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding these impacts, the group life, group disability and total Group Insurance benefits ratios were 93.6%, 78.8% and 90.4% for 2020, respectively, 87.0%, 77.7% and 84.9% for 2019, respectively, and 87.4%, 77.8% and 85.5% for 2018, respectively. (3) Ratio of general and administrative expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums plus policy charges and fee income. (4) The benefit and administrative ratios are measures used to evaluate profitability and efficiency. Revenues 5,786 5,750 5,685 Benefits and expenses 5,802 5,465 5,456 Adjusted operating income (16) 285 229 Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures 32 265 191 Group life(2) 93.4 % 87.4 % 87.2 % Group disability(2) 78.4 % 75.4 % 75.8 % Total Group Insurance(2) 90.2 % 84.7 % 84.9 % Group life 12.4 % 12.7 % 12.2 % Group disability 26.1 % 24.1 % 27.1 % Total Group Insurance 15.4 % 15.2 % 15.1 % Table of Contents Adjusted Operating Income 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased 301 million, including a favorable comparative net Revenues, Benefits and Expenses 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased 36 million. Excluding the impact from our annual reviews and update Benefits and expenses increased 337 million. Excluding the impact from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and Sales Results The following table sets forth Group Insurance s annualized new business premiums, as defined under Segment Measures Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments 48 (20) (38) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 109 425 (1) Amounts exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage under our Servicemembers Group Life Insurance contract and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts. driven by lower sales in our group life business, partially offset by higher sales in our group disability business. Sales levels reflect pricing competitiveness and reduced levels of client case movement within the National segment. U.S. Businesses U.S. Individual Solutions Division Individual Annuities benefit riders (e.g., GMIB, GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB), and or optional death benefit riders (e.g., GMDB). We also offer fixed annuities that provide a guarantee of principal and interest credited at rates we determine (subject to certain contractual minimums) or at rates based upon the performance of an index (subject to caps or participation rates), as well as indexed variable annuities that provide several index crediting strategies and varying levels of downside protection at predetermined levels and durations. The drivers of our business results are generally included in adjusted operating income, with exceptions related to certain guarantees, as discussed below. contractual features. Under U.S. GAAP, the reserves for GMIB and GMDB are accounted for in accordance with an insurance fulfillment accounting framework and the results are included in adjusted operating income in a manner generally consistent with U.S. GAAP. GAAP as embedded derivatives and reported using a fair value accounting framework. For purposes of measuring segment performance, adjusted operating income excludes the changes in fair value and instead reflects the performance of these riders using an insurance fulfillment accounting framework. Under this framework, adjusted operating income recognized each period reflects the rider fees earned during the period, less the portion of such fees estimated to be required to cover future benefit payments and hedging costs. Sales of traditional variable annuities with guaranteed living benefit riders have been discontinued as of December 31, 2020. See Business Individual Annuities for more information about these products. (1) Represents the immediate impacts in current period results from changes in current market conditions on estimates of profitability, which are excluded from adjusted operating income beginning with the second quarter of 2019. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Annualized new business premiums(1): Year ended December 31, (in millions) Operating results: Group life 243 254 376 Group disability 163 159 183 Revenues 4,440 4,995 4,966 Benefits and expenses 2,970 3,152 3,041 Adjusted operating income 1,470 1,843 1,925 Market experience updates(1) (324) (100) 0 Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures (1,761) (749) 2,364 Table of Contents 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Total annualized new business premiums decreased 7 million compared to 2019, primarily Our Individual Annuities business includes both fixed and variable annuities which may include optional guaranteed living The U.S. GAAP accounting and our adjusted operating income treatment for our guarantees differ depending upon the specific In contrast, certain of our guaranteed living benefit riders (e.g., GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB) are accounted for under U.S. Operating Results The following table sets forth Individual Annuities operating results for the periods indicated: Total 406 413 559 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments (2,911) (2,551) 846 Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net 4 59 (407) 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 110 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 111 425 net impact from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Results for 2020 included a 136 million net charge from these updates primarily driven by unfavorable impacts related to a decrease in long-term interest rate assumptions. Results for 2019 included a 12 million net charge from these updates. Excluding this item, adjusted operating income decreased 249 million primarily driven by lower fee income, net of distribution expenses and other associated costs, due to unfavorable impacts from our traditional living benefit guarantees resulting from declining interest rates, as well as certain products reaching contractual milestones for fee tier reduction. assumptions and other refinements, as discussed above, revenues decreased 423 million. The decrease was primarily driven by lower policy charges and fee income reflecting unfavorable impacts from our traditional living benefit guarantees resulting from declining interest rates, as well as certain products reaching contractual milestones for fee tier reductions. Also contributing to the decrease were lower premiums resulting from lower single premium immediate annuity sales, with offsets in policyholders benefits as discussed below. refinements, as discussed above, benefits and expenses decreased 174 million primarily driven by lower policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, due to lower reserve provisions resulting from a decrease in single premium immediate annuity sales, with offsets in premiums, as discussed above. assets, fee income varies primarily based on the level of account values. Additionally, our fee income generally drives other items such as the pattern of amortization of DAC and other costs. Account values are driven by net flows from new business sales, surrenders, withdrawals and benefit payments, policy charges and the impact of positive or negative market value changes. The annuity industry s competitive and regulatory landscapes, which have been dynamic over the last few years, may impact our net flows, including new business sales. The following table sets forth account value information for the periods indicated: (1) Includes gross variable and fixed annuities sold as retail investment products. Investments sold through defined contribution plan products are included with such products within our Retirement business. Variable annuity account values were 170.5 billion, 164.9 billion and 147.3 billion as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Fixed annuity account values were 5.7 billion, 4.8 billion and 3.7 billion as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. market value of contractholder funds, partially offset by net outflows and policy charges. pricing actions in response to capital market conditions, and lower full surrenders driven by general uncertainty around COVID-19 as well as recent market volatility. Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Total Individual Annuities(1): Beginning total account value 169,681 151,080 168,626 Sales 6,815 9,720 8,270 Full surrenders and death benefits (7,845) (9,374) (8,958) Partial withdrawals and other benefit payments (5,191) (5,163) (4,814) Change in market value, interest credited and other activity 16,360 27,072 (8,341) Policy charges (3,540) (3,654) (3,703) Table of Contents Adjusted Operating Income 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased 373 million, including an unfavorable comparative Revenues, Benefits and Expenses 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased 555 million. Excluding the impact of our annual reviews and update of Benefits and expenses decreased 182 million. Excluding the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other Account Values Account values are a significant driver of our operating results. Since most fees are determined by the level of separate account 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. The increase in account values during 2020 was primarily driven by favorable changes in the The decrease in sales, net of full surrenders and death benefits, reflects lower gross sales driven by benefit rate reductions and Sales, net of full surrenders and death benefits (1,030) 346 (688) Net flows (6,221) (4,817) (5,502) Ending total account value 176,280 169,681 151,080 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 112 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 113 425 bear for providing customers a minimum guaranteed interest rate or an index-linked interest rate required to be credited to the customer s account value, which include interest rate fluctuations and or sustained periods of low interest rates, and credit risk related to the underlying investments. We manage these risk exposures primarily through our investment strategies and product design features, which include credit rate resetting subject to the minimum guaranteed interest rate as well as surrender charges applied during the early years of the contract that help to provide protection for premature withdrawals. In addition, a portion of our fixed products has a market value adjustment provision that affords protection of lapse in the case of rising interest rates. We also manage these risk exposures through external reinsurance for certain of our fixed annuity products. For information on our external reinsurance agreements, see Business Individual Annuities and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. to the investment risks we bear in order to credit to the customer s account balance the required crediting rate based on the performance of the elected indices at the end of each term. We manage this risk primarily through our investment strategies including derivatives and product design features, which include credit rate resetting subject to contractual minimums as well as surrender charges applied during the early years of the contract that help to provide protection for premature withdrawals. In addition, our indexed variable annuity strategies have an interim value provision that provides protection from lapse in the case of rising interest rates. deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including capital markets assumptions such as equity market returns, interest rates and market volatility, along with actuarial assumptions such as contractholder mortality, the timing and amount of annuitization and withdrawals, and contract lapses. For these risk exposures, achievement of our expected returns is subject to the risk that actual experience will differ from the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products. We manage our exposure to certain risks driven by fluctuations in capital markets primarily through a combination of i) Product Design Features, ii) our Asset Liability Management Strategy, and iii) our Capital Hedge Program, as discussed below. We also manage these risk exposures through external reinsurance for certain of our variable annuity products. For information on our external reinsurance agreements, see Business Individual Annuities and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Sales of traditional variable annuities with guaranteed living benefit riders have been discontinued as of December 31, 2020. See Business Individual Annuities for more information about these products. transfer feature. This feature is implemented at the contract level, and transfers assets between certain variable investment sub- accounts selected by the annuity contractholder and, depending on the benefit feature, a fixed-rate account in the general account or a bond fund sub-account within the separate accounts. The objective of the automatic rebalancing feature is to reduce our exposure to equity market risk and market volatility. Other product design features we utilize include, among others, asset allocation restrictions, minimum issuance age requirements and certain limitations on the amount of purchase payments, as well as a required minimum allocation to our general account for certain of our products. We continue to introduce products that diversify our risk profile and have incorporated provisions in product design allowing frequent revisions of key pricing elements for certain of our products. In addition, there is diversity in our fee arrangements as certain fees are primarily based on the benefit guarantee amount, the contractholder account value and or premiums, which helps preserve certain revenue streams when market fluctuations cause account values to decline. defray potential claims associated with our variable annuity living benefit guarantees. The economic liability we manage with this ALM strategy consists of expected living benefit claims under less severe market conditions, which are managed using fixed income and derivative instruments, and potential living benefit claims resulting from more severe market conditions, which are hedged using derivative instruments. For our Prudential Defined Income ( PDI ) variable annuity, we utilize fixed income instruments to help defray potential claims. For the portion of our ALM strategy executed with derivatives, we enter into a range of exchange-traded and OTC equity, interest rate and credit derivatives, including, but not limited to: equity and treasury futures total return, credit default and interest rate swaps and options, including equity options, swaptions, and floors and caps. The intent of this strategy is to more efficiently manage the capital and liquidity associated with these products while continuing to mitigate fluctuations in net income due to movements in capital markets. Table of Contents Risks and Risk Mitigants Fixed Annuity Risks and Risk Mitigants. The primary risk exposure of our fixed annuity products relates to investment risks we Indexed Variable Annuity Risks and Risk Mitigants. The primary risk exposure of our indexed variable annuity products relates Variable Annuity Risks and Risk Mitigants. The primary risk exposures of our variable annuity contracts relate to actual i. Product Design Features: A portion of the variable annuity contracts that we offer include an automatic rebalancing feature, also referred to as an asset ii. Asset Liability Management ( ALM ) Strategy (including fixed income instruments and derivatives): We employ an ALM strategy that utilizes a combination of both traditional fixed income instruments and derivatives to help 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 114 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 115 425 portion of the economic liability that is being hedged, has historically been reflected in adjusted operating income over time. Beginning with the second quarter of 2020, this impact is excluded from adjusted operating income, which the Company believes enhances the understanding of underlying performance trends. liability, such as NPR in order to maximize protection irrespective of the possibility of our own default, as well as risk margins (required by U.S. GAAP but different from our best estimate) and valuation methodology differences. The following table provides a reconciliation between the liability reported under U.S. GAAP and the economic liability we manage through our ALM strategy as of the periods indicated. (1) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. within the entities in which the risks reside. income instruments and derivatives as compared to the changes in the embedded derivative liability these assets support. These differences can be primarily attributed to three distinct areas: its exposure to the equity markets. The capital hedge program is conducted using equity derivatives which include equity call and put options, total return swaps and futures contracts. The changes in value of these derivatives have historically been recognized in adjusted operating income over the expected duration of the capital hedge program. Beginning with the second quarter of 2020, changes in value of these derivatives are excluded from adjusted operating income which the Company believes enhances the understanding of underlying performance trends. December 31, (in millions) U.S. GAAP liability, including NPR, net of reinsurance recoverables(1) 18,537 12,612 NPR adjustment, net of reinsurance recoverables(1) 4,103 3,522 Adjustments including risk margins and valuation methodology differences (5,080) (4,385) Different valuation methodologies in measuring the liability we intend to cover with fixed income instruments and derivatives versus the liability reported under U.S. GAAP. The valuation methodology utilized in estimating the economic liability we intend to defray with fixed income instruments and derivatives is different from that required to be utilized to measure the liability under U.S. GAAP. Additionally, the valuation of the economic liability excludes certain items that are included within the U.S. GAAP liability, such as NPR in order to maximize protection irrespective of the possibility of our own default and risk margins (required by U.S. GAAP but different from our best estimate). Different accounting treatment between liabilities and assets supporting those liabilities. Under U.S. GAAP, changes in value of the embedded derivative liability and derivative instruments used to hedge a portion of the economic liability are immediately reflected in net income. In contrast, changes in fair value of fixed income instruments that support a portion of the economic liability are designated as available-for-sale and are recorded as unrealized gains (losses) in other comprehensive income versus net income. General hedge results. For the derivative portion of the ALM strategy, the net hedging impact (the extent to which the changes in value of the hedging instruments offset the change in value of the portion of the economic liability we are hedging) may be impacted by a number of factors, including: cash flow timing differences between our hedging instruments and the corresponding portion of the economic liability we are hedging, basis differences attributable to actual underlying contractholder funds to be hedged versus hedgeable indices, rebalancing costs related to dynamic rebalancing of hedging instruments as markets move, certain elements of the economic liability that may not be hedged (including certain actuarial assumptions), and implied and realized market volatility on the hedge positions relative to the portion of the economic liability we seek to hedge. iii. Capital Hedge Program: Subtotal 22,640 16,134 Economic liability managed through the ALM strategy 17,560 11,749 Table of Contents Under our ALM strategy, the difference between the change in value of our hedging instruments and the change in value of the The valuation of the economic liability we seek to defray excludes certain items that are included within the U.S. GAAP As of December 31, 2020, the fair value of our fixed income instruments and derivative assets exceed the economic liability Under our ALM strategy, we expect differences in the U.S. GAAP net income impact between the changes in value of the fixed We employ a capital hedge program to protect a portion of the overall capital position of the variable annuities business against 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 116 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 117 425 adjusted operating income, which is primarily driven by the changes in the U.S. GAAP embedded derivative liability and hedge positions under the ALM strategy as described above, and the related amortization of DAC and other costs. (1) Positive amounts represent income negative amounts represent a loss. (2) Includes the impact of annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. (3) Represents the change in the liability (excluding NPR) for our variable annuities living benefit guarantees, which is measured utilizing a valuation methodology that is required under U.S. GAAP. This liability includes such items as risk margins which are required by U.S. GAAP but not included in our best estimate of the liability. (4) Represents the change in fair value of the derivatives utilized to hedge potential claims associated with our variable annuity living benefit guarantees. (5) Represents the changes in fair value of equity derivatives of the capital hedge program intended to protect a portion of the overall capital position of the variable annuities business against its exposure to the equity markets. (6) Represents the immediate impacts in current period results from changes in current market conditions on estimates of profitability, which are excluded from adjusted operating income beginning with the second quarter of 2019. (7) Excludes amounts from the changes in fair value of fixed income instruments recorded in OCI (versus net income): a gain of 1,384 million, a gain of 845 million and a loss of 14 million as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. before NPR, net of the change in fair value of hedge assets (excluding the change in fair value of capital hedges) largely due to unfavorable hedge breakage resulting from equity market volatility, as well as the unfavorable impact on the unhedged portion of the economic liability as a result of declining interest rates, partially offset by favorable equity market performance. Contributing to the overall loss were losses associated with our capital hedge program. Partially offsetting these items was a favorable NPR adjustment. program, and an unfavorable impact related to the portions of the U.S. GAAP liability before NPR, net of the change in fair value of hedge assets (excluding the change in fair value of capital hedges) largely due to declining interest rates, partially offset by favorable equity market performance. cumulative withdrawals have first exhausted the contractholder account value. Due to the age of the in-force block, limited claim payments have occurred to date, and they are not expected to increase significantly within the next five years, based upon current assumptions. The timing and amount of future claims will depend on actual returns on contractholder account value and actual contractholder behavior relative to our assumptions. The majority of our current living benefit guarantees provide for guaranteed lifetime contractholder withdrawal payments inclusive of a highest daily contract value guarantee. Our Prudential Defined Income variable annuity complements our variable annuity products with the highest daily benefit and provides for guaranteed lifetime contractholder withdrawal payments, but restricts contractholder asset allocation to a single bond fund sub-account within the separate accounts. Results excluded from adjusted operating income(2) (in millions)(1) Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net 4 59 (407) Total results excluded from adjusted operating income(7) (3,231) (2,592) 439 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments (2,911) (2,551) 846 Market experience updates(6) (324) (100) 0 Change in value of U.S. GAAP liability, pre-NPR(3) (4,979) (1,510) (681) Change in the NPR adjustment 581 (1,103) 1,394 Change in fair value of hedge assets, excluding capital hedges(4) 2,251 695 (427) Change in fair value of capital hedges(5) (900) (1,024) 404 Other 136 391 156 Table of Contents Results excluded from adjusted operating income The following table provides the net impact to the Consolidated Statements of Operations from the results excluded from For 2020, the loss of 3,231 million was driven by an unfavorable impact related to the portions of the U.S. GAAP liability For 2019, the loss of 2,592 million was driven by an unfavorable NPR adjustment, losses associated with our capital hedge Product Specific Risks and Risk Mitigants For certain living benefit guarantees, claims will primarily represent the funding of contractholder lifetime withdrawals after the 2020 2019 2018 Year ended December 31, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 118 425 daily living benefit features, include risk mitigants in the form of an automatic rebalancing feature and or inclusion in our ALM strategy. We may also utilize external reinsurance as a form of additional risk mitigation. The risks associated with the guaranteed benefits of certain legacy products that were sold prior to our development of the automatic rebalancing feature are also managed through our ALM strategy. Certain legacy products with GMAB rider options include the automatic rebalancing feature but are not included in the ALM strategy. As discussed above, sales of traditional variable annuities with living benefit guarantees and automatic rebalancing features have been discontinued as of December 31, 2020. See Business Individual Annuities for more information about these products. cumulative deposits adjusted for any partial withdrawals. Certain products include an optional enhanced GMDB based on the greater of a minimum return on the contract value or an enhanced value. We have retained the risk that the total amount of death benefit payable may be greater than the contractholder account value however, a substantial portion of the account values associated with GMDBs are subject to an automatic rebalancing feature because the contractholder also selected a living benefit guarantee which includes an automatic rebalancing feature. All of the variable annuity account values with living benefit guarantees also contain GMDBs. The living and death benefit features for these contracts cover the same insured life and, consequently, we have insured both the longevity and mortality risk on these contracts. benefit ( GMDB ) features as of the periods indicated: (1) All contracts with living benefit guarantees also contain GMDB features, which cover the same insured contract. (2) Contracts with living benefits that are included in our ALM strategy and that have an automatic rebalancing feature. (3) Excludes PDI which is presented separately within this table. (4) Represents contracts subject to a reinsurance transaction with an external counterparty covering certain Highest Daily Lifetime Income ( HDI ) v.3.0 business for the period April 1, 2015 through December 31, 2016. These contracts with living benefits also have an automatic rebalancing feature. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (5) Includes contracts that have a GMDB feature and do not have an automatic rebalancing feature. Individual Life December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Living benefit GMDB features(1): GMDB features and other(5) 26,120 15 % 23,055 14 % 21,103 14 % Both ALM strategy and automatic rebalancing(2) (3) 112,177 66 % 111,535 68 % 101,496 69 % ALM strategy only(3) 7,410 4 % 7,703 5 % 7,520 5 % Automatic rebalancing only 634 1 % 732 1 % 804 1 % External reinsurance(4) 3,173 2 % 3,150 2 % 2,873 2 % PDI 18,540 11 % 16,296 9 % 11,237 7 % Other products 2,492 1 % 2,457 1 % 2,306 2 % Total variable annuity account value 170,546 164,928 147,339 Table of Contents The majority of our traditional variable annuity contracts with living benefit guarantees, and contracts sold with our highest For our GMDBs, we provide a benefit payable in the event of death. Our base GMDB is generally equal to a return of The following table sets forth the risk management profile of our living benefit guarantees and guaranteed minimum death Operating Results The following table sets forth Individual Life s operating results for the periods indicated: Total living benefit GMDB features 144,426 141,873 126,236 Value % of Total Value % of Total Value % of Total 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 119 425 (1) Represents the immediate impacts in current period results from changes in current market conditions on estimates of profitability, which are excluded from adjusted operating income beginning with the second quarter of 2019. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Adjusted Operating Income impact from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Results for 2020 included a 92 million net charge from these updates, mainly driven by unfavorable impacts related to a decrease in long-term interest rate assumptions. Results for 2019 included a 208 million net charge from these updates, mainly driven by unfavorable impacts related to mortality assumptions. Excluding this item, adjusted operating income decreased 251 million, primarily reflecting lower underwriting results, driven by an unfavorable impact from mortality experience, net of reinsurance, primarily attributable to COVID-19 related claims, a change in business practice related to the level of premiums collected on certain policies that resulted in reserve refinements, and the absence of a favorable impact from changes in market conditions on estimates of profitability in the prior year period. These decreases were partially offset by lower expenses from cost savings initiatives. assumptions and other refinements, as discussed above, revenues increased 212 million. This increase was primarily driven by higher policy charges and fee income driven by business growth, and higher net investment income due to higher average invested assets resulting from business growth, partially offset by lower investment yields. refinements, as discussed above, benefits and expenses increased 463 million. This increase reflected higher policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, driven by an unfavorable impact from mortality experience, net of reinsurance, primarily attributable to COVID-19 related claims as well as a change in business practice related to the level of premiums collected on certain policies that resulted in reserve refinements and the absence of a favorable impact from changes in market conditions on estimates of profitability in the prior year period, as discussed above. The increase also reflected higher general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, due to an increase in VOBA amortization, partially offset by lower expenses from cost savings initiatives. Segment Measures above, by distribution channel and product, for the periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues 6,398 6,115 5,831 Benefits and expenses 6,446 6,028 5,608 Adjusted operating income (48) 87 223 Market experience updates(1) (267) (308) 0 Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures (79) 16 (16) Table of Contents 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased 135 million, including a favorable comparative net Revenues, Benefits and Expenses 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased 283 million. Excluding the impact of our annual reviews and update of Benefits and expenses increased 418 million. Excluding the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other Sales Results The following table sets forth Individual Life s annualized new business premiums, as defined under Results of Operations Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments 359 358 (318) Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net (124) (121) 79 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests 1 0 0 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 120 425 (1) Single pay life premiums and excess (unscheduled) premiums are included in annualized new business premiums based on a 10% credit and represented approximately 7%, 9% and 13% of Guaranteed Universal Life and 7%, 14% and 26% of Other Universal Life annualized new business premiums for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Prior period percentages have been updated to conform to current period presentation. sales of variable life products throughout the year including the impact of increased sales prior to pricing actions taken in the fourth quarter of 2020, partially offset by lower sales of other universal life products due to the absence of large case activity in 2020 and lower sales of term life products due to pricing actions. U.S. Businesses Assurance IQ Division Assurance IQ from October 10, 2019 ( acquisition date ) through December 31, 2019. (1) Represents activity from the acquisition date through December 31, 2019. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. distribution expenses, primarily related to our health (Medicare and Health Under 65) and life insurance product lines. Results also include amortization expenses related to intangible assets recognized as part of purchase accounting (see Note 1 and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). starting period of Assurance IQ s earnings with Prudential and includes revenues, net of marketing and distribution expenses, related to seasonal enrollments within our health product line, as well as operating expenses and amortization expenses related to intangible assets recognized as part of purchase accounting. revenues from our health (Medicare and Health Under 65) and life insurance product lines. Expenses for the year ended 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Term Life 26 122 148 27 173 200 28 185 213 Guaranteed Universal Life(1) 3 91 94 8 87 95 8 89 97 Other Universal Life(1) 17 74 91 38 117 155 45 105 150 Variable Life 100 349 449 78 200 278 54 109 163 2020 2019(1) Operating results: (2) Other adjustments include certain components of the consideration for the Assurance IQ acquisition, which are recognized as compensation expense over the requisite service periods, as well as changes in the fair value of contingent consideration. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Total 146 636 782 151 577 728 135 488 623 Revenues 391 101 Expenses 479 110 Adjusted operating income (88) (9) Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures (36) (56) Table of Contents 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Total annualized new business premiums increased 54 million, primarily reflecting higher Operating Results The following table sets forth Assurance IQ s operating results for the periods indicated. Results for 2019 only reflect activity Adjusted Operating Income Adjusted operating income for the year ended December 31, 2020 was (88) million, reflecting revenues, net of marketing and For the period from the acquisition date through December 31, 2019, adjusted operating income was (9) million, reflecting the Revenues and Expenses Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020 were 391 million, primarily reflecting commissions and marketing referral Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments 1 0 Other adjustments(2) 51 (47) Prudential Party Total Prudential Party Total Prudential (in millions) Party Total 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 121 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 122 425 December 31, 2020 were 479 million driven by marketing and distribution costs, general and administrative operating expenses including certain expenses (e.g., advertising costs) incurred in preparation for the annual Medicare enrollment period, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. commissions and marketing referral revenues from our health, life insurance, and property and casualty product lines. Expenses for the period from the acquisition date through December 31, 2019 were 110 million driven by marketing and distribution costs, general and administrative operating expenses, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. International Businesses inclusive of the effects of the intercompany arrangement discussed in Results of Operations Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates above. To provide a better understanding of operating performance within the International Businesses, where indicated below, we have analyzed our results of operations excluding the effect of the year over year change in foreign currency exchange rates. Our results of operations, excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, were derived by translating foreign currencies to USD at uniform exchange rates for all periods presented, including for constant dollar information discussed below. For our Japan operations, we used an exchange rate of 104 yen per USD, which was determined in connection with the foreign currency income hedging program discussed in Results of Operations Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates above. In addition, for constant dollar information discussed below, activity denominated in USD is generally reported based on the amounts as transacted in USD. Annualized new business premiums presented on a constant exchange rate basis in the Sales Results section below reflect translation based on these same uniform exchange rates. In the third quarter of 2020, we completed the sale of The Prudential Life Insurance Company of Korea, Ltd. ( POK ) to KB Financial Group Inc., for cash consideration of approximately 2.3 trillion Korean Won, equal to approximately 1.9 billion. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Effective in the second quarter of 2020, the results of this business and the impact of its sale were reflected in the Divested and Run-off Businesses that are included in Corporate and Other, and all prior period amounts have been updated to conform to the current period presentation. See Divested and Run-off Businesses for additional information. Table of Contents Revenues for the period from the acquisition date through December 31, 2019 were 101 million, primarily reflecting Business Updates In the third quarter of 2020, we entered into a definitive agreement with Taishin Financial Holding Co, Ltd., a Taiwanese financial services provider, to sell Prudential Life Insurance Company of Taiwan Inc. ( POT ) for cash consideration of approximately 195 million at current exchange rates, to be paid at closing, and contingent consideration with a fair value of approximately 15 million at December 31, 2020. The transaction is expected to close in 2021, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Beginning in the third quarter of 2020, we reported our investment in POT as held for sale and have recognized an approximate 350 million after-tax charge to earnings, through December 31, 2020, to adjust the carrying value of POT to the fair market value reflected in the purchase price (see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). Also, effective in the third quarter of 2020, the results of this business and the impact of its anticipated sale were reflected in the Divested and Run-off Businesses that are included in Corporate and Other, and all prior period amounts have been updated to conform to the current period presentation. We intend to use the proceeds of the transaction for general corporate purposes. Operating Results The results of our International Businesses operations are translated on the basis of weighted average monthly exchange rates, The following table sets forth the International Businesses operating results for the periods indicated: 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 123 425 (1) Effective second quarter of 2020, the results of POK and the impact of its sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Effective third quarter of 2020, the results of POT and the impact of its anticipated sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. a net unfavorable impact of 1 million from currency fluctuations, inclusive of the currency hedging program discussed above. Both periods also include the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, which resulted in a 42 million net charge in 2020 compared to a 5 million net benefit in 2019. The net charge in 2020 was primarily driven by unfavorable impacts related to a decrease in long-term interest rate assumptions. favorable underwriting results due to the growth of business in force in our Japan and Brazil operations and favorable policyholder experience, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from mortality experience. Also contributing to the increase were lower expenses primarily driven by the absence of updates to legal reserves incurred in the prior year period, partially offset by higher expenses driven by costs associated with COVID-19 (see Overview COVID-19 Expenses ) and higher costs related to business growth and business initiatives. These increases were partially offset by lower net investment spread results primarily driven by lower reinvestment yields. impact of 9 million from currency fluctuations, inclusive of the currency hedging program discussed above. Both periods also include the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, which resulted in a 52 million net charge in 2020 compared to a 7 million net benefit in 2019. The net charge in 2020 was primarily driven by updates of reserves reflecting the impact of a decrease in long-term interest rate assumptions, as well as other refinements. primarily reflecting lower net investment spread results driven by lower reinvestment yields, and lower earnings from our joint venture investments, as well as higher expenses driven by costs associated with COVID-19 (see Overview COVID-19 Expenses ). These decreases were partially offset by favorable underwriting results and a favorable impact from mortality experience. Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Operating results(1): Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures 3,550 4,202 3,278 (2) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. (3) Represents the immediate impacts in current period results from changes in current market conditions on estimates of profitability, which are excluded from adjusted operating income beginning with the second quarter of 2019. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Benefits and expenses: Adjusted operating income: Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(2) 727 1,240 317 Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net (42) (12) 11 Market experience updates(3) (39) (31) 0 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (48) (107) (69) Life Planner 10,122 9,605 9,000 Gibraltar Life and Other 11,454 11,331 11,058 Life Planner 8,618 8,172 7,657 Gibraltar Life and Other 10,006 9,652 9,382 Life Planner 1,504 1,433 1,343 Gibraltar Life and Other 1,448 1,679 1,676 Table of Contents Adjusted Operating Income 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income from our Life Planner operations increased 71 million including Excluding these items, adjusted operating income from our Life Planner operations increased 119 million, primarily reflecting Adjusted operating income from our Gibraltar Life and Other operations decreased 231 million including a net unfavorable Excluding these items, adjusted operating income from our Gibraltar Life and Other operations decreased 163 million, Total revenues 21,576 20,936 20,058 Total benefits and expenses 18,624 17,824 17,039 Total adjusted operating income 2,952 3,112 3,019 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 124 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 125 425 (1) Effective second quarter of 2020, the results of POK and the impact of its sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Effective third quarter of 2020, the results of POT and the impact of its anticipated sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. unfavorable impact of 109 million from currency fluctuations and a net benefit of 33 million from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding these items, revenues increased 593 million, primarily driven by higher premiums and policy charges and fee income attributable to the growth of business in force. from currency fluctuations and a net charge of 80 million from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding these items, benefits and expenses increased 474 million, primarily reflecting higher policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, driven by the growth of business in force, as well as an unfavorable impact from mortality experience. These increases were partially offset by lower expenses primarily driven by the absence of updates to legal reserves incurred in the prior year period, partially offset by higher expenses driven by costs associated with COVID-19 impacts. from currency fluctuations and a net charge of 9 million from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding these items, revenues increased 34 million primarily driven by higher premiums, partially offset by lower net investment results driven by lower reinvestment yields, and lower other income driven by an unfavorable impact from our joint venture investments. of 107 million from currency fluctuations and a net charge of 50 million from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding these items, benefits and expenses increased 197 million, primarily reflecting higher policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, as well as higher expenses driven by costs associated with COVID-19 impacts. Measures above, on an actual and constant exchange rate basis for the periods indicated: for any given period can be significantly impacted by several factors, including but not limited to: the addition of new products, discontinuation of existing products, changes in credited interest rates for certain products and other product modifications, changes in premium rates, changes in interest rates or fluctuations in currency markets, changes in tax laws, changes in life insurance regulations or changes in the competitive environment. Sales volume may increase or decrease prior to certain of these changes becoming effective, and then fluctuate in the other direction following such changes. Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Annualized new business premiums(1): On an actual exchange rate basis: On a constant exchange rate basis: Life Planner 1,041 1,097 1,023 Gibraltar Life and Other 1,149 1,213 1,483 Life Planner 1,087 1,105 1,021 Gibraltar Life and Other 1,153 1,220 1,492 Table of Contents Revenues, Benefits and Expenses 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Revenues from our Life Planner operations increased 517 million including a net Benefits and expenses from our Life Planner operations increased 446 million including a net favorable impact of 108 million Revenues from our Gibraltar Life and Other operations increased 123 million, including a net favorable impact of 98 million Benefits and expenses from our Gibraltar Life and Other operations increased 354 million including a net unfavorable impact Sales Results The following table sets forth annualized new business premiums, as defined under Results of Operations Segment The amount of annualized new business premiums and the sales mix in terms of types and currency denomination of products Total 2,190 2,310 2,506 Total 2,240 2,325 2,513 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 126 425 market and competitive dynamics, including the extremely low interest rate environment. We regularly examine our product offerings and their related profitability and, as a result, we have repriced or discontinued sales of certain products that do not meet our profit expectations. The impact of these actions, coupled with the introduction of certain new products, has generally resulted in an increase in sales of products denominated in USD relative to products denominated in other currencies. basis, by product category and distribution channel, for the periods indicated: (1) Includes retirement income, endowment and savings variable universal life. primarily driven by lower sales due to COVID-19 impacts, lower sales of corporate term products in Japan driven by the corporate product tax rule change effective July 2019, and lower Life Planner headcount, as discussed below. The decreases were partially offset by higher sales of USD-denominated products ahead of pricing increases in the third quarter of 2020. 67 million. Life Consultants sales decreased 119 million, primarily driven by COVID-19 impacts, lower sales of USD- denominated fixed annuity products driven by declines in crediting rates, and lower Life Consultant headcount (as discussed under Sales Force below). Bank channel sales increased 32 million, reflecting higher sales of USD-denominated protection products ahead of pricing increases in the third quarter of 2020, partially offset by lower sales due to COVID-19 impacts. Independent Agency sales increased 20 million, reflecting higher sales of USD-denominated protection and endowment products ahead of pricing increases in the third quarter of 2020, partially offset by lower sales of USD-denominated fixed annuity products. Year Ended December 31, 2020 Year Ended December 31, 2019 (in millions) Life Planner(2) 578 71 438 0 1,087 607 92 405 1 1,105 Gibraltar Life and Other: Subtotal 858 37 172 86 1,153 815 48 187 170 1,220 As of December 31, 2020 2019 2018 Life Planners: Gibraltar Life Consultants 7,254 7,403 7,964 (2) Effective second quarter of 2020, the results of POK and the impact of its sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Effective third quarter of 2020, the results of POT and the impact of its anticipated sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (3) Single pay life annualized new business premiums, which include 10% of first year premiums, and 3-year limited pay annualized new business premiums, which include 100% of new business premiums, represented 3% and 71%, respectively, of total Japanese bank distribution channel annualized new business premiums, excluding annuity products, for the year ended December 31, 2020, and 1% and 66%, respectively, of total Japanese bank distribution channel annualized new business premiums, excluding annuity products, for the year ended December 31, 2019. Life Consultants 340 33 58 63 494 349 40 82 142 613 Banks(3) 418 0 23 18 459 378 0 37 12 427 Independent Agency 100 4 91 5 200 88 8 68 16 180 Japan 4,555 4,356 4,183 All other countries(1) 1,511 1,833 1,640 Total 1,436 108 610 86 2,240 1,422 140 592 171 2,325 Table of Contents Our diverse product portfolio in Japan, in terms of currency mix and premium payment structure, allows us to adapt to changing 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. The table below presents annualized new business premiums on a constant exchange rate Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Life Planner operations decreased 18 million Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Gibraltar Life and Other operations decreased Sales Force The following table sets forth the number of Life Planners and Life Consultants for the periods indicated: Total 13,320 13,592 13,787 Retirement (1) Annuity Total Life Retirement (1) Annuity Total 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 127 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 128 425 (1) Effective second quarter of 2020, the results of POK and the impact of its sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Effective third quarter of 2020, the results of POT and the impact of its anticipated sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. primarily attributable to a decrease in Brazil as a result of increased terminations related to enhanced agency contract requirements. Life Planners in Japan increased by 199 as a result of recruiting efforts and fewer terminations. The number of Gibraltar Life Consultants decreased by 136, primarily reflecting more selective recruiting efforts and retention standards. Corporate and Other Businesses other than those that qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. (1) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. increased 58 million. Investment income decreased 116 million primarily driven by lower income on highly liquid assets due to lower investment yields, a decrease in average invested assets and lower income on non-coupon investments. Interest expense on debt increased 28 million, reflecting higher average debt balances. Net charges from other corporate activities decreased 44 million, primarily reflecting higher charges in the prior year period for certain corporate costs and initiatives, including a significant charge related to the implementation of the Company s Voluntary Separation Program (see Overview above), partially offset by increases to legal reserves in the current year period. benefit costs. decreased the discount rate from 3.30% to 2.55% as of December 31, 2020. The expected rate of return on plan assets will decrease from 6.00% in 2020 to 5.75% in 2021. The assumed rate of increase in compensation will remain unchanged at 4.50%. Giving effect to the foregoing assumptions and other factors, we expect income from our qualified pension plan in 2021 to be Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Operating results: Adjusted operating income (1,824) (1,766) (1,283) Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures (4,842) (1,273) (2,490) (2) Includes consolidating adjustments. (3) Represents the immediate impacts in current period results from changes in current market conditions on estimates of profitability, which are excluded from adjusted operating income beginning with the second quarter of 2019. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (4) Effective second quarter of 2020, the results of POK and the impact of its sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Effective third quarter of 2020, the results of POT and the impact of its anticipated sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Interest expense on debt(1) (894) (866) (809) Investment income(1) 134 250 169 Pension and employee benefits 191 149 195 Other corporate activities(2) (1,255) (1,299) (838) Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments (2,357) (193) 216 Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net 3 (53) 7 Market experience updates(3) (10) (10) 0 Divested and Run-off Businesses(4) (629) 755 (1,434) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (25) (6) 4 Table of Contents 2020 to 2019 Comparison. The number of Life Planners decreased by 123, driven by a decrease of 322 in other operations, Corporate and Other includes corporate operations, after allocations to our business segments, and Divested and Run-off 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. The loss from Corporate and Other operations, on an adjusted operating income basis, Results from pension and employee benefits were favorable by 42 million, primarily driven by a decrease in employee health For purposes of calculating pension income from our qualified pension plan for the year ended December 31, 2021, we 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 129 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 130 425 approximately 85 million to 90 million higher than 2020 levels. The increase is driven by lower interest costs on the plan obligation due to the lower discount rate. rate from 3.25% to 2.40% as of December 31, 2020. The expected rate of return on plan assets will remain unchanged at 6.75%. Giving effect to the foregoing assumptions and other factors, we expect postretirement income in 2021 to be approximately 15 million to 20 million higher than 2020 levels. The increase is driven by lower interest costs on the plan obligation due to the lower discount rate. business segments. For further information regarding our pension and postretirement plans, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Divested and Run-off Businesses exited, including businesses that have been placed in wind down status that do not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. The results of these Divested and Run-off Businesses are reflected in our Corporate and Other operations, but are excluded from adjusted operating income. A summary of the results of the Divested and Run-off Businesses reflected in our Corporate and Other operations is as follows for the periods indicated: (1) Effective second quarter of 2020, the results of POK and the impact of its sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Effective third quarter of 2020, the results of POT and the impact of its anticipated sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. unfavorable comparative net impact from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Results for 2020 included a 33 million net charge from these updates, while results for 2019 included a 9 million net charge from these updates. Excluding these items, results decreased 94 million primarily reflecting less favorable underwriting results including less favorable claim experience, an increase in reserves as a result of an unlocking of assumptions in the first quarter of 2020 due to the decline in interest rates, and a less favorable increase in the market value of equity securities. These decreases were partially offset by a more favorable increase in the market value of derivatives used for duration management. completed in August 2020, as well as the results of POT and the impact of its anticipated sale. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. assets that are used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies (collectively, the Closed Block ), as well as certain related assets and liabilities. We no longer offer these traditional domestic participating policies. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Long-Term Care 351 469 (1,458) Other(1) (980) 286 24 Total Divested and Run-off Businesses income (loss) excluded from adjusted operating income (629) 755 (1,434) Table of Contents For purposes of calculating postretirement benefit expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021, we decreased the discount In 2021, pension and other postretirement benefit service costs related to active employees will continue to be allocated to our Divested and Run-off Businesses Included in Corporate and Other Income from our Divested and Run-off Businesses includes results from several businesses that have been or will be sold or Long-Term Care. Results for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased 118 million compared to 2019, including an Other. Results for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily reflect the results of POK and the impact of its sale which was Closed Block Division The Closed Block division includes certain in-force traditional domestic participating life insurance and annuity products and 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 131 425 on participating policies for the following year based on the experience of the Closed Block, including investment income, net realized and unrealized investment gains (losses), mortality experience and other factors. Although the Closed Block experience for dividend action decisions is based upon statutory results, at the time the Closed Block was established, we developed, as required by U.S. GAAP, an actuarial calculation of the timing of the maximum future earnings from the policies included in the Closed Block. If actual cumulative earnings in any given period are greater than the cumulative earnings we expected, we record this excess as a policyholder dividend obligation. We will subsequently pay this excess to Closed Block policyholders as an additional dividend unless it is otherwise offset by future Closed Block performance that is less favorable than we originally expected. The policyholder dividends we charge to expense within the Closed Block division will include any change in our policyholder dividend obligation that we recognize for the excess of actual cumulative earnings in any given period over the cumulative earnings we expected in addition to the actual policyholder dividends declared by the Board of Directors of PICA. which was recorded as a policyholder dividend obligation. Actual cumulative earnings, as required by U.S. GAAP, reflect the recognition of realized investment gains and losses in the current period, as well as changes in assets and related liabilities that support the Closed Block policies. Additionally, the accumulation of net unrealized investment gains that have arisen subsequent to the establishment of the Closed Block has been reflected as a policyholder dividend obligation of 5,867 million at December 31, 2020, to be paid to Closed Block policyholders unless offset by future experience, with a corresponding amount reported in AOCI. decreased 60 million. Net investment activity results decreased primarily reflecting lower realized investment gains driven by unfavorable changes in the value of derivatives used in risk management activities, and a decrease in other income driven by less favorable changes in the value of equity securities. Net insurance activity results reflected a favorable comparative change driven by a decrease in the 2021 dividend scale and runoff of policies in force. As a result of the above and other variances, a 117 million increase in the policyholder dividend obligation was recorded in 2020, compared to a 564 million increase in 2019. If actual cumulative earnings fall below expected cumulative earnings in future periods, earnings volatility in the Closed Block division, which is primarily due to changes in investment results, may not be offset by changes in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation. For a discussion of the Closed Block division s realized investment gains (losses), net, see General Account Investments. gains, a decrease in other income, and lower premiums due to runoff of policies in force, as discussed above. decrease in the policyholder dividend obligation expense due to changes in cumulative earnings, as discussed above. and 2018, and the reported income tax (benefit) expense are provided in the following table: Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) U.S. GAAP results: Revenues 4,766 5,642 4,678 Benefits and expenses 4,790 5,606 4,740 Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures (24) 36 (62) Table of Contents Each year, the Board of Directors of The Prudential Insurance Company of America ( PICA ) determines the dividends payable As of December 31, 2020, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was 2,920 million, Operating Results The following table sets forth the Closed Block division s results for the periods indicated: Income (loss) Before Income Taxes and Equity in Earnings of Operating Joint Ventures 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures Revenues, Benefits and Expenses 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased 876 million primarily driven by a decrease in net realized investment Benefits and expenses decreased 816 million primarily driven by a decrease in dividends to policyholders, reflecting a The differences between income taxes expected at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 21% applicable for 2020, 2019 Income Taxes 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 132 425 (1) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. Effective Tax Rate earnings of operating joint ventures. Our effective tax rate for fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 25.1%, 18.6%, and 17.0%, respectively. For a detailed description of the nature of each significant reconciling item, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The change in the effective tax rate from 18.6% in 2019 to 25.0% in 2020 was primarily driven by a decrease in pre-tax net income, the sale of a subsidiary and the impact of the CARES Act. The increase in the effective tax rate from 17.0% in 2018 to 18.6% in 2019 was primarily driven by the impacts of the Tax Act of 2017 in 2018. Unrecognized Tax Benefits still subject to review by the Internal Revenue Service or other taxing authorities. The completion of review or the expiration of the Federal statute of limitations for a given audit period could result in an adjustment to the liability for income taxes. The total unrecognized benefit as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 17 million, 18 million and 20 million, respectively. We do not anticipate any significant changes within the next twelve months to our total unrecognized tax benefits related to tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired. Income Tax Expense vs. Income Tax Paid in Cash tax expense recorded under U.S. GAAP is based on income reported in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the current period and it includes both current and deferred taxes. Income taxes paid during the year include tax installments made for the current year as well as tax payments and refunds related to prior periods. Statements. results associated with these products are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. The majority of investments supporting these experience-rated products are carried at fair value. These investments are reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, at fair value. Realized and unrealized gains (losses) for these investments are reported in Other income (loss). Interest and dividend income for these 2020 2019(1) 2018(1) (in millions) Expected federal income tax expense (benefit) at federal statutory rate (68) 1,068 1,015 Non-taxable investment income (228) (270) (250) Foreign taxes at other than U.S. rate 252 234 347 Low-income housing and other tax credits (112) (118) (112) Changes in tax law (194) (2) (321) Sale of subsidiary 277 4 10 Non-controlling interest (48) (11) 0 Non-deductible expenses 14 23 33 Change in valuation allowance 17 (1) (6) State taxes 10 1 6 Other (1) 19 100 Year Ended December 31, Reported income tax expense (benefit) (81) 947 822 Effective tax rate 25.1 % 18.6 % 17.0 % Table of Contents The effective tax rate is the ratio of Total income tax expense (benefit) divided by Income before income taxes and equity in The Company s liability for income taxes includes the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and interest that relate to tax years Income tax expense recorded under U.S. GAAP routinely differs from the income taxes paid in cash in any given year. Income For additional information on income tax related items, see Business Regulation and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Certain products included in the Retirement and International Businesses segments are experience-rated in that investment Assets Supporting Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities and Other Related Investments Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 133 425 investments is reported in Net investment income. To a lesser extent, these experience-rated products are also supported by derivatives and commercial mortgage and other loans. The derivatives that support these experience-rated products are reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as Other invested assets and are carried at fair value, and the realized and unrealized gains (losses) are reported in Realized investment gains (losses), net. The commercial mortgage and other loans that support these experience-rated products are carried at unpaid principal, net of unamortized discounts and an allowance for losses, and are reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as Commercial mortgage and other loans. Gains (losses) on sales and changes in the valuation allowance for commercial mortgage and other loans are reported in Realized investment gains (losses), net. contractholder liabilities and other related investments. Fully participating products are those for which the entire return on underlying investments is passed back to the policyholders through a corresponding adjustment to the related liability, primarily classified in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as Policyholders account balances. The adjustment to the liability is based on changes in the fair value of all of the related assets, including commercial mortgage and other loans, which are carried at amortized cost, less any valuation allowance. Partially participating products are those for which only a portion of the return on underlying investments is passed back to the policyholders over time through changes to the contractual crediting rates. The crediting rates are typically reset semiannually, often subject to a minimum crediting rate, and returns are required to be passed back within ten years. underlying investments is passed back to policyholders through a corresponding adjustment to the related liability. liabilities, related derivatives and commercial mortgage and other loans. This is consistent with the exclusion of realized investment gains (losses) with respect to other investments supporting insurance liabilities managed on a consistent basis. In addition, to be consistent with the historical treatment of charges related to realized investment gains (losses) on investments, adjusted operating income also excludes the change in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments (including changes in the fair value of commercial mortgage and other loans) supporting these experience-rated contracts, which are reflected in Interest credited to policyholders account balances. The result of this approach is that adjusted operating income for these products includes net fee revenue and interest spread we earn on these experience-rated contracts, and excludes changes in fair value of the pool of investments, both realized and unrealized, that we expect will ultimately accrue to the contractholders. operating income: (1) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Retirement: Investment gains (losses) on assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, net(1) 602 699 (472) Change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes (625) (682) 435 International Businesses: Investment gains (losses) on assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, net 68 267 (275) Change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes (68) (267) 275 Total: Investment gains (losses) on assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, net(1) 670 966 (747) Change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes (693) (949) 710 (2) Decreases to contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes are limited by certain floors and therefore do not reflect cumulative declines in recorded asset values of 3 million, 7 million and 99 million as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We have recovered, and expect to recover in future periods, these declines in recorded asset values through subsequent increases in recorded asset values or reductions in crediting rates on contractholder liabilities. Gains (losses), net, on experienced rated contracts(2)(3) (23) 17 (37) Gains (losses), net, on experienced rated contracts 0 0 0 Gains (losses), net, on experienced rated contracts(2)(3) (23) 17 (37) Table of Contents Our Retirement segment has two types of experience-rated products that are supported by assets supporting experience-rated In our International Businesses, the experience-rated products are fully participating. As a result, the entire return on the Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains (losses) on assets supporting experience-rated contractholder The following table sets forth the impact on results for the periods indicated of these items that are excluded from adjusted 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 134 425 (losses) on assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities and other related investments reflect timing differences between the recognition of the mark-to-market adjustments and the recognition of the recovery of these adjustments in future periods through subsequent increases in asset values or reductions in crediting rates on contractholder liabilities for partially participating products. These impacts also reflect the difference between the fair value of the underlying commercial mortgages and other loans and the amortized cost, less any valuation allowance, of these loans, as described above. Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities to classify the inputs used in measuring fair value. The level in the hierarchy within which the fair value falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the measurement. The fair values of assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 include at least one significant unobservable input in the measurement. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for an additional description of the valuation hierarchy levels as well as for the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis by hierarchy level presented on a consolidated basis. indicated, and the portion of such assets and liabilities that are classified in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. The table also provides details about these assets and liabilities excluding those held in the Closed Block division. We believe the amounts excluding the Closed Block division are most relevant to an understanding of our operations that are pertinent to investors in Prudential Financial because substantially all Closed Block division assets support obligations and liabilities relating to the Closed Block policies only. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Closed Block. (3) Included in the amounts above related to the change in the liability to contractholders as a result of commercial mortgage and other loans are increases of 6 million and 57 million, and a decrease of 23 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As prescribed by U.S. GAAP, changes in the fair value of commercial mortgage and other loans held for investment in our general account, other than when associated with impairments, are not recognized in income in the current period, while the impact of these changes in fair value are reflected as a change in the liability to fully participating contractholders in the current period. Table of Contents The net impacts, for the Retirement segment, of changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities and investment gains The authoritative guidance related to fair value measurement establishes a framework that includes a three-level hierarchy used The table below presents the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, as of the periods Valuation of Assets and Liabilities 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 135 425 (1) Level 3 assets expressed as a percentage of total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis for PFI excluding the Closed Block division and for the Closed Block division totaled 1.3% and 2.6%, respectively, as of December 31, 2020 and 1.1% and 2.0%, respectively, as of December 31, 2019. assumptions, can have a significant impact on our results of operations and may require the application of a greater degree of judgment depending on market conditions, as the ability to value assets and liabilities can be significantly impacted by a decrease in market activity or a lack of transactions executed in an orderly manner. valuations or indicative broker quotes. For certain private fixed maturity and equity securities, the internal valuation models use significant unobservable inputs and, accordingly, such securities are included in Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fixed maturity securities for PFI excluding the Closed Block division included approximately 1.3 billion of public fixed maturities as of December 31, 2020 with values primarily based on indicative broker quotes, and approximately 4.6 billion of private fixed maturities, with values primarily based on internally-developed models. Significant unobservable inputs used in their valuation included: issue specific spread adjustments, material non-public financial information, management judgment, estimation of future earnings and cash flows, default rate assumptions, liquidity assumptions and indicative quotes from market makers. Separate account assets included in Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy primarily include corporate securities and commercial mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2020 As of December 31, 2019 (in millions) Fixed maturities, available-for- sale 370,681 5,005 42,224 1,038 349,720 3,570 41,376 745 Assets supporting experience- Fixed maturities, trading 3,636 230 278 13 3,628 275 256 12 Equity securities 5,653 576 2,345 84 5,140 557 2,245 76 Commercial mortgage and other loans 1,092 0 0 0 228 0 0 0 Other invested assets(3) 2,268 366 3 0 1,433 567 0 0 Short-term investments 6,222 146 88 31 3,789 119 147 36 Cash equivalents 5,241 1 241 0 8,855 99 151 32 Other assets 268 268 0 0 113 113 0 0 Separate account assets 304,270 1,821 0 0 288,724 1,717 0 0 Future policy benefits 18,879 18,879 0 0 12,831 12,831 0 0 Policyholders account Other liabilities(3) 385 0 0 0 928 105 8 0 Notes issued by consolidated variable interest entities ( VIEs ) 0 0 0 0 800 800 0 0 (2) All other represents cash equivalents and short-term investments. (3) Other invested assets and Other liabilities primarily include derivatives. The amounts include the impact of netting subject to master netting agreements. The determination of fair value, which for certain assets and liabilities is dependent on the application of estimates and rated contractholder liabilities: Fixed maturities 21,414 615 0 0 19,530 730 0 0 balances 1,914 1,914 0 0 1,316 1,316 0 0 Equity securities 2,043 0 0 0 1,790 0 0 0 All other(2) 619 20 0 0 261 0 0 0 Table of Contents Fixed maturity securities included in Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy are generally priced based on internally-developed Subtotal 24,076 635 0 0 21,581 730 0 0 Total assets 723,407 9,048 45,179 1,166 683,211 7,747 44,175 901 Total liabilities 21,178 20,793 0 0 15,875 15,052 8 0 Fair Value PFI excluding Closed Block Division Closed Block Division Level 3(1) Fair Value Level 3(1) Fair Value PFI excluding Closed Block Division Closed Block Division Level 3(1) Fair Value Level 3(1) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 136 425 our fair value hierarchy represent general account liabilities pertaining to living benefit features of the Company s variable annuity contracts and the index-linked interest credited features on certain life and annuity products. These are carried at fair value with changes in fair value included in Realized investment gains (losses), net. These embedded derivatives are valued using internally- developed models that require significant estimates and assumptions developed by management. Changes in these estimates and assumptions can have a significant impact on the results of our operations. fair value, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. general liabilities. Investments and other assets that do not support general account liabilities, and are therefore excluded from our general account, are as follows: excluding the Closed Block division and of the Closed Block division. The primary investment objectives of PFI excluding the Closed Block division include: objectives, also takes into account the capital and tax implications of portfolio activity and our assertions regarding our ability and intent to hold debt securities to recovery. For a further discussion of our allowance for credit losses, including our assertions regarding any intention or requirement to sell debt securities before anticipated recovery, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses Credit Losses below. account portfolios, and regularly reviews performance and risk positions. Our Chief Investment Officer Organization ( CIO Organization ) develops investment policies subject to risk limits proposed by our Enterprise Risk Management ( ERM ) group for the general account portfolios of our domestic and international insurance subsidiaries and directs and Management of Investments Table of Contents Embedded derivatives reported in Future policy benefits and Policyholders account balances that are included in level 3 of For additional information about the valuation techniques and the key estimates and assumptions used in our determination of We maintain diversified investment portfolios in our general account to support our liabilities to customers as well as our other assets of our derivative operations assets of our investment management operations, including investments managed for third-parties and those assets classified as Separate account assets on our balance sheet. The general account portfolios are managed pursuant to the distinct objectives and investment policy statements of PFI hedging and otherwise managing the market risk characteristics of the major product liabilities and other obligations of the Company optimizing investment income yield within risk constraints over time and for certain portfolios, optimizing total return, including both investment income yield and capital appreciation, within risk constraints over time, while managing the market risk exposures associated with the corresponding product liabilities. We pursue our objective to optimize investment income yield for PFI excluding the Closed Block division over time through: the investment of net operating cash flows, including new product premium inflows, and proceeds from investment sales, repayments and prepayments into investments with attractive risk-adjusted yields and the sale of investments, where appropriate, either to meet various cash flow needs or to manage the portfolio's risk exposure profile with respect to duration, credit, currency and other risk factors, while considering the impact on taxes and capital. The primary investment objectives of the Closed Block division include: providing for the reasonable dividend expectations of the participating policyholders within the Closed Block division and optimizing total return, including both investment income yield and capital appreciation, within risk constraints, while managing the market risk exposures associated with the major products in the Closed Block division. Our portfolio management approach, while emphasizing our investment income yield and asset liability risk management The Investment Committee of our Board of Directors ( Board ) oversees our proprietary investments, including our general General Account Investments 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 137 425 oversees management of the general account portfolios within risk limits and exposure ranges approved annually by the Investment Committee. ERM to understand the characteristics of our products and their associated market risk exposures. This information is incorporated into the development of target asset portfolios that manage market risk exposures associated with the liability characteristics and establish investment risk exposures, within tolerances prescribed by Prudential s investment risk limits, on which we expect to earn an attractive risk-adjusted return. We develop asset strategies for specific classes of product liabilities and attributed or accumulated surplus, each with distinct risk characteristics. Market risk exposures associated with the liabilities include interest rate risk, which is addressed through the duration characteristics of the target asset mix, and currency risk, which is addressed by the currency profile of the target asset mix. In certain of our smaller markets outside of the U.S. and Japan, capital markets limitations hinder our ability to hedge interest rate exposure to the same extent we do for our U.S. and Japan businesses and lead us to accept a higher degree of interest rate risk in these smaller portfolios. General account portfolios typically include allocations to credit and other investment risks as a means to enhance investment yields and returns over time. liabilities, and the portfolios have a target asset mix that supports the liability characteristics, including duration, cash flow, liquidity needs and other criteria. As of December 31, 2020, the average duration of our domestic general account investment portfolios attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division, including the impact of derivatives, was between 7 and 8 years. As of December 31, 2020, the average duration of our international general account portfolios attributable to our Japanese insurance operations, including the impact of derivatives, was between 12 and 13 years and represented a blend of yen-denominated and U.S. dollar and Australian dollar-denominated investments, which have distinct average durations supporting the insurance liabilities we have issued in those currencies. Our asset liability management process has enabled us to manage our portfolios through several market cycles. government and agency securities, public and private corporate bonds and structured securities and commercial mortgage loans. In addition, we hold allocations of non-coupon investments, which include equity securities and other invested assets such as LPs LLCs, real estate held through direct ownership, derivative instruments, and seed money investments in separate accounts. and to a profile that also reflects the market environments impacting both our domestic and international insurance portfolios. The return that we earn on the portfolio will be reflected in investment income and in realized gains or losses on investments. properties in terms of geography, property type and borrowers, to enhance the yield on our portfolio and to improve the overall diversification of the portfolios. Private placements typically offer enhanced yields due to an illiquidity premium and generally offer enhanced credit protection in the form of covenants. Our origination capability offers the opportunity to lead transactions and gives us the opportunity for better terms, including covenants and call protection, and to take advantage of innovative deal structures. rate and currency risk exposures of the asset portfolio relative to the liabilities and to manage credit and equity positions in the investment portfolios. For a discussion of our risk management process, see Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk below. Organization, directly and through related functions within the insurance subsidiaries, implements portfolio strategies primarily through various investment management units within Prudential s PGIM segment. Activities of the PGIM segment on behalf of Table of Contents The CIO Organization, including related functions within our insurance subsidiaries, works closely with product actuaries and Most of our products can be categorized into the following three classes: interest-crediting products for which the rates credited to customers are periodically adjusted to reflect market and competitive forces and actual investment experience, such as fixed annuities and universal life insurance participating individual and experience-rated group products in which customers participate in actual investment and business results through annual dividends, interest or return of premium and products with fixed or guaranteed terms, such as traditional whole life and endowment products, guaranteed investment contracts ( GICs ), funding agreements and payout annuities. Our total investment portfolio is composed of a number of operating portfolios. Each operating portfolio backs a specific set of We implement our portfolio strategies primarily through investment in a broad range of fixed income assets, including We manage our public fixed maturity portfolio to a risk profile directed or overseen by the CIO Organization and ERM groups We use privately-placed corporate debt securities and commercial mortgage loans, which consist of mortgages on diversified Derivative strategies are employed in the context of our risk management framework to enhance our ability to manage interest Our portfolio asset allocation reflects our emphasis on diversification across asset classes, sectors and issuers. The CIO 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 138 425 the general account portfolios are directed and overseen by the CIO Organization and monitored by ERM for compliance with investment risk limits. environmental, social and governance factors into their respective investment processes as appropriate. These factors include investing in opportunities to support diversity and inclusion and to help mitigate climate change by pursuing relevant investments across asset classes. loans and non-coupon investments as defined above. The composition of our general account reflects, within the discipline provided by our risk management approach, our need for competitive results and the selection of diverse investment alternatives available primarily through our PGIM segment. The size of our portfolio enables us to invest in asset classes that may be unavailable to the typical investor. Table of Contents In executing the activities on behalf of the general account portfolio, Prudential investment management units are incorporating Our investment portfolio consists of public and private fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, policy Portfolio Composition 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 139 425 the Closed Block division and the Closed Block division, as of the dates indicated: (1) Other invested assets consist of investments in LPs LLCs, investment real estate held through direct ownership, derivative instruments and other miscellaneous investments. For additional information regarding these investments, see Other Invested Assets below. December 31, 2020 ( in millions) Fixed maturities: Fixed maturities, trading, at fair value 3,425 0.7 277 3,702 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, at fair value 24,115 5.0 0 24,115 Equity securities, at fair value 5,108 1.1 2,345 7,453 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value, net of allowance 55,892 11.5 8,421 64,313 Policy loans, at outstanding balance 7,207 1.5 4,064 11,271 Other invested assets, net of allowance(1) 10,716 2.1 3,610 14,326 Short-term investments, net of allowance 7,640 1.5 124 7,764 Invested assets of other entities and operations(2) 6,485 0 6,485 December 31, 2019 ( in millions) Fixed maturities: Fixed maturities, trading, at fair value 2,467 0.5 256 2,723 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, at fair value 21,597 4.7 0 21,597 Equity securities, at fair value 4,586 1.0 2,245 6,831 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value, net of allowance 54,671 12.0 8,629 63,300 Policy loans, at outstanding balance 7,832 1.7 4,264 12,096 Other invested assets(1) 9,210 2.0 3,334 12,544 Short-term investments 5,223 1.1 227 5,450 Invested assets of other entities and operations(2) 5,778 0 5,778 (2) Includes invested assets of our investment management and derivative operations. Excludes assets of our investment management operations that are managed for third-parties and those assets classified as Separate account assets on our balance sheet. For additional information regarding these investments, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. Public, available-for-sale, at fair value 309,813 63.7 % 29,475 339,288 Public, held-to-maturity, at amortized cost, net of allowance 1,719 0.4 0 1,719 Private, available-for-sale, at fair value 60,224 12.4 12,749 72,973 Private, held-to-maturity, at amortized cost, net of allowance 211 0.1 0 211 Total general account investments 486,070 100.0 % 61,065 547,135 Total investments 492,555 61,065 553,620 Public, available-for-sale, at fair value 296,382 64.9 % 29,011 325,393 Public, held-to-maturity, at amortized cost 1,705 0.4 0 1,705 Private, available-for-sale, at fair value 52,750 11.6 12,365 65,115 Private, held-to-maturity, at amortized cost 228 0.1 0 228 Total general account investments 456,651 100.0 % 60,331 516,982 Total investments 462,429 60,331 522,760 Table of Contents The following tables set forth the composition of our general account investment portfolio apportioned between PFI excluding Closed Block Division Closed Block Division PFI Excluding PFI Excluding Closed Block Closed Block Division Total Division Total 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 140 425 to a decrease in interest rates, the reinvestment of net investment income and net business inflows. For information regarding the methodology used in determining the fair value of our fixed maturities, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. excluding the Closed Block division related to our Japanese insurance operations. The following table sets forth the composition of the investments of our Japanese insurance operations general account, as of the dates indicated: (1) Other invested assets consist of investments in LPs LLCs, investment real estate held through direct ownership, derivative instruments and other miscellaneous investments. decrease in interest rates, the reinvestment of net investment income and net business inflows. in U.S. dollars, including 1.8 billion that were hedged to yen through third-party derivative contracts and 74.8 billion that support liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars, with the remainder as part of the hedging of foreign currency exchange rate exposure to U.S. dollar-equivalent equity. As of December 31, 2019, our Japanese insurance operations had 77.1 billion, at carrying value, of investments denominated in U.S. dollars, including 2.1 billion that were hedged to yen through third-party derivative contracts and 62.4 billion that support liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars, with the remainder as part of the hedging of foreign currency exchange rate exposure of U.S. dollar-equivalent equity. The 12.1 billion increase in the carrying value of U.S. dollar-denominated investments from December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to a decrease in the U.S. treasury bond rates, reinvestment of net investment income and portfolio growth as a result of net business inflows. Australian dollars that support liabilities denominated in Australian dollars as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The 0.3 billion increase in the carrying value of Australian dollar-denominated investments from December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to the translation impact of the Australian dollar strengthening against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by run off of the portfolio. For additional information regarding U.S. and Australian dollar investments held in our Japanese insurance operations and a discussion of our yen hedging strategy, see Results of Operations by Segment Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates above. Investment Results Block division and the Closed Block division, for the periods indicated. The yields are based on net investment income as (in millions) Fixed maturities: Fixed maturities, trading, at fair value 550 492 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, at fair value 3,149 2,777 Equity securities, at fair value 2,134 2,185 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value, net of allowance 19,915 19,138 Policy loans, at outstanding balance 3,078 2,859 Other invested assets(1) 3,045 2,187 Short-term investments, net of allowance 438 165 Public, available-for-sale, at fair value 154,261 142,220 Public, held-to-maturity, at amortized cost, net of allowance 1,719 1,705 Private, available-for-sale, at fair value 21,748 19,189 Private, held-to-maturity, at amortized cost, net of allowance 211 228 Total Japanese general account investments 210,248 193,145 Table of Contents The increase in general account investments attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division in 2020 was primarily due As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, 43% and 42%, respectively, of our general account investments attributable to PFI The increase in general account investments related to our Japanese insurance operations in 2020 was primarily attributable to a As of December 31, 2020, our Japanese insurance operations had 89.2 billion, at carrying value, of investments denominated Our Japanese insurance operations had 10.2 billion and 9.9 billion, at carrying value, of investments denominated in The following tables set forth the investment results of our general account apportioned between PFI excluding the Closed December 31, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 141 425 reported under U.S. GAAP and as such do not include certain interest-related items, such as settlements of duration management swaps which are included in Realized investment gains (losses), net. Fixed maturities(2) 4.59 % 7,416 2.78 % 3,875 3.75 % 11,291 1,566 12,857 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities 3.22 637 1.88 52 3.06 689 0 689 Equity securities 2.01 48 3.62 72 2.74 120 42 162 Commercial mortgage and other loans 3.95 1,377 2.89 731 3.91 2,108 358 2,466 Policy loans 5.31 238 3.23 98 4.47 336 247 583 Short-term investments and cash equivalents 0.83 171 0.86 14 0.83 185 6 191 Investment income after investment expenses 3.94 % 9,615 2.75 % 4,597 3.45 % 14,212 2,083 16,295 Total investment income 10,328 4,842 15,170 2,240 17,410 Gross investment income 4.06 9,887 2.89 4,842 3.58 14,729 2,219 16,948 Investment expenses (0.12) (272) (0.14) (245) (0.13) (517) (136) (653) Investment results of other entities and operations(4) 300 0 300 0 300 Other invested assets(3) 413 245 658 157 815 Table of Contents PFI Excluding Closed Block Division and Japanese Operations Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Amount Amount Japanese Insurance Operations Year Ended December 31, 2020 ( in millions) PFI Excluding Closed Block Division Division Total(5) Closed Block 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 142 425 (1) The denominator in the yield percentage is based on quarterly average carrying values for all asset types except for fixed maturities which are based on amortized cost (2019 and 2018) and amortized cost, net of allowance (2020). Amounts for fixed maturities, short-term investments and cash equivalents are also netted for securities lending activity (i.e., income netted for rebate expenses and asset values netted for securities lending liabilities). A yield is not presented for other invested assets as it is not considered a meaningful measure of investment performance. Total yields exclude investment income and assets related to other invested assets. Fixed maturities(2) 4.71 % 7,567 2.87 % 3,842 3.87 % 11,409 1,713 13,122 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities 3.61 678 1.99 52 3.42 730 0 730 Equity securities 2.30 49 3.27 66 2.77 115 45 160 Commercial mortgage and other loans 4.21 1,406 4.29 767 4.24 2,173 388 2,561 Policy loans 5.36 256 3.92 107 4.84 363 255 618 Short-term investments and cash equivalents 2.58 373 3.40 27 2.62 400 32 432 Investment income after investment expenses 4.28 % 9,929 2.90 % 4,581 3.73 % 14,510 2,224 16,734 Total investment income 10,497 4,765 15,262 2,323 17,585 Fixed maturities(2) 4.68 % 7,004 2.93 % 3,707 3.87 % 10,711 1,692 12,403 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities 3.62 674 1.81 46 3.41 720 0 720 Equity securities 2.28 48 3.45 72 2.86 120 45 165 Commercial mortgage and other loans 4.03 1,299 3.96 623 4.01 1,922 407 2,329 Policy loans 5.44 258 3.92 101 4.91 359 263 622 Short-term investments and cash equivalents 2.20 265 2.83 33 2.25 298 30 328 Investment income after investment expenses 4.21 % 9,151 2.91 % 4,345 3.68 % 13,496 2,233 15,729 Total investment income 9,450 4,438 13,888 2,288 16,176 Gross investment income 4.41 10,329 3.04 4,861 3.86 15,190 2,433 17,623 Gross investment income 4.36 9,548 3.04 4,582 3.82 14,130 2,437 16,567 Investment expenses (0.13) (400) (0.14) (280) (0.13) (680) (209) (889) Investment results of other entities and operations(4) 190 0 190 0 190 Investment expenses (0.15) (397) (0.13) (237) (0.14) (634) (204) (838) Investment results of other entities and operations(4) 78 0 78 0 78 Other invested assets(3) 378 184 562 99 661 Other invested assets(3) 221 93 314 55 369 Table of Contents PFI Excluding Closed PFI Excluding Closed Block Division and Japanese Operations Block Division and Japanese Operations Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Amount Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Amount Amount Japanese Insurance Japanese Insurance Operations Operations Year Ended December 31, 2019 Year Ended December 31, 2018 ( in millions) ( in millions) PFI Excluding Closed PFI Excluding Closed Block Division Block Division Division Total(5) Division Total(5) Closed Block Closed Block 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 143 425 (2) Includes fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-sale and held-to-maturity and excludes fixed maturity securities classified as trading, which are included in other invested assets. (3) Other invested assets consist of investments in LPs LLCs, investment real estate held through direct ownership, derivative instruments, fixed maturities classified as trading and other miscellaneous investments. (4) Includes net investment income of our investment management operations. (5) The total yield was 3.54%, 3.81% and 3.77% for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. both the Closed Block division and the Japanese insurance operations portfolio, for 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily the result of lower fixed income reinvestment rates. for 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily the result of lower fixed income reinvestment rates. party derivative contracts provide a yield that is substantially higher than the yield on comparable yen-denominated fixed maturities. The average amortized cost of U.S. dollar-denominated fixed maturities that are not hedged to yen through third-party derivative contracts was approximately 54.2 billion and 47.5 billion, for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The majority of U.S. dollar-denominated fixed maturities support liabilities that are denominated in U.S. dollars. The average amortized cost of Australian dollar-denominated fixed maturities that are not hedged to yen through third-party derivative contracts was approximately 8.2 billion and 8.4 billion, for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The majority of Australian dollar-denominated fixed maturities support liabilities that are denominated in Australian dollars. For additional information regarding U.S. and Australian dollar investments held in our Japanese insurance operations, see Results of Operations by Segment Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates above. Realized Investment Gains and Losses excluding Closed Block division and the Closed Block division by investment type as well as Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net and adjustments, for the periods indicated: Table of Contents The decrease in investment income after investment expenses yield attributable to our general account investments, excluding The decrease in investment income after investment expenses yield attributable to the Japanese insurance operations portfolio Both the U.S. dollar-denominated and Australian dollar-denominated fixed maturities that are not hedged to yen through third- The following table sets forth Realized investment gains (losses), net of our general account apportioned between PFI 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 144 425 (1) Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused or will lead to a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. The amount of the impairment or allowance recorded in earnings is the difference between the amortized cost of the debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate implicit in the debt security prior to impairment (2019 and 2018) or allowance (2020). Years Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) PFI excluding Closed Block Division: Realized investment gains (losses), net: Subtotal (4,126) (942) 1,621 Total PFI excluding Closed Block Division (4,069) (980) 1,847 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(6) (4,156) (835) 611 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net and adjustments(6) (4,315) (958) 296 Closed Block Division: Realized investment gains (losses), net: Subtotal Closed Block Division 182 521 130 Consolidated PFI realized investment gains (losses), net (3,887) (459) 1,977 Fixed maturity securities(4) 452 635 288 Commercial mortgage and other loans 10 (6) (15) Derivatives (4,571) (1,623) 1,249 Other (17) 52 99 Investment results of other entities and operations(5) 57 (38) 226 Related adjustments(6) (87) 145 (1,236) Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net (159) (123) (315) Fixed maturity securities(4) 277 334 (60) Commercial mortgage and other loans 0 3 (6) Derivatives (87) 193 193 Other (8) (9) 3 OTTI losses on other invested assets recognized in earnings (33) (18) (7) Allowance for credit losses on other invested assets (1) N A N A Other net gains (losses) 17 70 106 OTTI losses on other invested assets recognized in earnings 0 0 (1) Allowance for credit losses on other invested assets 0 N A N A Other net gains (losses) (8) (9) 4 Allowance for credit losses on fixed maturities(1)(3) (105) N A N A Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities 777 867 504 Allowance for credit losses on fixed maturities(1)(3) (27) N A N A Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities 388 417 3 Due to foreign exchange movements on securities approaching maturity(2) (26) (53) (23) Due to securities actively marketed for sale(2) (83) (4) (24) Due to credit or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(1)(3) (111) (175) (169) Due to foreign exchange movements on securities approaching maturity(2) (69) (56) (28) Due to securities actively marketed for sale(2) (9) 0 (9) Due to credit or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(1)(3) (6) (27) (26) Table of Contents 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 145 425 (2) Represents the difference between the fair value of the debt security and the amortized cost at the time of the write-down. (3) Beginning January 1, 2020, related to the implementation of ASU 2016-13, write-offs of credit adverse securities are reported as OTTI. (4) Includes fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-sale and held-to-maturity and excludes fixed maturity securities classified as trading. (5) Includes realized investment gains (losses), net of our investment management operations. (6) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, primarily driven by the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements of U.S. and Australian dollar-denominated securities that matured or were sold within our International Businesses segment and other sales of fixed maturity securities within our domestic segments driven by interest rate declines during the investment holding period. Operations by Segment U.S. Businesses U.S. Individual Solutions Division Individual Annuities above. income and the portions of Other income (loss) and Net investment income that are excluded from adjusted operating income. These adjustments are made to arrive at Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments which are excluded from adjusted operating income. Results for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 reflected related adjustments of net negative 87 million and net positive 145 million, respectively. Both periods results reflected settlements and changes in value related to interest rate and currency derivatives, as well as changes in the fair value of equity securities and fixed income securities designated as trading. Additionally, the results for 2020 included the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on certain non-local currency denominated assets and liabilities, for which the majority of the foreign currency exposure is hedged and offset in Realized Investment gains (losses), net. reflected as net charges or net benefits. Results for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 reflected net related charges of 159 million and 123 million, respectively. Both periods results were primarily driven by the impact of derivative activity on the amortization of DAC and other costs, and certain policyholder reserves. 2020 to 2019 Annual Comparison Table of Contents Net gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities were 777 million and 867 million for the years ended December Net realized losses on derivative instruments of 4,571 million, for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily included: 3,957 million of losses on product-related embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity contracts and 2,362 million of losses on capital hedges due to increases in equity indices. Partially offsetting these losses were: 1,483 million of gains on interest rate derivatives due to decreases in swap and U.S. Treasury rates 139 million of gains for fees earned on fee-based synthetic GICs and 61 million of gains on foreign currency hedges due to Japanese yen strengthening against U.S. dollar. Net realized losses on derivative instruments of 1,623 million, for the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily included: 2,677 million of losses on product-related embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity contracts and 1,070 million of losses on capital hedges due to increases in equity indices. Partially offsetting these losses were: 1,354 million of gains on interest rate derivatives due to decreases in swap and U.S. Treasury rates 378 million of gains on foreign currency hedges due to U.S. dollar appreciation versus the euro 145 million of gains for fees earned on fee-based synthetic GICs and 124 million of gains on credit default swaps primarily due to spreads tightening. For a discussion of living benefit guarantees and related hedge positions in our Individual Annuities segment, see Results of Related adjustments include the portions of Realized investment gains (losses), net that are included in adjusted operating Charges that relate to Realized investment gains (losses), net are also excluded from adjusted operating income and may be Credit Losses 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 146 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 147 425 economic conditions worsen and to decrease when economic conditions improve. Historically, the causes of credit losses have been specific to each individual issuer and have not directly resulted in credit losses to other securities within the same industry or geographic region. We may also realize additional credit and interest rate-related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. that require special scrutiny and management. For private placements, our credit and portfolio management processes help ensure prudent controls over valuation and management. We have separate pricing and authorization processes to establish checks and balances for new investments. We apply consistent standards of credit analysis and due diligence for all transactions, whether they originate through our own in-house origination staff or through agents. Our regional offices closely monitor the portfolios in their regions. We set all valuation standards centrally, and we assess the fair value of all investments quarterly. Our public and private fixed maturity investment managers formally review all public and private fixed maturity holdings on a quarterly basis and more frequently when necessary to identify potential credit deterioration whether due to ratings downgrades, unexpected price variances and or company or industry-specific concerns. investments is written down or impaired to fair value when a decline in value is considered to be other-than-temporary. investment portfolio. Due to the highly uncertain nature of these conditions, it is not possible to estimate the overall impacts at this time. We believe our investment portfolio has been diligently constructed with a strong focus on ALM discipline, risk management, and capital preservation and although certain industries will likely be more impacted by COVID-19 driven market conditions, we expect to benefit from our experience in managing highly specialized asset classes through multiple credit cycles. The following represents some of the sectors in our investment portfolio most impacted by COVID-19. Energy Related Investments approximately 14 billion including a net unrealized gain of 1 billion, which was reflected in AOCI. This 14 billion represented investments in public and private corporate fixed maturity securities (excluding trading securities) and was comprised of the midstream (43%), independent energy (25%), integrated energy (20%), oil field services (6%) and refining (6%) sub-sectors. As of December 31, 2020, the credit quality of energy sector fixed maturity securities was 86% investment grade and 14% below investment grade. Energy related investment realized losses were approximately 184 million, comprised of 126 million of write- downs and 58 million of addition to credit loss allowances for the year ended December 31, 2020. Our investments in the energy sector could experience future valuation declines or losses if energy prices maintain their recent levels or continue to decline for an extended period of time. Our assessment that securities are other-than-temporarily impaired may change due to new developments, including those developments related to COVID-19. Consumer Cyclical Related Investments of approximately 13 billion and a net unrealized gain of 1 billion, which was reflected in AOCI. This 13 billion represented investments in public and private corporate fixed maturity securities (excluding trading securities) and included exposures in retail (37%), automotive (18%), leisure (7%), restaurants (7%), gaming (4%) and lodging (1%). As of December 31, 2020, the credit quality of consumer cyclical sector fixed maturity securities was 79% investment grade and 21% below investment grade. For additional information regarding Retail Related Investments, see below. Retail Related Investments consisting primarily of 6 billion of corporate fixed maturities of which 89% were considered investment grade (also included in Consumer Cyclical Related Investments ) 6 billion of commercial mortgage loans with a weighted-average loan-to-value ratio of approximately 58% and weighted-average debt service coverage ratio of 2.13 times and 1 billion of real estate held through direct ownership and real estate-related LPs LLCs. In addition, we held approximately 11 billion of commercial mortgage-backed securities, of which approximately 99% and 1% were rated AAA (super-senior) and AA to A, Table of Contents The level of credit losses generally reflects current and expected economic conditions and is expected to increase when We maintain separate monitoring processes for public and private fixed maturities and create watch lists to highlight securities For LPs LLCs accounted for using the equity method and for wholly-owned investment real estate, the carrying value of these A continued impact of COVID-19 on the global economy and corporate credit may result in losses and credit migration in our As of December 31, 2020, PFI excluding the Closed Block division had energy related exposure with a market value of As of December 31, 2020, PFI excluding the Closed Block division had consumer cyclical related exposure with a market value As of December 31, 2020, PFI excluding the Closed Block division had retail related investments of approximately 13 billion 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 148 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 149 425 respectively, and comprised of diversified collateral pools. Approximately 30% of the collateral pools were comprised of retail- related investments, with no pools solely collateralized by retail related investments. For additional information regarding commercial mortgage-backed securities, see Fixed Maturity Securities Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality below. Airline Related Investments within the transportation sector of which 97% were investment grade. General Account Investments of PFI excluding Closed Block Division division. We believe the details of the composition of our investment portfolio excluding the Closed Block division are most relevant to an understanding of our operations that are pertinent to investors in Prudential Financial, Inc. because substantially all Closed Block division assets support obligations and liabilities relating to the Closed Block policies only. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Closed Block. Fixed Maturity Securities securities classified as assets supporting experienced-rated contractholder liabilities and classified as trading. maturity, as of the date indicated: December 31, 2020 ( in millions) Corporate & government securities: Maturing in 2021 10,141 3.2 % Maturing in 2022 9,391 2.9 Maturing in 2023 11,618 3.6 Maturing in 2024 12,550 3.9 Maturing in 2025 12,836 4.0 Maturing in 2026 13,795 4.3 Maturing in 2027 14,401 4.5 Maturing in 2028 10,584 3.3 Maturing in 2029 12,285 3.9 Maturing in 2030 11,356 3.6 Maturing in 2031 9,066 2.9 Maturing in 2032 and beyond 166,639 52.1 Asset-backed securities 11,584 3.6 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 10,296 3.2 Residential mortgage-backed securities 2,838 1.0 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2020, PFI excluding the Closed Block division had 0.1 billion of airline related corporate fixed maturities In the following sections, we provide details about our investment portfolio, excluding investments held in the Closed Block In the following sections, we provide details about our fixed maturity securities portfolio, which excludes fixed maturity Fixed Maturity Securities by Contractual Maturity Date The following table sets forth the breakdown of the amortized cost of our fixed maturity securities portfolio by contractual Total corporate & government securities 294,662 92.2 Total fixed maturities 319,380 100.0 % Cost % of Total 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 150 425 category attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses, as well as the allowance for credit losses, as of the dates indicated: (1) Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings. (2) As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, based on amortized cost, 86% and 76%, respectively, represent Japanese government bonds held by our Japanese insurance operations with no other individual country representing more than 4% and 11% of the balance, respectively. (3) As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, based on amortized cost, 97% and more than 99% were rated A or higher, respectively. (4) Excluded from the table above are securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding investments held outside the general account, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. (5) Effective January 1, 2020, due to the implementation of ASU 2016-13, an allowance for credit losses is now presented for available-for-sale securities. Prior period amounts have been updated to exclude held-to-maturity securities to conform to current period presentation. interest rates. category attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses, as well as the allowance for credit losses, as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 (in millions) Corporate securities: Total corporate securities 163,367 25,782 539 106 188,504 152,235 15,236 754 166,717 Foreign government(2) 93,521 16,229 236 0 109,514 97,880 20,658 63 118,475 Residential mortgage-backed(3) 2,572 198 0 0 2,770 2,955 154 1 3,108 Asset-backed 11,584 137 67 0 11,654 9,832 123 34 9,921 Commercial mortgage-backed 10,296 883 8 0 11,171 10,211 441 9 10,643 U.S. Government 25,959 8,348 15 0 34,292 24,938 4,511 94 29,355 State & Municipal 10,142 1,991 1 0 12,132 9,593 1,327 7 10,913 Finance 37,577 5,240 70 0 42,747 34,710 2,796 85 37,421 Consumer non- cyclical 28,891 5,085 52 0 33,924 24,941 2,846 112 27,675 Utility 24,235 4,504 60 11 28,668 22,341 2,498 81 24,758 Capital goods 13,711 1,947 49 2 15,607 12,287 1,150 83 13,354 Consumer cyclical 11,196 1,536 52 13 12,667 10,871 994 45 11,820 Foreign agencies 5,323 903 11 0 6,215 5,649 928 10 6,567 Energy 12,257 1,583 118 58 13,664 12,922 1,126 186 13,862 Communications 6,013 1,343 35 22 7,299 5,916 939 34 6,821 Basic industry 5,895 914 17 0 6,792 5,866 497 38 6,325 Transportation 10,067 1,568 40 0 11,595 9,443 833 34 10,242 Technology 3,717 381 14 0 4,084 3,395 278 13 3,660 Industrial other 4,485 778 21 0 5,242 3,894 351 33 4,212 Total fixed maturities, available-for- sale(4)(5) 317,441 53,568 866 106 370,037 307,644 42,450 962 349,132 Industry(1) Table of Contents Fixed Maturity Securities by Industry The following table sets forth the composition of the portion of our fixed maturity, available-for-sale portfolio by industry The increase in net unrealized gains from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2020 was primarily due to a decrease in U.S. The following table sets forth the composition of the portion of our fixed maturity, held-to-maturity portfolio by industry Unrealized Unrealized Allowance for Credit Losses (5) Unrealized Unrealized 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 151 425 (1) Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings. (2) As of both December 31, 2020 and 2019, based on amortized cost, 98% represent Japanese government bonds held by our Japanese insurance operations. (3) As of both December 31, 2020 and 2019, based on amortized cost, all were rated A or higher. (4) Excluded from the table above are securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding investments held outside the general account, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. investments of insurers for statutory reporting purposes and assigns fixed maturity securities to one of six categories called NAIC Designations. In general, NAIC Designations of 1 highest quality, or 2 high quality, include fixed maturities considered investment grade, which include securities rated Baa3 or higher by Moody's Investor Service, Inc. ( Moody s ) or BBB- or higher by Standard & Poor's Rating Services ( S&P ). NAIC Designations of 3 through 6 generally include fixed maturities referred to as below investment grade, which include securities rated Ba1 or lower by Moody s and BB or lower by S&P. The NAIC Designations for commercial mortgage-backed securities and non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, including our asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, are based on security level expected losses as modeled by an independent third- party (engaged by the NAIC) and the statutory carrying value of the security, including any purchase discounts or impairment charges previously recognized. filing process, the fixed maturity portfolio includes certain securities that have not yet been designated by the SVO as of each balance sheet date. Pending receipt of SVO designations, the categorization of these securities by NAIC Designation is based on the expected ratings indicated by internal analysis. insurance operations are regulated locally by the Financial Services Agency ( FSA ), an agency of the Japanese government. The FSA has its own investment quality criteria and risk control standards. Our Japanese insurance companies comply with the FSA s credit quality review and risk monitoring guidelines. The credit quality ratings of the investments of our Japanese insurance companies are based on ratings assigned by nationally recognized credit rating agencies, including Moody s and S&P, or rating equivalents based on ratings assigned by Japanese credit ratings agencies. attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division, as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 (in millions) Corporate securities: Total corporate securities 738 69 0 807 9 732 66 0 798 Foreign government(2) 935 270 0 1,205 0 891 282 0 1,173 Residential mortgage- backed(3) 266 20 0 286 0 310 21 0 331 Finance 651 67 0 718 9 628 64 0 692 Foreign agencies 0 0 0 0 0 21 0 0 21 Basic industry 87 2 0 89 0 83 2 0 85 Total fixed maturities, held- to-maturity(4) 1,939 359 0 2,298 9 1,933 369 0 2,302 Industry(1) Table of Contents Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality The Securities Valuation Office ( SVO ) of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ) evaluates the As a result of time lags between the funding of investments, the finalization of legal documents, and the completion of the SVO Investments of our international insurance companies are not subject to NAIC guidelines. Investments of our Japanese The following table sets forth our fixed maturity, available-for-sale portfolio by NAIC Designation or equivalent rating Unrealized Unrealized Allowance for Credit Unrealized Unrealized 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 152 425 (1) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations. (2) Includes, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, 102 securities with amortized cost of 356 million (fair value, 382 million) and 796 securities with amortized cost of 3,073 million (fair value, 3,130 million), respectively, that have been categorized based on expected NAIC Designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. (3) As of December 31, 2020, includes gross unrealized losses of 184 million on public fixed maturities and 121 million on private fixed maturities considered to be other than high or highest quality and, as of December 31, 2019, includes gross unrealized losses of 188 million on public fixed maturities and 103 million on private fixed maturities considered to be other than high or highest quality. (4) On an amortized cost basis, as of December 31, 2020, includes 253,387 million of public fixed maturities and 45,022 million of private fixed maturities and, as of December 31, 2019, includes 248,179 million of public fixed maturities and 42,974 million of private fixed maturities. (5) On an amortized cost basis, as of December 31, 2020, includes 9,592 million of public fixed maturities and 9,440 million of private fixed maturities and, as of December 31, 2019, includes 9,049 million of public fixed maturities and 7,442 million of private fixed maturities. (6) On an amortized cost basis, as of December 31, 2020, securities considered below investment grade based on low issue composite ratings total 15,747 million, or 5% of the total fixed maturities, and include securities considered high or highest quality by the NAIC based on the rules described above. (7) Effective January 1, 2020, due to the implementation of ASU 2016-13, an allowance for credit losses is now presented for available-for-sale securities. Prior period amounts have been updated to exclude held-to-maturity securities to conform to current period presentation.  attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division, as of the dates indicated: (in millions) Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities(4) 298,409 51,994 561 0 349,842 291,153 41,121 671 331,603 Subtotal Other Securities(5)(6) 19,032 1,574 305 106 20,195 16,491 1,329 291 17,529 Designation(1)(2) Total fixed maturities, available- for-sale(7) 317,441 53,568 866 106 370,037 307,644 42,450 962 349,132 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our fixed maturity, held-to-maturity portfolio by NAIC Designation or equivalent rating 1 229,951 41,311 381 0 270,881 232,039 35,923 287 267,675 2 68,458 10,683 180 0 78,961 59,114 5,198 384 63,928 3 11,913 1,192 95 0 13,010 10,033 854 93 10,794 4 5,119 211 119 23 5,188 4,914 248 98 5,064 5 1,629 123 67 16 1,669 1,280 196 83 1,393 6 371 48 24 67 328 264 31 17 278 Unrealized December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Unrealized Losses(3) Allowance for Credit Losses(7) Unrealized Unrealized Losses(3) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 153 425 (1) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations. (2) As of both December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, there were no gross unrealized losses on public fixed maturities and private fixed maturities considered to be other than high or highest quality. (3) On an amortized cost basis, as of December 31, 2020, includes 1,728 million of public fixed maturities and 211 million of private fixed maturities and, as of December 31, 2019, includes 1,705 million of public fixed maturities and 228 million of private fixed maturities. within our fixed maturity available-for-sale portfolio attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division by credit quality, as of the dates indicated: (1) The table above provides ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2020, including S&P, Moody s, Fitch Ratings Inc. ( Fitch ) and Morningstar, Inc. ( Morningstar ). Low issue composite rating uses ratings from the major credit rating agencies or if these are not available an equivalent internal rating. For securities where the ratings assigned are not equivalent, the second lowest rating is utilized. (2) Includes collateralized loan obligations ( CLOs ), credit-tranched securities collateralized by auto loans, education loans, credit cards and other asset types. (3) As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, based on amortized cost, 98% and 97% were securities with vintages of 2013 or later, respectively. (4) Excludes fixed maturity securities classified as Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities and Fixed maturities, trading as well as securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. (5) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. (in millions) Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities(3) 1,939 359 0 2,298 9 1,933 369 0 2,302 Subtotal Other Securities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Low Issue Composite Rating(1) AAA 11,327 11,323 10,284 11,159 9,585 9,594 10,196 10,627 AA 139 144 1 2 83 86 0 0 A 16 17 2 2 40 41 6 7 BBB 12 13 9 8 19 21 9 9 BB and below 90 157 0 0 105 179 0 0 Designation(1) Total(4)(5) 11,584 11,654 10,296 11,171 9,832 9,921 10,211 10,643 Asset-Backed and Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities Total fixed maturities, held-to- maturity 1,939 359 0 2,298 9 1,933 369 0 2,302 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the amortized cost and fair value of asset-backed and commercial mortgage-backed securities 1 1,839 349 0 2,188 7 1,743 351 0 2,094 2 100 10 0 110 2 190 18 0 208 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Unrealized Cost Fair Value Asset-Backed Securities(2) December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Unrealized Losses(2) December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Commercial Mortgage- Backed Securities(3) Cost Fair Value Allowance for Credit (in millions) Cost Fair Value Asset-Backed Securities(2) Unrealized Commercial Mortgage- Unrealized Losses(2) Backed Securities(3) Cost Fair Value 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 154 425 these investments in CLOs within our fixed maturity available-for-sale portfolio attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division, as of the dates indicated: (1) The table above provides ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2020, including S&P, Moody s, Fitch and Morningstar. Low issue composite rating uses ratings from the major credit rating agencies or if these are not available an equivalent internal rating. For securities where the ratings assigned are not equivalent, the second lowest rating is utilized. (2) There was no allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2020. (3) Excludes fixed maturity securities classified as Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities and Fixed maturities, trading as well as securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. (4) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. Assets Supporting Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities Consolidated Financial Statements. Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans excluding the Closed Block division, as of the dates indicated: (1) As a percentage of recorded investment gross of allowance, more than 99% of these assets were current as of both December 31, 2020 and 2019. (2) Excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage and other loans held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding commercial mortgage and other loans held outside the general account, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. various regional offices in the U.S. and international offices primarily in London and Tokyo. All loans are underwritten consistently to our standards using a proprietary quality rating system that has been developed from our industry experience in real estate and mortgage lending. insurance operations. December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 (in millions) Commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans 55,223 53,928 Uncollateralized loans 655 656 Residential property loans 101 124 Other collateralized loans 120 65 Low Issue Composite Rating(1) Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value AAA 9,554 9,506 7,294 7,271 AA 2 2 0 0 BBB 1 1 0 0 BB and below 1 1 0 0 Total(2)(3)(4) 9,559 9,511 7,294 7,271 Investment Mix Total recorded investment gross of allowance(1) 56,099 54,773 Allowance for credit losses (207) (102) Total net commercial mortgage and other loans(2) 55,892 54,671 Table of Contents Included in Asset-backed securities above are investments in CLOs. The following table sets forth information pertaining to For information regarding the composition of Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, see Note 3 to the The following table sets forth the composition of our commercial mortgage and other loans portfolio attributable to PFI We originate commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans using a dedicated sales and underwriting staff through our Uncollateralized loans primarily represent reverse dual currency loans and corporate loans held by the company s international December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Collateralized Loan Obligations (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 155 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 156 425 claim against the personal assets of the property owner, in addition to the mortgaged property. These loans are also backed by third- party guarantors. geographic location. The following tables set forth the breakdown of the gross carrying values of commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division by geographic region and property type, as of the dates indicated: (1) Regions as defined by the United States Census Bureau. December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 ( in millions) Commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans by region: U.S. Regions(1): Subtotal-U.S. 48,110 87.1 47,940 88.9 Europe 4,605 8.3 3,781 7.0 Asia 979 1.8 886 1.6 Other 1,529 2.8 1,321 2.5 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 ( in millions) Commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans by property type: Industrial 13,819 25.0 % 12,224 22.7 % Retail 5,718 10.4 6,524 12.1 Office 10,719 19.4 11,203 20.8 Apartments Multi-Family 15,316 27.7 15,176 28.1 Agricultural properties 3,273 5.9 2,856 5.3 Hospitality 2,056 3.7 2,066 3.8 Other 4,322 7.9 3,879 7.2 Pacific 19,186 34.7 % 18,061 33.5 % South Atlantic 8,710 15.8 8,943 16.6 Middle Atlantic 6,500 11.8 6,664 12.4 East North Central 3,018 5.5 3,413 6.3 West South Central 5,426 9.8 5,439 10.1 Mountain 2,239 4.1 2,442 4.5 New England 1,664 3.0 1,902 3.5 West North Central 531 0.9 454 0.8 East South Central 836 1.5 622 1.2 Total commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans 55,223 100.0 % 53,928 100.0 % Total commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans 55,223 100.0 % 53,928 100.0 % Table of Contents Residential property loans primarily include Japanese recourse loans. Upon default of these recourse loans, we can make a Other collateralized loans include consumer loans. Composition of Commercial Mortgage and Agricultural Property Loans Our commercial mortgage and agricultural property loan portfolio strategy emphasizes diversification by property type and 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 157 425 agricultural property loans. The loan-to-value ratio compares the amount of the loan to the fair value of the underlying property collateralizing the loan and is commonly expressed as a percentage. A loan-to-value ratio less than 100% indicates an excess of collateral value over the loan amount. Loan-to-value ratios greater than 100% indicate that the loan amount exceeds the collateral value. The debt service coverage ratio compares a property s net operating income to its debt service payments. Debt service coverage ratios less than 1.0 times indicate that property operations do not generate enough income to cover the loan s current debt payments. A debt service coverage ratio greater than 1.0 times indicates an excess of net operating income over the debt service payments. Block division had a weighted-average debt service coverage ratio of 2.46 times and a weighted-average loan-to-value ratio of 58%. As of December 31, 2020, 94% of commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans were fixed rate loans. For those commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans that were originated in 2020, the weighted-average debt service coverage ratio was 2.71 times, and the weighted-average loan-to-value ratio was 65%. mortgage and agricultural property loan portfolio, which includes an internal evaluation of the underlying collateral value. Our periodic review also includes a credit quality re-rating process, whereby we update the internal quality rating originally assigned at underwriting based on the proprietary quality rating system mentioned above. As discussed below, the internal quality rating is a key input in determining our allowance for credit losses. used in the calculation of the loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios. Our commercial mortgage and agricultural property loan portfolio included 2.4 billion and 1.8 billion of such loans as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. All else being equal, these loans are inherently riskier than those collateralized by properties that have already stabilized. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, there were 1 million and 0 million, respectively, of allowances related to these loans. In addition, these unstabilized loans are included in the calculation of our portfolio reserve, as discussed below. to PFI excluding the Closed Block division by loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios, as of the date indicated: excluding the Closed Block division by year of origination, as of the date indicated: December 31, 2020 Debt Service Coverage Ratio Loan-to-Value Ratio (in millions) 0%-59.99% 26,359 742 467 27,568 60%-69.99% 16,692 1,305 233 18,230 70%-79.99% 7,897 799 214 8,910 80% or greater 199 304 12 515 Total commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans 51,147 3,150 926 55,223 Table of Contents Loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios are measures commonly used to assess the quality of commercial mortgage and As of December 31, 2020, our commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans attributable to PFI excluding the Closed The values utilized in calculating these loan-to-value ratios are developed as part of our periodic review of the commercial For loans with collateral under construction, renovation or lease-up, a stabilized value and projected net operating income are The following table sets forth the gross carrying value of our commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans attributable The following table sets forth the breakdown of our commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans attributable to PFI 1.2x 1.0x Commercial Mortgage and Agricultural 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 158 425 of the date indicated: assigned to either of the following watch list categories: borrower is not cooperative or has requested a material modification, or the portfolio manager has directed a change in category or loan is in the process of foreclosure or the borrower is in bankruptcy. remaining life of the assets. The determination of the allowance considers historical credit loss experience, current December 31, 2020 Year of Origination ( in millions) 2020 5,468 9.9 % 2019 10,103 18.3 2018 8,504 15.4 2017 7,119 12.9 2016 6,278 11.4 2015 5,513 9.9 2014 4,405 8.0 2013 & Prior 7,833 14.2 December 31, 2020 Vintage ( in millions) Maturing in 2021 2,604 4.6 % Maturing in 2022 3,822 6.8 Maturing in 2023 3,856 6.9 Maturing in 2024 5,790 10.3 Maturing in 2025 6,881 12.3 Maturing in 2026 6,270 11.2 Maturing in 2027 5,727 10.2 Maturing in 2028 5,280 9.4 Maturing in 2029 4,949 8.8 Maturing in 2030 3,634 6.5 Maturing in 2031 815 1.5 Maturing in 2032 and beyond 6,471 11.5 Total commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans 55,223 100.0 % Total commercial mortgage and other loans 56,099 100.0 % Table of Contents Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans by Contractual Maturity Date The following table sets forth the breakdown of our commercial mortgage and other loans portfolio by contractual maturity, as The commercial mortgage and other loans portfolio is monitored on an ongoing basis. If certain criteria are met, loans are (1) Closely Monitored, which includes a variety of considerations, such as when loan metrics fall below acceptable levels, the (2) Not in Good Standing, which includes loans in default or with a high probability of loss of principal, such as when the Our workout and special servicing professionals manage the loans on the watch list. The current expected credit loss ( CECL ) allowance represents the Company s best estimate of expected credit losses over the Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Quality Carrying Value % of Total 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 159 425 conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. The allowance is calculated separately for commercial mortgage loans, agricultural mortgage loans, uncollateralized loans, other collateralized loans and residential property loans. lives of the loans adjusted for prepayment considerations, current and historical interest rate assumptions and other factors influencing the Company s view of the current stage of the economic cycle and future economic conditions. Subjective considerations include a review of whether historical loss experience is representative of current market conditions and the Company s view of the credit cycle. Model assumptions and factors are reviewed and updated as appropriate. are removed from the pools and are evaluated individually for an allowance. The allowance is determined based on the outstanding loan balance less the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s effective interest rate or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. probability of default and loss given default assumptions by sector, credit quality and average lives of the loans. as of the dates indicated: cumulative effect of adopting ASU 2016-13. Equity Securities Preferred Stock of publicly-traded companies, as well as mutual fund shares. The following table sets forth the composition of our equity securities portfolio and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses, as of the dates indicated: (1) Amounts presented exclude investments in private equity and hedge funds and other investments which are reported in Other invested assets. at period end, recorded within Other income (loss), was 83 million and 586 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 (in millions) Mutual funds 1,481 410 5 1,886 817 258 1 1,074 Other Common Stocks 2,201 1,013 62 3,152 2,429 1,091 57 3,463 Non-redeemable Preferred Stocks 54 22 6 70 51 3 5 49 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 (in millions) Allowance, beginning of year 102 106 Allowance, end of period 207 102 Total equity securities, at fair value(1) 3,736 1,445 73 5,108 3,297 1,352 63 4,586 Cumulative effect of adoption of ASU 2016-13 101 0 Addition to (release of) allowance for credit losses 1 (4) Recoveries of amounts previously written-down 0 N A Table of Contents For commercial mortgage and agricultural mortgage loans, the allowance is calculated using an internally developed CECL Key inputs to the CECL model include unpaid principal balances, internal credit ratings, annual expected loss factors, average When individual loans no longer have the credit risk characteristics of the commercial or agricultural mortgage loan pools, they The CECL allowance for other collateralized and uncollateralized loans carried at amortized cost is determined based on The following table sets forth the change in allowance for credit losses for our commercial mortgage and other loans portfolio, The allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2020 increased compared to December 31, 2019, primarily due to the The equity securities attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division consist principally of investments in Common and The net change in unrealized gains (losses) from equity securities attributable to PFI excluding Closed Block division still held Unrealized Unrealized Value Cost Unrealized Unrealized 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 160 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 161 425 Other Invested Assets division, as of the dates indicated: (1) As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, real estate held through direct ownership had mortgage debt of 409 million and 537 million, respectively. (2) Primarily includes leveraged leases and member and activity stock held in the Federal Home Loan Banks of New York and Boston. For additional information regarding our holdings in the Federal Home Loan Banks of New York and Boston, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations primarily represents investments associated with our investment management operations and derivative operations. Our derivative operations act on behalf of affiliates primarily to manage interest rate, foreign currency, credit and equity exposures. Assets within our investment management operations that are managed for third-parties and those assets classified as Separate account assets on our balance sheet are not included. (1) As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, balances include investments in CLOs with fair value of 496 million and 438 million, respectively. (2) Book value is generally based on unpaid principal balance, net of any allowance for credit losses, or at fair value, when the fair value option has been elected. December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Real estate held through direct ownership(1) 1,176 1,350 Derivative instruments 199 73 Other(2) 731 620 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 (in millions) Fixed maturities: Fixed maturities, trading, at fair value(1) 212 1,161 Equity securities, at fair value 682 691 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value(2) 1,112 259 Other invested assets(1) 3,799 3,062 Short-term investments 36 17 Equity method: Fair value: Total LPs LLCs 8,610 7,167 Private equity 3,547 2,740 Hedge funds 1,770 1,362 Real estate-related 1,078 792 Subtotal equity method 6,395 4,894 Private equity 1,063 990 Hedge funds 1,111 1,233 Real estate-related 41 50 Subtotal fair value 2,215 2,273 Total other invested assets 10,716 9,210 Public, available-for-sale, at fair value(1) 644 587 Private, available-for-sale, at fair value 0 1 Total investments 6,485 5,778 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the composition of Other invested assets attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations presented below includes investments held outside the general account and (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 162 425 ( VIEs ) for which the Company is the investment manager. The assets of the consolidated VIEs are generally offset by liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected. For further information on these consolidated VIEs, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. investment management and servicing for our general account, institutional clients, the Federal Housing Administration and government-sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Derivatives and other hedging instruments related to our commercial mortgage operations are primarily included in Other invested assets. credit, and equity exposures. make these strategic investments in real estate, as well as fixed income, public equity and real estate securities, including controlling interests. Certain of these investments are made primarily for purposes of co-investment in our managed funds and structured products. Other strategic investments are made with the intention to sell or syndicate to investors, including our general account, or for placement in funds and structured products that we offer and manage (seed investments). As part of our investment management operations, we also make loans to our managed funds that are secured by equity commitments from investors or assets of the funds. Other invested assets also includes certain assets in consolidated investment funds where the Company is deemed to exercise control over the funds. Overview refers to the long-term financial resources available to support the operations of our businesses, fund business growth, and provide a cushion to withstand adverse circumstances. Our ability to generate and maintain sufficient liquidity and capital depends on the profitability of our businesses, general economic conditions and our access to the capital markets and the alternate sources of liquidity and capital described herein. The principles of our liquidity and capital management framework are described in an enterprise wide policy that is reviewed and approved by our Board. regulations currently include requirements (many of which are the subject of ongoing rule-making) relating to capital and liquidity management. For information on these regulatory initiatives and their potential impact on us, see Business Regulation and Risk Factors. COVID-19 and Related Market Disruptions and disruptions in the global economy and financial markets. In 2020 we took the following significant management actions that impacted our liquidity and capital position, including in response to this macro environment and the global pandemic: We executed transactions to reduce our ongoing financing costs in August by issuing 1.3 billion of junior subordinated notes at interest rates of 3.70% and 4.125% and with maturities ranging from 2050 to 2060 and using the proceeds to redeem in September our 710 million 5.70% junior subordinated notes due in 2053 and our 575 million 5.75% junior subordinated notes due in 2052 Other invested assets primarily include assets of our derivative operations used to manage interest rate, foreign currency, Table of Contents Fixed Maturities, Trading Fixed maturities, trading, at fair value are primarily related to assets associated with consolidated variable interest entities Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Our investment management operations include our commercial mortgage operations, which provide mortgage origination, The mortgage loans of our commercial mortgage operations are included in Commercial mortgage and other loans. Other Invested Assets Furthermore, other invested assets include strategic investments made as part of our investment management operations. We Liquidity refers to the ability to generate sufficient cash resources to meet the payment obligations of the Company. Capital Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by domestic and international regulators. These Beginning in the first quarter of 2020, broad market concerns over the impact of COVID-19 have led to significant volatility Liquidity and Capital Resources 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 163 425 sources of liquidity, such as committed credit facilities, membership in the Federal Home Loan Banks, commercial paper programs, and agreements that allow us to issue senior debt to trust entities. As of December 31, 2020, Prudential Financial had highly liquid assets of 5.6 billion, excluding the net borrowings from an intercompany liquidity account. Nevertheless, adverse developments related to COVID-19 and associated market dislocations could strain our existing liquidity. For example, capital or liquidity needs at our subsidiaries resulting from market conditions or business operations could require us to use our highly liquid assets or tap alternative sources of liquidity, and our access to traditional funding sources, such as commercial paper borrowings, could become limited due to market conditions. Any need to increase the use of our alternative sources of liquidity may result in increased financial leverage on our balance sheet and negatively impact our credit and financial strength ratings or ratings outlooks. ratings targets. However, market conditions could negatively impact the statutory capital of our insurance companies and constrain our overall capital flexibility. For example, adverse market conditions may lead to increased defaults and or further deterioration in the credit quality or fair values of our investment portfolio, which would negatively impact the statutory capital of our insurance subsidiaries. Adverse market conditions could require us to take additional management actions for our insurance subsidiaries to maintain capital consistent with their ratings objectives, which may include redeploying financial resources from internal sources or using available external sources of capital or seeking additional sources. organization. Management monitors the liquidity of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries on a daily basis and projects borrowing and capital needs over a multi-year time horizon. We use a Risk Appetite Framework ( RAF ) to ensure that all risks taken across the Company align with our capacity and willingness to take those risks. The RAF provides a dynamic assessment of capital and liquidity stress impacts, including scenarios similar to, and more severe than, those occurring due to COVID-19, and is intended to ensure that sufficient resources are available to absorb those impacts. We believe that our capital and liquidity resources are sufficient to satisfy the capital and liquidity requirements of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries. measures. Due to our diverse mix of businesses and applicable regulatory requirements, we apply certain refinements to the framework that are designed to more appropriately reflect risks associated with our businesses on a consistent basis across the Company. In May, we augmented our alternative sources of liquidity by entering into a facility agreement with a Delaware trust, pursuant to which Prudential Financial may issue and sell to the trust at any time over a ten-year period up to 1.5 billion of 2.850% senior notes due May 15, 2030 and receive in exchange a corresponding amount of U.S. Treasury securities. The facility agreement is similar to our existing put option agreement that allows us to issue up to 1.5 billion of senior notes to a trust, which we established in 2013 and expires in 2023 We suspended Common Stock repurchases under our existing repurchase authorization beginning April 1, 2020, after repurchasing 500 million of shares of Prudential Financial s Common Stock in the first quarter of 2020. On February 4, 2021, the Board authorized the Company to repurchase, at management s discretion, up to 1.5 billion of its outstanding Common Stock during the period from January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021 In March, we issued 1.5 billion of senior notes, with maturities ranging from 2026 to 2040, for general corporate purposes, including pre-funding part of our senior notes maturing through 2021. Of these senior notes, 500 million were issued in the form of green bonds, where proceeds are allocated to existing or future investments in assets, businesses or projects that provide environmental benefits In March, Prudential Legacy Insurance Company of New Jersey issued 800 million of surplus notes under its 4 billion reserve financing facility to enhance the statutory surplus of the Closed Block. Following a partial redemption in December 2020, the facility had 400 million of surplus notes outstanding as of December 31, 2020. Established in 2015, this facility is intended to alleviate any temporary impact to the Closed Block s surplus due to the timing difference between the mark to market on assets and the decision on the level of the policyholder dividend We executed additional capital hedges that protect the capital position of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries against additional declines in the equity markets and We accelerated our product diversification strategy and repriced certain products, which are expected to support the capital position of our insurance subsidiaries over time. Table of Contents Liquidity. The Company continues to operate with significant liquid resources and maintains access to substantial alternative Capital. As of December 31, 2020, all of our significant insurance subsidiaries maintained capital levels consistent with their Liquidity and Capital Risk Management. Effective and prudent liquidity and capital management is a priority across the Our capital management framework is primarily based on statutory Risk-Based Capital ( RBC ) and solvency margin 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 164 425 debt rating targets for Prudential Financial are A for S&P, Moody s, and Fitch, and a for A.M. Best Company ( A.M. Best ). Our financial strength rating targets for our life insurance companies are AA Aa AA for S&P, Moody s and Fitch, respectively, and A for A.M. Best. Some entities may currently be rated below these targets, and not all life insurance companies are rated by each of these rating agencies. See Ratings below for a description of the potential impacts of ratings downgrades. Capital Governance and Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chair to approve certain capital actions on behalf of the Company and to further delegate authority with respect to capital actions to appropriate officers, up to specified limits. Any capital commitment that exceeds the authority granted to senior management must be separately authorized by the Board. amounts to promote the efficient use of capital, consistent with our strategic objectives, ratings aspirations and other goals and targets. This management committee provides a multi-disciplinary due diligence review of specific initiatives or transactions requiring the use of capital, including mergers and acquisitions. The CFC also reviews our annual capital plan (and updates to this plan), as well as our capital, liquidity and financial position, borrowing plans, and related matters prior to the discussion of these items with the Board. Capitalization subordinated debt. As shown in the table below, as of December 31, 2020, the Company had 50.2 billion in capital, all of which was available to support the aggregate capital requirements of its businesses and its Corporate and Other operations. Based on our assessment of these businesses and operations, we believe this level of capital is consistent with our ratings targets. (1) Amounts attributable to Prudential Financial, excluding AOCI. Insurance Regulatory Capital insurance subsidiaries to regulatory capital levels consistent with our AA ratings targets. We utilize the RBC ratio as a primary measure of the capital adequacy of our domestic insurance subsidiaries and the solvency margin ratio as a primary measure of the capital adequacy of our Japanese insurance subsidiaries. considers, among other things, risks related to the type and quality of the invested assets, insurance-related risks associated with an insurer s products and liabilities, interest rate risks and general business risks. RBC ratio calculations are intended to assist insurance regulators in measuring an insurer s solvency and ability to pay future claims. The reporting of RBC measures is not intended for the purpose of ranking any insurance company or for use in connection with any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but is available to the public. most recent statutory fiscal year-end for these subsidiaries for which RBC information has been filed: December 31, (in millions) Equity(1) 36,687 39,076 Junior subordinated debt (including hybrid securities) 7,615 7,575 Other capital debt 5,856 7,001 PICA(1) 411 % Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation ( PALAC ) 484 % Composite Major U.S. Insurance Subsidiaries(2) 426 % Total capital 50,158 53,652 Table of Contents We believe Prudential Financial s capitalization and financial profile are consistent with its ratings targets. Our long-term senior Our capital management framework is ultimately reviewed and approved by our Board. The Board has authorized our Chairman In addition, our Capital and Finance Committee ( CFC ) reviews the use and allocation of capital above certain threshold The primary components of the Company s capitalization consist of equity and outstanding capital debt, including junior We manage PICA, The Prudential Life Insurance Company, Ltd. ( Prudential of Japan ), Gibraltar Life, and other significant RBC is calculated based on statutory financial statements and risk formulas consistent with the practices of the NAIC. RBC The table below presents the RBC ratios of our most significant domestic insurance subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019, the 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 165 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 166 425 (1) Includes Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company ( PRIAC ), Pruco Life Insurance Company ( Pruco Life ), Pruco Life Insurance Company of New Jersey ( PLNJ ), which is a subsidiary of Pruco Life, and Prudential Legacy Insurance Company of New Jersey ( PLIC ). (2) Includes PICA and its subsidiaries, as noted above, and PALAC. Composite RBC is not reported to regulators and is based on the summation of total adjusted capital and risk charges for the included companies as determined under statutory accounting and RBC guidance to calculate a composite numerator and denominator, respectively, for purposes of calculating the composite ratio. in which we operate generally establish some form of minimum solvency margin requirements for insurance companies based on local statutory accounting practices. These solvency margins are a primary measure of the capital adequacy of our international insurance operations. Maintenance of our solvency margins at certain levels is also important to our competitive positioning, as in certain jurisdictions, such as Japan, these solvency margins are required to be disclosed to the public and therefore impact the public perception of an insurer s financial strength. September 30, 2020, the most recent date for which this information is available: (1) Includes Prudential Trust Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of Prudential of Japan. (2) Includes Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Co., Ltd. ( PGFL ), a subsidiary of Gibraltar Life. regulatory required minimums) as of December 31, 2020. minimum level required by applicable insurance regulations. However, as discussed above, market conditions could negatively impact the statutory capital of our insurance companies and constrain our overall capital flexibility. Our regulatory capital levels also may be affected in the future by changes to the applicable regulations, proposals for which are currently under consideration by both domestic and international insurance regulators. For additional information on the calculation of RBC and solvency margin ratios, as well as regulatory minimums, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Captive Reinsurance Companies the aggregation and transfer of risks. Our captive reinsurance companies assume business from affiliates only. To support the risks they assume, our captives are capitalized to a level we believe is consistent with the AA financial strength rating targets of our insurance subsidiaries. All of our captives are subject to internal policies governing their activities. In the normal course of business, we contribute capital to the captives to support business growth and other needs. Prudential Financial has also entered into support agreements with several of the captives in connection with financing arrangements. For a description of captive reinsurance company financing activities, see below under Financing Activities Subsidiary Borrowings Term and Universal Life Reserve Financing. Shareholder Distributions outstanding Common Stock during the period from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020. We suspended Common Stock repurchases under this authorization beginning April 1, 2020, after purchasing 500 million of shares of Prudential Financial s Common Stock in the first quarter of 2020. On February 4, 2021, the Board authorized the Company to repurchase, at management s discretion, up to 1.5 billion of its outstanding Common Stock during the period from January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021. Prudential of Japan consolidated(1) 907 % Gibraltar Life consolidated(2) 956 % Table of Contents Although not yet filed, we expect our RBC ratios as of December 31, 2020 to be above our AA financial strength target Similar to the RBC ratios that are employed by U.S. insurance regulators, regulatory authorities in the international jurisdictions The table below presents the solvency margin ratios of our most significant international insurance subsidiaries as of Although not yet filed, we expect the solvency margin ratio for each of these subsidiaries to be greater than 700% (3.5 times the All of our domestic and significant international insurance subsidiaries have capital levels that substantially exceed the We use captive reinsurance companies to more effectively manage our reserves and capital on an economic basis and to enable Share Repurchase Program and Shareholder Dividends In December 2019, the Board authorized the Company to repurchase, at management s discretion, up to 2.0 billion of its 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 167 425 considerations, including any increased capital needs of our businesses due to, among other things, credit migration and losses in our investment portfolio, changes in regulatory capital requirements and opportunities for growth and acquisitions. Repurchases may be executed in the open market, through derivative, accelerated repurchase and other negotiated transactions and through plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1(c) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Prudential Financial s Common Stock, for each of the quarterly periods in 2020 and for the prior four years: Common Stock, payable on March 11, 2021 to shareholders of record as of February 16, 2021. subsidiaries is limited due in part to regulatory restrictions. Liquidity needs are determined through daily and quarterly cash flow forecasting at the holding company and within our operating subsidiaries. We seek to maintain a minimum balance of highly liquid assets to ensure that adequate liquidity is available at Prudential Financial to cover fixed expenses in the event that we experience reduced cash flows from our operating subsidiaries at a time when access to capital markets is also not available. funding debt in advance of maturity. During 2020, we issued 1.5 billion of senior notes, of which 1 billion were issued for general corporate purposes, including pre-funding in part our senior notes maturing through 2021. We mitigate the refinancing risk associated with our debt that is used to fund operating needs by matching the term of debt with the assets financed. To ensure adequate liquidity in stress scenarios, stress testing is performed for our major operating subsidiaries. We seek to further mitigate liquidity risk by maintaining our access to alternative sources of liquidity, as discussed below. Liquidity of Prudential Financial and loans from subsidiaries, and proceeds from debt issuances and certain stock-based compensation activity. These sources of funds may be supplemented by Prudential Financial s access to the capital markets as well as the Alternative Sources of Liquidity described below. making acquisitions, paying declared shareholder dividends and repurchasing outstanding shares of Common Stock executed under authority from the Board. increase of 1,375 million from December 31, 2019. Highly liquid assets predominantly include cash, short-term investments, U.S. Treasury securities, obligations of other U.S. government authorities and agencies, and or foreign government bonds. We maintain an intercompany liquidity account that is designed to optimize the use of cash by facilitating the lending and Dividend Amount Shares Repurchased Quarterly period ended: Per Share Aggregate Shares Total Cost (in millions, except per share data) December 31, 2020 1.10 442 0.0 0 September 30, 2020 1.10 441 0.0 0 June 30, 2020 1.10 441 0.0 0 March 31, 2020 1.10 445 6.7 500 Dividend Amount Shares Repurchased Year ended: Per Share Aggregate Shares Total Cost (in millions, except per share data) December 31, 2020 4.40 1,769 6.7 500 December 31, 2019 4.00 1,644 27.2 2,500 December 31, 2018 3.60 1,525 14.9 1,500 December 31, 2017 3.00 1,300 11.5 1,250 December 31, 2016 2.80 1,245 25.1 2,000 Table of Contents The following table sets forth information about declarations of Common Stock dividends, as well as repurchases of shares of In addition, on February 4, 2021, Prudential Financial s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of 1.15 per share of Liquidity management and stress testing are performed on a legal entity basis as the ability to transfer funds between We seek to mitigate the risk of having limited or no access to financing due to stressed market conditions by generally pre- The principal sources of funds available to Prudential Financial, the parent holding company, are dividends, returns of capital The primary uses of funds at Prudential Financial include servicing debt, making capital contributions and loans to subsidiaries, As of December 31, 2020, Prudential Financial had highly liquid assets with a carrying value totaling 6,479 million, an In general, the timing and amount of share repurchases are determined by management based on market conditions and other 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 168 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 169 425 borrowing of funds between Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries on a daily basis. Excluding the net borrowings from this intercompany liquidity account, Prudential Financial had highly liquid assets of 5,560 million as of December 31, 2020, an increase of 1,499 million from December 31, 2019. from our intercompany liquidity account, for the periods indicated: (1) Includes 470 million in the form of in-kind dividends in 2020. See Item 15 Schedule II Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant Dividends and Returns of Capital for dividends and returns of capital by subsidiary. Dividends and Returns of Capital from Subsidiaries dividends of 500 million from PICA and 120 million from Prudential Annuities Holding Company. international insurance subsidiaries, which includes 1,627 million net proceeds from the sale of POK and 470 million of in-kind dividends in the form of the extinguishment of debt held by international insurance subsidiaries. In addition to paying Common Stock dividends, our international insurance operations may return capital to Prudential Financial through or facilitated by other means, such as the repayment of preferred stock obligations held by Prudential Financial or other affiliates, affiliated lending, affiliated derivatives and reinsurance with U.S.- and Bermuda-based affiliates. Sources and Uses of Holding Company Highly Liquid Assets Year Ended December 31, (in millions) Highly Liquid Assets, beginning of period 4,061 5,548 Highly Liquid Assets, end of period 5,560 4,061 (2) Represents the investment and deployment of capital to and from our businesses in the form of loans. 2020 includes net lending of 1,017 million from international insurance subsidiaries including 470 million received by PFI in the form of the extinguishment of debt held by international subsidiaries (offset by the in-kind dividends referred to in footnote 1 above). 2019 includes net receipts of 818 million from international subsidiaries. (3) 2020 primarily includes capital contributions of 217 million to PGIM, and 170 million to international insurance subsidiaries. 2019 includes capital contributions of 200 million to PICA, 180 million to international insurance subsidiaries, 73 million to PGIM, and 68 million to Assurance IQ. (4) Includes cash payments made on dividends declared in prior periods. (5) 2020 represents the net proceeds from the sale of POK that were distributed to PFI. 2019 represents costs related to the acquisition of Assurance IQ, including 1,758 million of purchase consideration and 73 million of compensation expense, which is recognized over the requisite service periods. (6) Represents loans to and from affiliated subsidiaries to support business operating needs. (7) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. Dividends and or returns of capital from subsidiaries(1) 3,698 3,282 Affiliated loans (borrowings) - (capital activities)(2) (1,017) 818 Capital contributions to subsidiaries(3) (386) (521) Total Business Capital Activity 2,295 3,579 Share repurchases (500) (2,500) Common stock dividends(4) (1,766) (1,641) Acquisition Disposition Activity(5) 1,627 (1,831) Total Share Repurchases, Dividends and Acquisition Disposition Activity (639) (5,972) Proceeds from the issuance of debt 2,768 2,465 Repayments of debt (2,467) (1,114) Total Debt Activity 301 1,351 Proceeds from stock-based compensation and exercise of stock options 293 418 Interest income from subsidiaries on intercompany agreements, net of interest paid 223 199 Swap terminations(7) (190) (92) Net income tax receipts & payments 482 103 Interest paid on external debt (988) (952) Affiliated (borrowings) loans - (operating activities)(6) (283) (115) Other, net(7) 5 (6) Total Other Activity (458) (445) Net increase (decrease) in highly liquid assets 1,499 (1,487) Table of Contents The following table sets forth Prudential Financial s principal sources and uses of highly liquid assets, excluding net borrowings Domestic insurance subsidiaries. During 2020, Prudential Financial received returns of capital of 760 million from PALAC, International insurance subsidiaries. During 2020, Prudential Financial received dividends of 3,531 million from its 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 170 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 171 425 subsidiaries and dividends of 14 million from other subsidiaries. payment of dividends and other transfers of funds to Prudential Financial and other affiliates under applicable insurance law and regulation. Further, as discussed above, recent market conditions could negatively impact capital positions of our insurance companies, which could further restrict their ability to pay dividends. More generally, the payment of dividends by any of our subsidiaries is subject to declaration by their Board of Directors and can be affected by market conditions and other factors. specified under New Jersey insurance law, subject to prior notification to the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance ( NJDOBI ). Any distributions above this amount in any twelve-month period are considered to be extraordinary dividends, and the approval of the NJDOBI is required prior to payment. The laws regulating dividends of the states where our other domestic insurance companies are domiciled are similar, but not identical, to New Jersey s. international jurisdictions in which they operate. Our most significant international insurance subsidiaries, Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life, are permitted to pay common stock dividends based on calculations specified by Japanese insurance law, subject to prior notification to the FSA. Dividends in excess of these amounts and other forms of capital distribution require the prior approval of the FSA. The regulatory fiscal year end for both Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life is March 31, 2021, after which time the common stock dividend amount permitted to be paid without prior approval from the FSA can be determined. from a regulatory standpoint. Liquidity of Insurance Subsidiaries all of our obligations. Liquidity within each of our insurance subsidiaries is provided by a variety of sources, including portfolios of liquid assets. The investment portfolios of our subsidiaries are integral to the overall liquidity of our insurance operations. We segment our investment portfolios and employ an asset liability management approach specific to the requirements of each of our product lines. This enhances the discipline applied in managing the liquidity, as well as the interest rate and credit risk profiles, of each portfolio in a manner consistent with the unique characteristics of the product liabilities. portfolio and the liabilities that they support. We consider attributes of the various categories of liquid assets (for example, type of asset and credit quality) in calculating internal liquidity measures to evaluate our insurance operations liquidity under various stress scenarios, including company-specific and market-wide events. We continue to believe that cash generated by ongoing operations and the liquidity profile of our assets provide sufficient liquidity under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios for each of our insurance subsidiaries. maturities, sales of investments, and sales associated with our insurance and annuity operations, as well as internal and external borrowings. The principal uses of liquidity include benefits, claims and dividends paid to policyholders, and payments to policyholders and contractholders in connection with surrenders, withdrawals and net policy loan activity. Other uses of liquidity may include commissions, general and administrative expenses, purchases of investments, the payment of dividends to the parent holding company, hedging and reinsurance activity and payments in connection with financing activities. liquidity requirements. The continued adequacy of this liquidity will depend upon factors such as future securities market conditions, changes in interest rate levels, policyholder perceptions of our financial strength, policyholder behavior, catastrophic events and the relative safety and attractiveness of competing products, each of which could lead to reduced cash inflows or increased cash outflows. Our insurance operations cash flows from investment activities result from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities and sales of invested assets and investment income, net of amounts reinvested. The primary liquidity risks with respect to these cash flows are the risk of default by debtors or bond insurers, our counterparties Table of Contents Other subsidiaries. During 2020, Prudential Financial received dividends and returns of capital of 399 million from PGIM Restriction on dividends and returns of capital from subsidiaries. Our insurance companies are subject to limitations on the With respect to our domestic insurance subsidiaries, PICA is permitted to pay ordinary dividends based on calculations Capital redeployment from our international insurance subsidiaries is subject to local regulatory requirements in the The ability of our PGIM subsidiaries and the majority of our other operating subsidiaries to pay dividends is largely unrestricted See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on specific dividend restrictions. We manage the liquidity of our insurance operations to ensure stable, reliable and cost-effective sources of cash flows to meet Liquidity is measured against internally-developed benchmarks that take into account the characteristics of both the asset In each of our major insurance subsidiaries, we believe that the cash flows from operations are adequate to satisfy current The principal sources of liquidity for our insurance subsidiaries are premiums, investment and fee income, investment 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 172 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 173 425 willingness to extend repurchase and or securities lending arrangements, commitments to invest and market volatility. We closely manage these risks through our credit risk management process and regular monitoring of our liquidity position. policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions when selecting assets to support these contractual obligations. We use surrender charges and other contract provisions to mitigate the extent, timing and profitability impact of withdrawals of funds by customers. The following table sets forth the liabilities for future policy benefits and policyholders account balances of certain of our domestic insurance subsidiaries as of the dates indicated: (1) Includes the impact of intercompany eliminations. selecting assets to support these contractual obligations, we consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions. As a result, assets will include both liquid assets, as discussed below, and other assets that we believe adequately support our liabilities. individual life insurance policy reserves. Individual life insurance policies may impose surrender charges and policyholders may be subject to a new underwriting process in order to obtain a new insurance policy. PICA s reserves for group annuity contracts primarily relate to pension risk transfer contracts, which are generally not subject to early withdrawal. For our individual annuity contracts, to encourage persistency, most of our variable and fixed annuities have surrender or withdrawal charges for a specified number of years. In addition, certain fixed annuities impose a market value adjustment if the invested amount is not held to maturity. The living benefit features of our variable annuities also encourage persistency because the potential value of the living benefit is fully realized only if the contract persists. contracts are subject to discretionary withdrawal, withdrawals are typically at the market value of the underlying assets. Risk is further reduced by the high persistency of clients driven in part by our competitive position in our target markets and contractual provisions such as deferred payouts. assumptions in asset liability management, and the associated cash outflows did not have a material adverse impact on our overall liquidity. operations, we consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions in selecting assets to support these contractual obligations. The following table sets forth the liabilities for future policy benefits and policyholders account balances of certain of our international insurance subsidiaries as of the dates indicated:  December 31, (in billions) PICA 227.2 216.7 PLIC 50.9 51.8 Pruco Life 56.7 48.1 PRIAC 29.0 26.1 PALAC 27.7 19.1 Other(1) (102.9) (96.0) December 31, (in billions) Prudential of Japan(1) 63.3 56.4 Gibraltar Life(2) 114.6 108.0 All other international insurance subsidiaries(3) 1.5 15.4 (2) Amounts are reflected gross of affiliated reinsurance recoverables. Total future policy benefits and policyholders account balances(2) 288.6 265.8 Total future policy benefits and policyholders account balances(4) 179.4 179.8 Table of Contents Domestic insurance operations. In managing the liquidity of our domestic insurance operations, we consider the risk of The liabilities presented above are primarily supported by invested assets in our general account. As noted above, when For PICA and other subsidiaries, the liabilities presented above primarily include annuity reserves and deposit liabilities and For PRIAC, the liabilities presented above primarily include reserves for stable value contracts. Although many of these Gross account withdrawals for our domestic insurance operations products in 2020 were generally consistent with our International insurance operations. As with our domestic operations, in managing the liquidity of our international insurance 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 174 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 175 425 support these contractual obligations, we consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions. As a result, assets will include both liquid assets, as discussed below, and other assets that we believe adequately support our liabilities. significant withdrawal risk because policyholders may incur surrender charges and must undergo a new underwriting process to obtain a new insurance policy. should the yen depreciate in relation to these currencies or if interest rates in Australia and the U.S. decline relative to Japan. A significant portion of the liabilities associated with these contracts include a market value adjustment feature, which mitigates the profitability impact from surrenders. As of December 31, 2020, products with a market value adjustment feature represented 26.1 billion of our Japan operations insurance-related liabilities, which included 22.8 billion attributable to non-yen denominated fixed annuities. designated as held-to-maturity and public equity securities. In addition to access to substantial investment portfolios, our insurance companies liquidity is managed through access to a variety of instruments available for funding and or managing cash flow mismatches, including from time to time those arising from claim levels in excess of projections. Our ability to utilize assets and liquidity between our subsidiaries is limited by regulatory and other constraints. We believe that ongoing operations and the liquidity profile of our assets provide sufficient liquidity under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios for each of our insurance subsidiaries. dates indicated: (1) Represents a legal entity view and as such includes both domestic and international sleeves. December 31, 2020 (in billions) Cash and short-term investments 6.4 0.4 0.7 1.4 0.5 9.4 11.9 Fixed maturity investments(2): Subtotal 147.6 40.9 22.5 19.7 7.1 237.8 213.5 Public equity securities, at fair value 0.4 2.3 0.1 0.3 0.1 3.2 2.5 Total 154.4 43.6 23.3 21.4 7.7 250.4 227.9 (1) As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, 18.3 billion and 15.7 billion, respectively, of the insurance-related liabilities for Prudential of Japan are associated with U.S. dollar-denominated products that are coinsured to our domestic insurance operations and supported by U.S. dollar- denominated assets. As of December 31, 2020, 1.4 billion of the insurance-related liabilities for Prudential of Japan are primarily associated with yen- and U.S. dollar-denominated products that are coinsured to Gibraltar Re, our Bermuda-based reinsurance affiliate, and primarily supported by yen- and U.S. dollar-denominated assets. As of December 31, 2019, 0.7 billion of the insurance-related liabilities for Prudential of Japan are primarily associated with yen-denominated products that are coinsured to Gibraltar Re and primarily supported by yen- denominated assets. (2) Includes PGFL. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, 7.1 billion and 5.5 billion, respectively, of the insurance-related liabilities for PGFL are associated with U.S. dollar-denominated products that are coinsured to our domestic insurance operations and supported by U.S. dollar- denominated assets. As of December 31, 2020, 4.5 billion of the insurance-related liabilities for Gibraltar Life are primarily associated with yen- and U.S. dollar-denominated products that are coinsured to Gibraltar Re and primarily supported by yen- and U.S. dollar-denominated assets. As of December 31, 2019, 2.0 billion of the insurance-related liabilities for Gibraltar Life are primarily associated with yen- denominated products that are coinsured to Gibraltar Re and primarily supported by yen-denominated assets. (3) Represents our international insurance operations, excluding Japan. (4) Amounts are reflected gross of affiliated reinsurance recoverables. (2) Excludes fixed maturities designated as held-to-maturity. Credit quality is based on NAIC or equivalent rating. High or highest quality 138.2 37.4 21.2 18.9 6.7 222.4 201.3 Other than high or highest quality 9.4 3.5 1.3 0.8 0.4 15.4 12.2 Table of Contents The liabilities presented above are primarily supported by invested assets in our general account. When selecting assets to We believe most of the longer-term recurring pay individual life insurance policies sold by our Japanese operations do not have Gibraltar Life sells fixed annuities, denominated in U.S. and Australian dollars, that may be subject to increased surrenders Liquid Assets Liquid assets include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, U.S. Treasury securities, fixed maturities that are not The following table sets forth the fair value of certain of our domestic insurance operations portfolio of liquid assets, as of the Insurance(1) PLIC PRIAC PALAC Pruco Life Total Prudential December 31, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 176 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 177 425 indicated: (1) Includes PGFL. withdrawals and surrenders, varying from our projections does not constitute a significant liquidity risk. Our asset liability management process takes into account the expected maturity of investments and expected claim payments as well as the specific nature and risk profile of the liabilities. To the extent we need to pay claims in excess of projections, we may borrow temporarily or sell investments sooner than anticipated to pay these claims, which may result in increased borrowing costs or realized investment gains or losses, including from changes in interest rates or credit spreads. The payment of claims and sale of investments earlier than anticipated would have an impact on the reported level of cash flow from operating, investing, and financing activities, in our financial statements. Historically, there has been no significant variation between the expected maturities of our investments and the payment of claims. Liquidity associated with other activities enter into a range of exchange-traded, cleared and other OTC equity and interest rate derivatives in order to hedge certain capital market risks related to more severe market conditions. For a full discussion of our Individual Annuities risk management strategy, see Results of Operations by Segment U.S. Businesses U.S. Individual Solutions Division Individual Annuities. This portion of our Individual Annuities ALM strategy and capital hedge program requires access to liquidity to meet payment obligations relating to these derivatives, such as payments for periodic settlements, purchases, maturities and terminations. These liquidity needs can vary materially due to, among other items, changes in interest rates, equity markets, mortality and policyholder behavior. collateral postings to (when we are in a net pay position) or from (when we are in a net receive position) counterparties. The net collateral position depends on changes in interest rates and equity markets related to the amount of the exposures hedged. Depending on market conditions, the collateral posting requirements can result in material liquidity needs when we are in a net pay position. As of December 31, 2020, the derivatives comprising the hedging portion of our ALM strategy and capital hedge program were in a net receive position of 3.4 billion compared to a net receive position of 4.7 billion as of December 31, 2019. The change in collateral position was primarily driven by a negative impact from increasing equities, partially offset by decreasing interest rates. those associated with the yen. Our overall yen hedging strategy calibrates the hedge level to preserve the relative contribution of our yen-based business to the Company s overall return on equity on a leverage neutral basis. The hedging strategy includes two primary components: December 31, 2020 (in billions) Cash and short-term investments 1.3 3.4 1.3 6.0 5.0 Fixed maturity investments(3): Subtotal 44.8 99.6 8.1 152.5 162.6 Public equity securities 1.7 1.9 0.0 3.6 4.7 Total 47.8 104.9 9.4 162.1 172.3 (2) Represents our international insurance operations, excluding Japan. (3) Excludes fixed maturities designated as held-to-maturity. Credit quality is based on NAIC or equivalent rating. (4) As of December 31, 2020, 112.9 billion, or 76%, were invested in government or government agency bonds. High or highest quality(4) 44.1 97.4 6.2 147.7 157.2 Other than high or highest quality 0.7 2.2 1.9 4.8 5.4 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the fair value of our international insurance operations portfolio of liquid assets, as of the dates Given the size and liquidity profile of our investment portfolios, we believe that claim experience, including policyholder Hedging activities associated with Individual Annuities For the portion of our Individual Annuities ALM strategy executed through hedging, as well as the capital hedge program, we The hedging portion of our Individual Annuities ALM strategy and capital hedge program may also result in derivative related Foreign exchange hedging activities We employ various hedging strategies to manage potential exposure to foreign currency exchange rate movements, particularly Prudential Other(2) Total December 31, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 178 425 derivative contracts that effectively fix the currency exchange rates for that portion of earnings, thereby reducing volatility from foreign currency exchange rate movements. As of December 31, 2020, we have hedged 100%, 72%, and 31%, of expected yen-based earnings for 2021, 2022 and 2023, respectively. mitigate volatility in the solvency margins of yen-based subsidiaries resulting from changes in the market value of their USD- denominated investments hedging our USD-equivalent equity attributable to changes in the yen-USD exchange rate. international-based subsidiaries or external parties. The cash flows are dependent on changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the notional amount of the exposures hedged. For example, a significant yen depreciation over an extended period of time could result in net cash inflows, while a significant yen appreciation could result in net cash outflows. The following tables set forth information about net cash settlements and the net asset or liability resulting from these hedging activities related to the yen and other currencies for the periods indicated: (1) Includes non-yen related cash settlements of 60 million, primarily denominated in Brazilian real, Australian dollar and Chilean peso and 41 million, primarily denominated in Australian dollar, Korean won and Brazilian real for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. origination and servicing fees, and internal and external funding facilities. The principal uses of liquidity include general and administrative expenses, facilitating our commercial mortgage loan business, and distributions of dividends and returns of capital to Prudential Financial. The primary liquidity risks for our fee-based PGIM businesses relate to their profitability, which is impacted by market conditions, our investment management performance and client redemptions. We believe the cash flows from our fee-based Year ended December 31, Cash Settlements: Received (Paid) 2020 2019 (in millions) Income Hedges (External)(1) 74 67 Equity Hedges: As of December 31, Assets (Liabilities): 2020 2019 (in millions) Income Hedges (External)(4) 3 60 Equity Hedges: (2) Represents internal transactions between international-based and U.S.-based entities. Amounts noted are from the U.S.-based entities perspectives. (3) Includes non-yen related cash settlements of 23 million and 17 million, denominated in Korean won for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (4) Includes non-yen related assets of 2 million, primarily denominated in Brazilian real, Chilean peso and Australian dollar and assets of 37 million, primarily denominated in Korean won, Australian dollar and Chilean peso, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (5) Includes non-yen related assets of 1 million, denominated in Korean won, as of December 31, 2019. (6) As of December 31, 2020, approximately 324 million, 117 million and (207) million of the net market values are scheduled to settle in 2021, 2022 and thereafter, respectively. The net market value of the assets (liabilities) will vary with changing market conditions to the extent there are no corresponding offsetting positions. Internal(2) 188 432 External(3) 230 143 Total Cash Settlements 492 642 Internal(2) 291 506 External(5) (56) 43 Total Assets (Liabilities) 238 609 Table of Contents Income Hedges We hedge a portion of our prospective yen-based earnings streams by entering into external forward currency Equity Hedges We hold both internal and external hedges primarily to hedge our USD-equivalent equity. These hedges also For additional information on our hedging strategy, see Results of Operations Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Cash settlements from these hedging activities result in cash flows between subsidiaries of Prudential Financial and either PGIM operations The principal sources of liquidity for our fee-based PGIM businesses include asset management fees, commercial mortgage Total Equity Hedges 418 575 Total Equity Hedges(6) 235 549 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 179 425 PGIM businesses are adequate to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of these operations, as well as requirements that could arise under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios, which are monitored through the use of internal measures. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 180 425 investments, the ability to liquidate investments, borrowing lines from internal sources, including Prudential Financial and Prudential Funding, LLC ( Prudential Funding ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of PICA, and external sources, including PGIM s limited-recourse credit facility. The principal use of liquidity for our co- and seed investments includes making investments to support business growth and paying interest expense from the internal and external borrowings used to fund those investments. The primary liquidity risks include the inability to sell assets in a timely manner, declines in the value of assets and credit defaults. There have been no material changes to the liquidity position of our PGIM operations since December 31, 2020. Alternative Sources of Liquidity sources of liquidity, including syndicated, unsecured committed credit facilities, membership in the Federal Home Loan Banks, commercial paper programs, and a put option agreement. In May 2020, we entered into a facility agreement with a Delaware trust, pursuant to which Prudential Financial may issue and sell to the trust at any time over a ten-year period up to 1.5 billion of senior notes due May 15, 2030 and receive in exchange a corresponding amount of U.S. Treasury securities, thereby augmenting our alternative sources of liquidity. For more information on these sources of liquidity, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. securities lending, repurchase agreements and mortgage dollar rolls, to earn spread income, to borrow funds, or to facilitate trading activity. These programs are primarily driven by portfolio holdings of securities that are lendable based on counterparty demand for these securities in the marketplace. The collateral received in connection with these programs is primarily used to purchase securities in the short-term spread portfolios of our insurance entities. Investments held in the short-term spread portfolios include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments (primarily corporate bonds), mortgage loans and fixed maturities (primarily collateralized loan obligations and other structured securities), with a weighted average life at time of purchase by the short-term portfolios of four years or less. Floating rate assets comprise the majority of our short-term spread portfolio. These short-term portfolios are subject to specific investment policy statements, which among other things, do not allow for significant asset liability interest rate duration mismatch. (1) The daily weighted average outstanding balance for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 was 11,464 million and 10,524 million, respectively, for PFI excluding the Closed Block division, and 3,290 million and 4,152 million, respectively, for the Closed Block division. of 132.0 billion, of which 14.1 billion were on loan. Taking into account market conditions and outstanding loan balances as of December 31, 2020, we believe approximately 16.1 billion of the remaining eligible assets are readily lendable, including approximately 11.1 billion relating to PFI excluding the Closed Block division, of which 2.9 billion relates to certain separate accounts and may only be used for financing activities related to those accounts, and the remaining 5.0 billion relating to the Closed Block division. December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 ( in millions) Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 8,092 2,802 10,894 6,834 2,847 9,681 Cash collateral for loaned securities 3,379 120 3,499 3,228 986 4,214 Securities sold but not yet purchased 2 0 2 0 0 0 Portion of above securities that may be returned to the Company overnight requiring immediate return of the cash collateral(3) 10,463 2,922 13,385 10,062 3,833 13,895 Weighted average maturity, in days(3) 28 N A N A N A (2) Includes utilization of external funding facilities for PGIM s commercial mortgage origination business. (3) Excludes securities that may be returned to the Company overnight. N A reflects that all outstanding balances may be returned to the Company overnight. Total(1)(2) 11,473 2,922 14,395 10,062 3,833 13,895 Table of Contents The principal sources of liquidity for our co- and seed investments held in our PGIM businesses are cash flows from In addition to asset-based financing as discussed below, Prudential Financial and certain subsidiaries have access to other Asset-based Financing We conduct asset-based or secured financing within our insurance and other subsidiaries, including transactions such as The following table sets forth our liabilities under asset-based or secured financing programs as of the dates indicated: As of December 31, 2020, our domestic insurance entities had assets eligible for the asset-based or secured financing programs Closed Block Excluding Division Consolidated Closed Block Excluding Division Consolidated 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 181 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 182 425 Financing Activities increase of 0.1 billion from December 31, 2019. The following table sets forth total consolidated borrowings of the Company as of the dates indicated. We may, from time to time, seek to redeem or repurchase our outstanding debt securities through open market purchases, individually negotiated transactions or otherwise. Any such actions will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity position and other factors. (1) Amounts are net of assets under set-off arrangements of 10,964 million and 9,749 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. For additional information on our short- and long-term debt obligations, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. notes at interest rates of 3.70% and 4.125% and with maturities ranging from 2050 to 2060 and using the proceeds to redeem in September 2020 our 710 million 5.70% junior subordinated notes due in 2053 and our 575 million 5.75% junior subordinated notes due in 2052. to meet the capital requirements of our businesses, was 13.5 billion and 14.6 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Operating debt of 6.4 billion and 5.2 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, is utilized for business funding to meet specific purposes, which may include activities associated with our PGIM and Assurance IQ businesses. Operating debt also consists of debt issued to finance specific portfolios of investment assets, the proceeds from which will service the debt. Specifically, this includes assets supporting reserve requirements under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX as described below, as well as funding for institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences. December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 General obligation short-term debt: Subtotal 424 355 779 1,204 524 1,728 General obligation long-term debt: Subtotal 18,561 576 19,137 17,430 571 18,001 Limited and non-recourse borrowings(2) Subtotal 0 727 727 0 850 850 Total borrowings 18,985 1,658 20,643 18,634 1,945 20,579 (2) Limited and non-recourse borrowing primarily represents mortgage debt of our subsidiaries that has recourse only to real estate investment property of 409 million and 537 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and a draw on a credit facility with recourse only to collateral pledged by the Company of 300 million as of both December 31, 2020 and 2019. Commercial paper 25 355 380 25 524 549 Current portion of long-term debt 399 0 399 1,179 0 1,179 Senior debt 11,007 173 11,179 9,912 172 10,084 Junior subordinated debt 7,554 60 7,615 7,518 57 7,575 Surplus notes(1) 0 343 343 0 342 342 Total general obligations 18,985 931 19,916 18,634 1,095 19,729 Short-term debt 0 18 18 0 13 13 Current portion of long-term debt 0 128 128 0 192 192 Long-term debt 0 581 581 0 645 645 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2020, total short-term and long-term debt of the Company on a consolidated basis was 20.6 billion, an As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we were in compliance with all debt covenants related to the borrowings in the table above. We executed transactions to reduce our ongoing financing costs in August 2020 by issuing 1.3 billion of junior subordinated Based on the use of proceeds, we classify our borrowings as capital debt and operating debt. Capital debt, which is debt utilized Prudential Financial Subsidiaries Consolidated (in millions) Prudential Financial Subsidiaries Consolidated 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 183 425 Prudential Financial Borrowings funding needs, as well as the capital and funding needs of its subsidiaries. Prudential Financial maintains a shelf registration statement with the SEC that permits the issuance of public debt, equity and hybrid securities. As a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer under SEC rules, Prudential Financial s shelf registration statement provides for automatic effectiveness upon filing and has no stated issuance capacity. related costs, of 1.5 billion of senior debt and 1.3 billion of Junior subordinated debt, partially offset by 1.2 billion in senior debt maturities and 1.3 billion in junior subordinated debt redemptions. For more information on long-term debt, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Subsidiary Borrowings real estate investment financing. Borrowings of our subsidiaries decreased 287 million from December 31, 2019 due primarily to a 169 million decrease in commercial paper outstanding and a 123 million decrease in limited and non-recourse borrowings. domestic life insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees that are consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life policies with similar guarantees. Many market participants believe that these levels of reserves are excessive relative to the levels reasonably required to maintain solvency for moderately adverse experience. The difference between the statutory reserve and the amount necessary to maintain solvency for moderately adverse experience is considered to be the non-economic portion of the statutory reserve. insurance companies under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX that we consider to be non-economic. The financing arrangements involve the reinsurance of term and universal life business to our captive reinsurers and the issuance of surplus notes by those captives that are treated as capital for statutory purposes. These surplus notes are subordinated to policyholder obligations, and the payment of principal and interest on the surplus notes can only be made with prior insurance regulatory approval. reinsurers in return for the receipt of credit-linked notes ( Credit-Linked Note Structures ). As of December 31, 2020, we had Credit- Linked Note Structures with an aggregate issuance capacity of 14,825 million, of which 12,919 million was outstanding, as compared to an aggregate issuance capacity of 13,700 million, of which 12,009 million was outstanding, as of December 31, 2019. The increase in issuance capacity in 2020 reflects a 1,200 million Credit-Linked Note Structure entered into in June 2020 for Guideline AXXX reserves, of which 700 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2020. Under the agreements, the captive receives in exchange for the surplus notes one or more credit-linked notes issued by a special-purpose affiliate of the Company with an aggregate principal amount equal to the surplus notes outstanding. The captive holds the credit-linked notes as assets supporting Regulation XXX or Guideline AXXX non-economic reserves, as applicable. The captive can redeem the principal amount of the outstanding credit-linked notes for cash upon the occurrence of, and in an amount necessary to remedy, a specified liquidity stress event affecting the captive. Under the agreements, the external counterparties have agreed to fund any such payments under the credit-linked notes in return for the receipt of fees. Under certain of the transactions, Prudential Financial has agreed to make capital contributions to the captive to reimburse it for investment losses in excess of specified amounts and or has agreed to reimburse the external counterparties for any payments made under the credit-linked notes. To date, no such payments under the credit-linked notes have been required. Under these transactions, because valid rights of set-off exist, interest and principal payments on the surplus notes and on the credit-linked notes are settled on a net basis, and the surplus notes are reflected in the Company s total consolidated borrowings on a net basis. Table of Contents Long-term borrowings are conducted primarily by Prudential Financial. It borrows these funds to meet its capital and other Prudential Financial s borrowings increased 0.4 billion from December 31, 2019, primarily driven by the issuance, net of Subsidiary borrowings principally consist of commercial paper borrowings by Prudential Funding, asset-based financing and Term and Universal Life Reserve Financing For business written prior to the implementation of principle-based reserving, Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX require We use captive reinsurance subsidiaries to finance the portion of the statutory reserves required to be held by our domestic life We have entered into agreements with external counterparties providing for the issuance of surplus notes by our captive The following table summarizes our Credit-Linked Note Structures, which are reported on a net basis, as of December 31, 2020: 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 184 425 (1) Prudential Financial has agreed to reimburse amounts paid under the credit-linked notes issued in this structure up to 0.5 billion. During the fourth quarter of 2019, this financing facility was restructured to allow for an extension through 2036. Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX non-economic reserves, of which approximately 1,175 million relates to Regulation XXX reserves and 1,600 million relates to Guideline AXXX reserves. In addition, as of December 31, 2020, for purposes of financing Guideline AXXX reserves, one of our captives had 3,982 million of surplus notes outstanding that were issued to affiliates. principle-based reserving by January 1, 2020. These updated products are currently priced to support the principle-based statutory reserve level without the need for reserve financing. Certain elements of the implementation of principle-based reserving are yet to be finalized by the NAIC and may have a material impact on statutory reserves. The Company continues to assess the impact of the implementation of principle-based reserving on projected statutory reserve levels, product pricing and the use of financing. affecting public confidence in an insurer and its competitive position in marketing products. Our credit ratings are also important for our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and for the cost of such financing. Nationally Recognized Statistical Ratings Organizations continually review the financial performance and financial condition of the entities they rate, including Prudential Financial and its rated subsidiaries. other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements and or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors, or trading counterparties thereby potentially negatively affecting our profitability, liquidity, and or capital. In addition, we consider our own risk of non-performance in determining the fair value of our liabilities. Therefore, changes in our credit or financial strength ratings may affect the fair value of our liabilities. meet its obligations under an insurance policy. Credit ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding an entity s ability to repay its indebtedness. The following table summarizes the ratings for Prudential Financial and certain of its subsidiaries as of the date of this filing: Surplus Notes December 31, 2020 Credit-Linked Note Structures: ( in millions) XXX 2011-2014 2021-2024 1,750 (1) 1,750 AXXX 2013 2033 3,248 3,500 XXX 2014-2018 2021-2034 2,355 (2) 2,375 XXX 2014-2017 2024-2037 2,330 2,400 AXXX 2017 2037 1,466 2,000 XXX 2018 2038 1,070 1,600 AXXX 2020 2032 700 1,200 (2) The 2.36 billion of surplus notes represents an intercompany transaction that eliminates upon consolidation. Prudential Financial has agreed to reimburse amounts paid under credit-linked notes issued in this structure up to 1.0 billion. Total Credit-Linked Note Structures 12,919 14,825 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2020, we also had outstanding an aggregate of 2,775 million of debt issued for the purpose of financing The Company has introduced updated versions of its individual life products in conjunction with the requirement to adopt Financial strength ratings (which are sometimes referred to as claims-paying ratings) and credit ratings are important factors A downgrade in the credit or financial strength ratings of Prudential Financial or its rated subsidiaries could potentially, among Financial strength ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the financial ability of an insurance company to Issue Dates Outstanding as of 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 185 425 The Current Stable Outlook on Prudential s ratings corresponds to all S&P rated Prudential entities including Prudential s Japanese Subsidiaries NR indicates not rated. (1) A.M. Best Company, which we refer to as A.M. Best, financial strength ratings for insurance companies range from A (superior) to D (Poor) . A rating of A is the second highest of thirteen rating categories. A.M. Best long-term credit ratings range from aaa (exceptional) to c (Poor) . A.M. Best short-term credit ratings range from AMB-1 , which represents the strongest ability to repay short-term debt obligations, to AMB-4 (Questionable) . other rating. These ratings are not directed toward shareholders and do not in any way reflect evaluations of the safety and security of the Common Stock. These ratings are reviewed periodically and may be changed at any time by the rating agencies. As a result, we cannot assure stakeholders that we will maintain our current ratings in the future. outlook generally implies that over the next 12 to 18 months the rating agency expects ratings to remain unchanged among companies in the sector. In 2020, Fitch, Moody s and AM Best revised the Rating Outlook on the U.S. life insurance industry from Stable to Negative. S&P maintained their outlook for the U.S. life insurance sector at Stable. In June of 2020, S&P revised their Outlook on the Japan sovereign rating from Positive to Stable . This resulted in a change in outlook to Stable for Prudential of Japan, Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Co. and Gibraltar, as these entities are capped by Japan s sovereign credit rating ( A Stable Outlook). Last review date 12 2 2020 11 25 2020 9 11 2020 5 18 2020 Current outlook Stable Stable Stable Stable Financial Strength Ratings: The Prudential Insurance Company of America A AA- Aa3 AA- Pruco Life Insurance Company A AA- Aa3 AA- Pruco Life Insurance Company of New Jersey A AA- NR AA- Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation A AA- NR AA- Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company A AA- Aa3 AA- The Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd. (Prudential of Japan) NR A NR NR Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd. NR A NR NR The Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Co. Ltd NR A NR NR Credit Ratings: Prudential Financial, Inc.: The Prudential Insurance Company of America: Prudential Funding, LLC: PRICOA Global Funding I: (2) Standard & Poor s Rating Services, which we refer to as S&P, financial strength ratings for insurance companies range from AAA (extremely strong) to D (default) . A rating of AA- is the fourth highest of twenty-three rating categories. S&P s long-term issue credit ratings range from AAA (extremely strong) to D (default) . S&P short-term ratings range from A-1 (highest category) to D (default) . (3) Moody s Investors Service, Inc., which we refer to as Moody s, insurance financial strength ratings range from Aaa (exceptional) to C (lowest) . A rating of Aa3 is the fourth highest of twenty-one rating categories. Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the group with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. These modifiers are used to indicate relative strength within a category. Moody s long-term credit ratings range from Aaa (highest) to C (default) . Moody s short-term ratings range from Prime-1 (P-1) , which represents a superior ability for repayment of short-term debt obligations, to Prime-3 (P-3) , which represents an acceptable ability for repayment of such obligations. Issuers rated Not Prime do not fall within any of the Prime rating categories. (4) Fitch Ratings Inc., which we refer to as Fitch, financial strength ratings range from AAA (exceptionally strong) to C (distressed) . A rating of AA- is the fourth highest of twenty-one rating categories. Fitch long-term credit ratings range from AAA (highest credit quality) , which denotes exceptionally strong capacity for timely payment of financial commitments, to D (default) . Short-term ratings range from F1 (highest credit quality) to D (default) . (The Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd., Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd., and The Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Co. Ltd.), which have Stable Outlooks as of June 2020. Short-term borrowings AMB-1 A-1 P-2 F1 Long-term senior debt a- A A3 A- Junior subordinated long-term debt bbb BBB Baa1 BBB Capital and surplus notes a A A2 A Short-term debt AMB-1 A-1 P-1 F1 Long-term senior debt a AA- A1 A Long-term senior debt aa- AA- Aa3 AA- Table of Contents The ratings set forth above reflect current opinions of each rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any Rating agencies use an outlook statement for both industry sectors and individual companies. For an industry sector, a stable Best(1) S&P(2) Moody s(3) Fitch(4) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 186 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 187 425 credit fundamentals, which if continued, may lead to a rating change. These indicators are not necessarily a precursor of a rating change nor do they preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time without notice. A.M. Best, Fitch, S&P and Moody s have the Company s ratings on Stable outlook. derivative agreements, can be satisfied in cash or by posting permissible securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. In addition, a ratings downgrade by A.M. Best to A- for our domestic life insurance companies would require PICA to either post collateral or a letter of credit in the amount of approximately 1.2 billion, based on the level of statutory reserves related to the variable annuity business acquired from Allstate. We believe that the posting of such collateral would not be a material liquidity event for PICA. 2020. The estimated payments reflected in this table are based on management s estimates and assumptions about these obligations. Because these estimates and assumptions are necessarily subjective, the actual cash outflows in future periods will vary, possibly materially, from those reflected in the table. In addition, we do not believe that our cash flow requirements can be adequately assessed based solely upon an analysis of these obligations, as the table below does not contemplate all aspects of our cash inflows, such as the level of cash flow generated by certain of our investments, nor all aspects of our cash outflows. (1) The estimated payments due by period for long-term debt reflects the contractual maturities of principal, as disclosed in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as estimated future interest payments. The payment of principal and estimated future interest for short-term debt are reflected in estimated payments due in 2021. The estimate for future interest payments includes the effect of derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting treatment. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning our short-term and long-term debt. Estimated Payments Due by Period Total 2021 2022-2023 2024-2025 (in millions) Short-term and long-term debt obligations(1) 41,534 1,881 2,577 2,857 34,219 Operating lease obligations(2) 556 156 202 118 80 Purchase obligations: Other liabilities: (2) The estimated payments due by period for operating leases reflect the future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases, as disclosed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (3) As discussed in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we have commitments to purchase or fund investments, some of which are contingent upon events or circumstances not under our control, including those at the discretion of our counterparties. The timing of the fulfillment of certain of these commitments cannot be estimated, therefore the settlements of these obligations are reflected in estimated payments due in less than one year. Commitments to purchase or fund investments include 336 million that we anticipate will ultimately be funded from our separate accounts. (4) As discussed in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, loan commitments of our commercial mortgage operations, which are legally binding commitments to extend credit to a counterparty, have been reflected in the contractual obligations table above principally based on the expiration date of the commitment however, it is possible these loan commitments could be funded prior to their expiration date. In certain circumstances the counterparty may also extend the date of the expiration in exchange for a fee. (5) The estimated cash flows due by period for insurance liabilities reflect future estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders and others for future policy benefits, policyholders account balances, policyholder s dividends, reinsurance payables and separate account liabilities, net of premium receipts and reinsurance recoverables. Contractual obligations are contingent upon the receipt of premiums. These future estimated cash flows for current policies in force generally reflect our best estimate economic and actuarial assumptions. These cash flows are undiscounted with respect to interest. Therefore, the sum of the cash flows shown for all years in the table of 1,182 billion exceeds the corresponding liability amounts of approximately 809 billion included in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2020. Separate account liabilities are legally insulated from general account obligations, and it is generally expected these liabilities will be fully funded by separate account assets and their related cash flows. We have made significant assumptions to determine the future estimated cash flows related to the underlying policies and contracts. Due to the significance of the assumptions used and the contingent nature of contractual terms, actual cash flows and their timing will differ, possibly materially, from these estimates. Timing of cash flows in the 2025 and thereafter category include long term liabilities that may extend beyond 100 years. (6) The estimated payments due by period for other liabilities includes securities sold under agreements to repurchase, cash collateral for loaned securities, liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, bank customer liabilities, and other miscellaneous liabilities. Amounts presented in the Commitments to purchase or fund investments(3) 9,903 5,219 2,650 1,171 863 Commercial mortgage loan commitments(4) 2,357 1,969 378 10 0 Insurance liabilities(5) 1,181,976 51,178 69,794 70,297 990,707 Other(6) 14,806 14,454 140 65 147 Table of Contents For a particular company, an outlook generally indicates a medium- or long-term trend (generally six months to two years) in Requirements to post collateral or make other payments because of ratings downgrades under certain agreements, including The table below summarizes the future estimated cash payments related to certain contractual obligations as of December 31, Total 1,251,132 74,857 75,741 74,518 1,026,016 Contractual Obligations 2026 and thereafter 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 188 425 table also exclude 305 million of notes issued by consolidated VIE s which recourse for these obligations is limited to the assets of the respective VIE and do not have recourse to the general credit of the company. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 189 425 obligations are not material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position as of December 31, 2020. Guarantees and Other Contingencies contingently required to make payments in the future. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Other Contingent Commitments those at the discretion of our counterparties. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these commitments. For further discussion of certain of these commitments that relate to our separate accounts, also see Liquidity associated with other activities PGIM operations. Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements right, at any time over a ten-year period, to issue up to 1.5 billion of senior notes to the trust in return for principal and interest strips of U.S. Treasury securities that are held by the trust. a ten-year period, to issue up to 1.5 billion of senior notes to the trust in return for principal and interest strips of U.S. Treasury securities that are held by the trust. notes and, in return, obtained 500 million of asset-backed notes from a Delaware master trust and ultimately contributed the asset- backed notes to its subsidiary, PRIAC. As of December 31, 2020, no principal payments have been received or are currently due on the asset-backed notes and, as a result, there was no payment obligation under the limited recourse notes. Accordingly, none of the notes are reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of that date. variable interests in unconsolidated entities or other similar transactions, arrangements or relationships that serve as credit, liquidity or market risk support, that we believe are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or our access to or requirements for capital resources. In addition, other than the agreements referred to above, we do not have relationships with any unconsolidated entities that are contractually limited to narrow activities that facilitate our transfer of or access to associated assets. Overview Management ( ERM ), to provide a common framework for: evaluating the risks embedded in and across our businesses and corporate centers developing risk appetites managing these risks and identifying current and future risk challenges and opportunities. For a discussion of the risks of our businesses, see Risk Factors . Risk Governance Framework businesses are authorized to make day-to-day risk decisions that are consistent with enterprise risk policies and limits, and subject to enterprise oversight. Board of Directors Oversight Table of Contents We also enter into agreements to purchase goods and services in the normal course of business however, these purchase In the course of our business, we provide certain guarantees and indemnities to third parties pursuant to which we may be We also have other commitments, some of which are contingent upon events or circumstances not under our control, including In 2020, Prudential Financial entered into a ten-year facility agreement with a Delaware trust that gives Prudential Financial the In 2013, we entered into a put option agreement with a Delaware trust that gives Prudential Financial the right, at any time over In 2014, Prudential Financial entered into financing transactions, pursuant to which it issued 500 million of limited recourse See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on these arrangements. Other than as described above, we do not have retained or contingent interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, or We employ a risk governance structure, overseen by senior management and our Board and managed by Enterprise Risk Each of our businesses has a risk governance structure that is supported by a framework at the corporate level. Generally, our Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Risk Management 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 190 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 191 425 Board and its committees. The Board also reviews strategic risks and opportunities facing the Company and its businesses. Other important categories of risk are assigned to designated Board committees that report back to the full Board. In general, the committees oversee the following risks: Management Oversight Officer and otherwise consists of the Vice Chairman, Head of U.S. Businesses, Head of International Businesses, General Counsel, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Investment Officer, Chief Information Officer and Chief Actuary. Our Chief Auditor also attends meetings of the ERC. The ERC oversees the Company s risk management framework, including the identification, assessment, monitoring and management of risks and how those risks align with the Company s loss absorption resources. The primary focus of the ERC is the critical analysis of significant quantitative and qualitative risks and the appropriateness and alignment to the defined risk appetite of the Company. matter experts and are dedicated to one of the following risk types: investment, market (including liquidity), insurance, operational, and model. Significant matters or matters where there are unresolved points of view are reviewed by the ERC. The Risk Oversight Committees provide an opportunity to evaluate complex issues by subject matter experts within the various risk areas. They evaluate the effectiveness of risk mitigation options, identify stakeholders of risks and issues, review material assumptions for reasonability and consistency across the Company, and develop recommendations for risk limits, among other responsibilities. identify, assess, and monitor risk and exposure issues and to review new business activities and initiatives. Enterprise Risk Management Oversight and standards for all risks. ERM oversees these risks under the guidance of the ERC and Risk Oversight Committees. Additionally, ERM and our business unit Chief Risk Officers work with our businesses and corporate areas to identify, monitor and manage risks that we may face. The ERM infrastructure is generally aligned by risk type, with certain groups within ERM working across risk types. Risk Identification are three levels of activities that seek to ensure that changes in risk levels or new risks to the Company are identified and Audit Committee: insurance risk and operational risk, including model risk, as well as risks related to financial controls, legal, regulatory and compliance risks, and the overall risk management governance structure and risk management function Compensation Committee: the design and operation of the Company s compensation programs so that they do not encourage unnecessary or excessive risk-taking, as well as broad human capital management issues Corporate Governance and Business Ethics Committee: the Company s overall ethical culture, political contributions, lobbying expenses and overall political strategy, as well as the Company s Environmental, Social, and Governance strategy that includes environmental risk (which includes climate risk), sustainability and corporate social responsibility to minimize reputational risk and focus on future sustainability Finance Committee: liquidity risk and risk involving our capital and liquidity management, including the incurrence and repayment of borrowings, the capital structure of the Company, funding of benefit plans and statutory insurance reserves. The Finance Committee oversees our capital plan and receives regular updates on the sources and uses of capital relative to plan, as well as on our Risk Appetite Framework Investment Committee: investment risk, market risk, and review of investment performance and risk positions. The Investment Committee approves investment and market risk limits based on asset class, issuer, credit quality and geography and Risk Committee: the governance of significant risk throughout the Company, the establishment and ongoing monitoring of our risk profile, risk capacity and risk appetite, and coordination of the risk oversight functions of the other Board committees. Table of Contents Our Board oversees our risk profile and management s processes for assessing and managing risk, through both the whole Our primary risk management committee is the Enterprise Risk Committee ( ERC ). The ERC is chaired by our Chief Risk The ERC is supported by five Risk Oversight Committees aligned with our tactical risks, each of which consists of subject In addition, each of our businesses and certain corporate centers maintains their own risk committee as a forum for leaders to ERM manages the risk management framework. It operates independently and is responsible for recommending policies, limits We rely on a combination of activities to ensure that all material risks have been identified and managed as appropriate. There 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 192 425 escalated as appropriate: (1) business activities, (2) corporate center activities, and (3) processes involving senior management and the Board. Risk Measurement and Monitoring align with the Company s capacity and willingness to take those risks. Using the Risk Appetite Framework, the Company measures, evaluates, and manages its financial risks. The comprehensive models, metrics, and stress scenarios used enable the Company to understand its current risk profile as well as how the risk profile may change over time through varying degrees of stress. The Risk Appetite Framework anchors the risk and capital management processes and supports management and the Board in making well- informed business decisions.. of stress scenarios designed to explore outcomes across the investment portfolios and businesses. This robust stress testing examines the sensitivity of assets and liabilities and how they interact with each other through time to identify places where the Company s capacity may be challenged by the risks taken. These analytics provide insight into the impact of stress scenarios on capital and liquidity. quantifiable. By continuously scanning the internal environment and reporting findings to leadership and the Board on a regular basis, the Company can monitor and mitigate operational risks in qualitative areas, such as: culture reputation compliance with laws, regulations, and policies and decision-making incentives. defaults, currencies and pandemics. This framework includes a specific pandemic and sell-off scenario with a mortality calamity (1.5 extra deaths per 1,000 lives in the first year) based on a modern-day interpretation of the 1918 Spanish Flu experience that is aligned with most regulatory frameworks. The stress scenario assumes an even distribution of increased mortality across the population, while current COVID-19 mortality is sharply skewed toward older ages. As the COVID-19 event continues to unfold, we continue to update our analysis and take management actions in response to this specific event. testing. In addition, we expect the impact of COVID-19-related claims to be moderated by the balance between our mortality exposure (such as in our individual and group life businesses) and our longevity exposure (such as in our retirement business). ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Market Risk resulting from asset liability mismatches where the change in the value of our liabilities is not offset by the change in value of our assets. Business Activities: Each business area has a risk committee that allows senior leaders to discuss and evaluate current, new, and emerging risks in their own operations. Businesses are required to develop and maintain documented risk inventories that facilitate the identification of current risk exposures. Corporate Center Activities: The corporate centers review the results of the business activities and examine risks from an enterprise view across businesses under normal and stressed conditions. As a result, the corporate centers, particularly ERM, use several processes and activities to identify and assess the risks of the Company. Most corporate centers have their own risk committees. Senior Management and the Board: Senior management plays a critical role in reviewing the risk profile of the Company, including identifying impacts to the business strategy and risks in any new strategies under consideration. These risks are discussed with the ERC as appropriate, and with the Board if significant. As discussed above, the Board oversees the Company s risk profile and management s processes for assessing and managing risk, both as a full Board and through its committees. Table of Contents Our Risk Appetite Framework is a comprehensive process designed to reasonably ensure that risks taken across the Company The Risk Appetite Framework is centered around a comprehensive and cohesive stress testing regime which includes a variety Additionally, the Qualitative Risk Appetite Framework helps the Company understand and manage risks that are not easily Our risk management framework incorporates severe to very severe stresses across equities, interest rates, credit migration and As of December 31, 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic has not reached the most severe levels included in the Company s stress Market risk is defined as the risk of loss from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 193 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 194 425 economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability, see Item 1A. Risk Factors above. For additional information regarding the overall management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations General Account Investments Management of Investments above. For additional information regarding our liquidity and capital resources, which may be impacted by changing market risks, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources above. Market Risk Management the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Risk Management above. Market Risk Mitigation Market Risk Related to Interest Rates risk that changes in liability values will differ from the changes in the value of the related assets. Additionally, changes in interest rates may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. Convexity measures the rate of change in duration with respect to changes in interest rates. We use asset liability management and derivative strategies to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liability duration targets. In certain markets, capital market limitations that hinder our ability to acquire assets that approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting duration targets. Table of Contents For additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest rate and other market fluctuations, as well as general Management of market risk, which we consider to be a combination of both investment risk and market risk exposures, includes Our risk management process utilizes a variety of tools and techniques, including: Measures of price sensitivity to market changes (e.g., interest rates, equity index prices, foreign exchange) Asset liability management Stress scenario testing Hedging programs and Risk management governance, including policies, limits, and a committee that oversees investment and market risk. For additional information regarding our overall risk management framework and governance structure, see Management s Risk mitigation takes three primary forms: Asset Liability Management: Managing assets to liability-based measures. For example, investment policies identify target durations for assets based on liability characteristics and asset portfolios are managed to within ranges around them. This mitigates potential unanticipated economic losses from interest rate movements. Hedging: Using derivatives to offset risk exposures. For example, for our variable annuities, potential living benefit claims resulting from more severe market conditions are hedged using derivative instruments. Management of portfolio concentration risk. For example, ongoing monitoring and management at the enterprise level of key rate, currency and other concentration risks support diversification efforts to mitigate exposure to individual markets and sources of risk. We perform liability-driven investing and engage in careful asset liability management. Asset liability mismatches create the Net investment spread between the amounts that we are required to pay and the rate of return we are able to earn on investments for certain products supported by general account investments Asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account values Estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs Net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products and Capital levels of our regulated entities. We use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. Duration measures the relative 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 195 425 We consider risk-based capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset liability management strategies. hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in either credit spreads or the risk-free rate. The following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value on these financial instruments from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of December 31, 2020 and 2019. This table is presented on a gross basis and excludes offsetting impacts to insurance liabilities that are not considered financial liabilities under U.S GAAP. This scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. While the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. These test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. As a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. The estimated changes in fair values do not include separate account assets. (1) Includes assets classified as Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value, Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, at fair value and Fixed maturities, trading, at fair value. Approximately 413 billion and 391 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, of fixed maturities are classified as available-for-sale. universal life, and indexed annuity contracts, reflected in the table above, includes the impact of the market s perception of our NPR. For more information on NPR related to the sensitivity of the embedded derivatives to our NPR credit spread, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Accounting Policies & Pronouncements Application of Critical Accounting Estimates Sensitivities for Insurance Assets and Liabilities above. As of December 31, 2020 As of December 31, 2019 (in millions) Financial assets with interest rate risk: Derivatives with interest rate risk: Financial liabilities with interest rate risk(4): (2) Embedded derivatives relate primarily to certain features associated with variable annuity, indexed universal life, and indexed annuity contracts. The fair value and hypothetical change in fair value of each is (18,528) million and 7,720 million, (1,334) million and 170 million, and (580) million and (115) million, respectively, as of December 31, 2020. The fair value and hypothetical change in fair value of each is (12,602) million and 6,315 million, (1,119) million and 216 million, and (197) million and (6) million, respectively, as of December 31, 2019. (3) Excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge changes in the embedded derivatives. Amounts reported net of third-party reinsurance. (4) Excludes approximately 360 billion and 344 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities which are not considered financial liabilities. We believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts. Fixed maturities(1) 440,531 (47,271) 416,812 (43,532) Commercial mortgage and other loans 68,676 (3,010) 65,893 (3,112) Swaps 244,020 3,457 (6,039) 200,055 6,894 (4,747) Futures 21,458 79 (1,191) 18,897 (37) (1,004) Options 52,093 1,384 (616) 50,403 15 (91) Forwards 41,214 86 (49) 30,488 (23) (105) Synthetic GICs 86,264 0 0 80,009 1 0 Embedded derivatives(2)(3) (20,793) 7,775 (14,147) 6,525 Short-term and long-term debt (24,408) 4,873 (23,277) 4,156 Policyholders account balances investment contracts (110,473) 3,791 (102,156) 3,562 Table of Contents We assess the impact of interest rate movements on the value of our financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using Under U.S. GAAP, the fair value of the embedded derivatives for certain features associated with variable annuity, indexed Net estimated potential loss (41,737) (38,348) Hypothetical Change in Fair Value Notional Hypothetical Change in Fair Value 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 196 425 and related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives, see Market Risk Related to Certain Variable Annuity Products below. For additional information about the key estimates and assumptions used in our determination of fair value, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For information on the impacts of a sustained low interest rate environment, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Summary Impact of a Low Interest Rate Environment above. Market Risk Related to Equity Prices general account investment portfolio and unhedged exposure in our insurance liabilities, principally related to certain variable annuity living benefit feature embedded derivatives. Our equity-based derivatives primarily hedge the equity risk embedded in these living benefit feature embedded derivatives, and are also part of our capital hedging program. Changes in equity prices create risk that the resulting changes in asset values will differ from the changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying or hedged products. Additionally, changes in equity prices may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: of market indices, mainly the S&P 500 and Russell 2000 for U.S. equities. We benchmark foreign equities against the Tokyo Price Index, and the MSCI EAFE, a market index of European, Australian, and Far Eastern equities. We target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. the net estimated potential loss in fair value from such a decline as of December 31, 2020 and 2019. While these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near-term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. These scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset-based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. In addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. The impact of basis risk could result in larger differences between the change in fair value of the equity-based derivatives and the related living benefit features in comparison to these scenarios. In calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities. (1) Includes equity securities classified as Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities and Equity securities, at fair value. Market Risk Related to Foreign Currency Exchange Rates As of December 31, 2020 As of December 31, 2019 (in millions) Equity securities(1) 10,041 (1,004) 9,175 (918) Equity-based derivatives(2) 64,407 (557) 1,800 52,677 (719) 1,755 Embedded derivatives(2)(3)(4) (20,793) (1,676) (14,147) (1,726) (2) The notional and fair value of equity-based derivatives and the fair value of embedded derivatives are also reflected in amounts under Market Risk Related to Interest Rates above, and are not cumulative. (3) Embedded derivatives relate primarily to certain features associated with variable annuity, indexed universal life, and indexed annuity contracts. The fair value and hypothetical change in fair value of each is (18,528) million and (1,921) million, (1,334) million and 59 million, and (580) million and 186 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2020. The fair value and hypothetical change in fair value of each is (12,602) million and (1,833) million, (1,119) million and 81 million, and (197) million and 26 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2019. (4) Excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge changes in the embedded derivatives. Amounts reported net of third-party reinsurance. Net estimated potential loss (880) (889) Table of Contents For an additional discussion of our variable annuity optional living benefit guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives We have exposure to equity risk through asset liability mismatches, including our investments in equity securities held in our Asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account value Estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs and Net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products. We manage equity risk against benchmarks in respective markets. We benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend We estimate our equity risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels. The following table sets forth Hypothetical Fair Value Notional Change in Hypothetical Fair Value Change in 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 197 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 198 425 foreign currency exchange rate risk related to these operations, as well as in our general account investment portfolio and other proprietary investment portfolios. volatility in the U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. We actively manage this risk through various hedging strategies, including the use of foreign currency hedges and through holding U.S. dollar-denominated securities in the investment portfolios of certain of these operations. Additionally, our Japanese insurance operations offer a variety of non-yen denominated products which are supported by investments in corresponding currencies. While these non-yen denominated assets are economically matched to the currency of the product liabilities, the accounting treatment may differ for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to moves in foreign currency exchange rates, resulting in volatility in reported U.S. GAAP earnings. This volatility has been mitigated by disaggregating the U.S. and Australian dollar-denominated businesses in Gibraltar Life into separate divisions, each with its own functional currency that aligns with the underlying products and investments. For certain of our international insurance operations outside of Japan, we elect to not hedge the risk of changes in our equity investments due to foreign exchange rate movements. For further information, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact of products denominated in non-local currencies on U.S. GAAP earnings above. investment portfolios, our foreign currency exchange rate risk arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. We manage this risk by hedging substantially all domestic foreign currency denominated fixed income investments into U.S. dollars. We generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. Japanese insurance operations, to a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates. The following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from such a change as of December 31, 2020 and 2019. While these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future changes in foreign exchange markets, they represent reasonably possible near-term hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. General Account Investments Portfolio Composition and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations by Segment International Businesses above. Derivatives currency exchange rates, including their use to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. Our derivatives primarily include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts that are exchange-traded or contracted in the OTC market. performance of traditional insurance-related GICs but are accounted for as derivatives under U.S. GAAP due to the fact that the policyholders own the underlying assets, and we only provide a book value wrap on the customers funds, which are held in a client-owned trust. Since these wraps provide payment of guaranteed principal and interest to the customer, changes in interest rates create risk such that declines in the market value of customers funds would increase our net exposure to these guarantees however, our obligation is limited to payments that are in excess of the existing customers fund value. Additionally, we have the ability to periodically reset crediting rates, subject to a 0% minimum floor, as well as the ability to increase prices. Further, our contract provisions provide that, although participants may withdraw funds at book value, contractholder withdrawals may only occur at market value immediately, or at book value over time. These factors, among others, result in these contracts experiencing minimal changes in fair value, despite a more significant notional value. As of December 31, 2020 As of December 31, 2019 (in millions) Unhedged portion of equity investment in international subsidiaries and foreign currency denominated investments in domestic general account portfolio 3,490 (349) 4,834 (483) Table of Contents As a U.S.-based company with significant business operations outside of the U.S., particularly in Japan, we are exposed to For our international insurance operations, changes in foreign currency exchange rates create risk that we may experience For our domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our U.S. insurance operations and other proprietary We manage our foreign currency exchange rate risks within specified limits, and estimate our exposure, excluding equity in our For additional information, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We use derivative financial instruments primarily to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign Our derivatives also include interest rate guarantees we provide on our synthetic GIC products. Synthetic GICs simulate the Hypothetical Fair Value Change in Hypothetical Fair Value Change in 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 199 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 200 425 living benefit features associated with our variable annuity products, as discussed in more detail in Market Risk Related to Certain Variable Annuity Products below. For additional information on our derivative activities, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Market Risk Related to Certain Variable Annuity Products used in the original pricing of these products, including capital markets assumptions, such as equity market returns, interest rates and market volatility and actuarial assumptions. For our capital markets assumptions, we manage our exposure to the risk created by capital markets fluctuations through a combination of product design elements, such as an automatic rebalancing element and inclusion of certain optional living benefits in our living benefits hedging program. In addition, we consider external reinsurance a form of risk mitigation as well as our capital hedge program. Certain variable annuity optional living benefit features are accounted for as embedded derivatives and recorded at fair value. The market risk sensitivities associated with U.S. GAAP values of both the embedded derivatives and the related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives are provided under Market Risk Related to Interest Rates and Market Risk Related to Equity Prices above. product design elements, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations by Segment U.S. Individual Solutions Division Individual Annuities above. Table of Contents Our derivatives also include those that are embedded in certain financial instruments, and primarily relate to certain optional The primary risk exposures of our variable annuity contracts relate to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions For additional information regarding our risk management strategies, including our living benefit hedging program and other 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 201 425 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 158 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 159 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 163 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 164 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 165 Consolidated Statements of Equity for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 166 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 167 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements: 10. Goodwill and Other Intangibles 242 11. Leases 244 12. Policyholders Liabilities 245 13. Certain Long-duration Contracts with Guarantees 247 14. Reinsurance 250 15. Closed Block 252 16. Income Taxes 255 17. Short-Term and Long-Term Debt 261 18. Employee Benefit Plans 269 19. Equity 278 20. Earnings Per Share 286 21. Share-based Payments 288 22. Segment Information 292 23. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities 303 24. Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited) 310 25. Subsequent Events 311 Table of Contents 1. Business and Basis of Presentation 169 2. Significant Accounting Policies and Pronouncements 171 3. Investments 191 4. Variable Interest Entities 209 5. Derivatives and Hedging 211 6. Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities 221 7. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs 241 8. Value of Business Acquired 241 9. Investments in Operating Joint Ventures 242 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TABLE OF CONTENTS 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 202 425 establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness, as of December 31, 2020, of the Company s internal control over financial reporting, based on the framework established in Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ). Based on our assessment under that framework, management concluded that the Company s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2020. principal financial officers to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and the directors of the Company and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report appearing herein. February 19, 2021 Table of Contents Management of Prudential Financial, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the Company ) is responsible for Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by or under the supervision of our principal executive and Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, has been audited by Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 203 425 To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Prudential Financial, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting subsidiaries (the Company ) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, including the related notes and financial statement schedules listed in the index appearing under Item 15.2 (collectively referred to as the consolidated financial statements ). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ). position of the Company as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. credit losses on certain financial assets reported at amortized cost, certain off-balance sheet exposures, and impairments for fixed maturities, available-for-sale in 2020, the manner in which it accounts for leases in 2019, and the manner in which it accounts for certain financial assets and liabilities and the manner in which it accounts for certain tax effects originally recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income in 2018. Basis for Opinions control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on the Company s consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ( PCAOB ) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and Table of Contents We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position of Prudential Financial, Inc. and its In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial Changes in Accounting Principles As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 204 425 dispositions of the assets of the company (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Critical Audit Matters statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate. Valuation of Guaranteed Benefit Features Associated with Certain Life and Annuity Products Included in the Liability for Future Policy Benefits contracts which contain guaranteed benefit features. Certain of the guarantees associated with these contracts are accounted for as embedded derivatives and recorded at fair value. As of December 31, 2020, the fair value of the obligations associated with these guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives was 18.9 billion. As there is no observable active market for the transfer of these obligations, the valuations are calculated by management using internally-developed models with option pricing techniques. The models are based on a risk neutral valuation framework and incorporate premiums for risks inherent in valuation techniques, inputs, and the general uncertainty around the timing and amount of future cash flows. The significant inputs to the valuation models for these embedded derivatives include capital market assumptions, such as interest rate levels and volatility assumptions, the Company s market-perceived non-performance risk under the contract, as well as actuarially determined assumptions, including mortality rates, lapse rates, benefit utilization rates and withdrawal rates. For certain life insurance and annuity products that include certain other contract features, including guaranteed minimum death benefits ( GMDB ) and no-lapse guarantees, additional policyholder liabilities are established when associated assessments are recognized. The liability for no-lapse guarantee features is grouped with GMDB features in Note 13. As of December 31, 2020, the additional liability for these contract features included in the liability for future policy benefits was 10.4 billion. As disclosed by management, this liability is established using current best estimate assumptions, including mortality rates, lapse rates, benefit utilization rates, withdrawal rates, and premium pattern rates, as well as interest rate and equity market return assumptions, and is based on the ratio of the present value of total expected excess payments (i.e., payments in excess of account value) over the life of the contract divided by the present value of total expected assessments (i.e., benefit ratio). The liability equals the current benefit ratio multiplied by cumulative assessments recognized to date, plus interest, less cumulative excess payments to date. features associated with certain life and annuity products included in the liability for future policy benefits is a critical audit matter are (i) the significant judgment by management to determine the valuation model for the benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives in light of the valuation objective (fair value) given the lack of an observable market for these guarantees and to determine the aforementioned assumptions for the guaranteed benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives and additional policyholder liabilities, (ii) a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence relating to the model for embedded derivatives recorded at fair value and the aforementioned assumptions used in the valuation of the liabilities for the guaranteed benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives and additional policyholder liabilities, and (iii) the audit effort involved the use of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge. opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to the valuation of guaranteed benefit features associated with certain life and annuity products included in the liability for future policy benefits, including controls over the model for the benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives and development of the assumptions used in the valuation of the liabilities for the guaranteed benefit features accounted for as Table of Contents Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial As described in Notes 2, 6, 12 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company issues certain variable annuity The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the valuation of guaranteed benefit Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 205 425 embedded derivatives and additional policyholder liabilities. These procedures also included, among others, testing management s process for determining the valuation of guaranteed benefit features associated with certain life and annuity products included in the liability for future policy benefits, which included the involvement of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge to assist in (i) evaluating the appropriateness of management s models and (ii) evaluating the reasonableness of the aforementioned assumptions used in the valuation based on industry knowledge and data as well as historical Company data and experience. The procedures also included testing the completeness and accuracy of data used to develop the aforementioned assumptions and testing that the aforementioned assumptions are accurately reflected in the models. Valuation of the Deferred Acquisition Costs Related to Universal Life and Variable Life Products and Fixed and Variable Deferred Annuity Products to the successful acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity business to the extent such costs are deemed recoverable from future profits. As of December 31, 2020, a significant portion of the 19 billion of deferred policy acquisition costs ( DAC ) are associated with certain universal and variable life products and fixed and variable deferred annuity products. DAC related to universal and variable life products and fixed and variable deferred annuity products is generally amortized over the expected life of the contracts in proportion to gross profits arising principally from investment margins, mortality and expense margins, and surrender charges. These margins are updated periodically based on historical and anticipated future experience. Gross profits also include impacts from the embedded derivatives associated with certain of the optional living benefit features of variable annuity contracts. The DAC balance is regularly adjusted with a corresponding charge or credit to current period earnings for the impact of actual gross profits and changes in management s projections of estimated future gross profits. DAC is subject to periodic recoverability testing. universal life and variable life products and fixed and variable deferred annuity products is a critical audit matter are (i) the significant judgment by management to determine the assumptions used in the projection of gross profits used to amortize DAC related to mortality rates, lapse rates, benefit utilization rates, withdrawal rates, and premium pattern rates, as well as interest rate and equity market return assumptions (collectively, the significant assumptions ) (ii) a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence relating to the significant assumptions, and (iii) the audit effort involved the use of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge. opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to the valuation of DAC related to universal life and variable life products and fixed and variable deferred annuity products, including controls over the development of the significant assumptions. These procedures also included, among others, testing management s process for determining the valuation of DAC related to universal life and variable life products and fixed and variable deferred annuity products, which included the involvement of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge to assist in (i) evaluating the appropriateness of management s models and (ii) evaluating the reasonableness of the significant assumptions used in the valuation based on industry knowledge and data as well as historical Company data and experience. The procedures also included testing the completeness and accuracy of data used to develop the assumptions and testing that the assumptions are accurately reflected in the models. Goodwill Impairment Assessment Assurance IQ Reporting Unit as of December 31, and more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The Company s consolidated goodwill balance was 3.0 billion as of December 31, 2020, and the goodwill associated with the Assurance IQ reporting unit was 2.1 billion. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, the applicable goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. As disclosed by management, a quantitative impairment assessment of the goodwill allocated to Assurance IQ was performed as of December 31, 2020. The estimated fair value of Assurance IQ was based on weighting the results of a discounted cash flow approach and a market approach based on sales, EBITDA and earnings multiples. In determining the fair value of a reporting unit, management is required to make significant estimates including, but not limited to: projected revenues and operating margins, applicable discount and growth rates, and comparative market multiples. of the Assurance IQ reporting unit is a critical audit matter are (i) the significant judgment by management to Table of Contents As described in Notes 2 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company defers acquisition costs that relate directly The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the valuation of DAC related to Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall As described in Notes 2 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company tests goodwill for impairment annually, The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the goodwill impairment assessment 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 206 425 determine the fair value measurement of the reporting unit (ii) a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity, and effort in performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence related to projected revenues and operating margins, discount rates, and comparative market multiples (collectively, the significant assumptions ) and (iii) the audit effort involved the use of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge. opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to management s goodwill impairment assessment related to the Assurance IQ reporting unit, including controls over the significant assumptions. These procedures also included, among others, (i) testing management s process for determining the fair value estimate (ii) evaluating the appropriateness of the approaches, and (iii) evaluating the significant assumptions used by management by considering the consistency of the assumptions with the current and past performance of the reporting unit, the consistency with external market and industry data, and whether these assumptions were consistent with evidence obtained in other areas of the audit, and (iv) testing the completeness and accuracy of underlying data used in the approaches. Professionals with specialized skill and knowledge were used to assist in the evaluation of the appropriateness of the approaches used in the impairment assessment models and reasonableness of the discount rates and comparative market multiples assumptions. s PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP New York, New York February 19, 2021 reporting requirements. Table of Contents Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall We have served as the Company s auditor since 1996, which includes periods before the Company became subject to SEC 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 207 425 (1) See Note 4 for details of balances associated with variable interest entities. ASSETS Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value (allowance for credit losses: 2020- 133) (amortized cost: Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity, at amortized cost (net of allowance for credit losses: 2020- 9) (fair value: Fixed maturities, trading, at fair value (amortized cost: 2020- 3,670 2019- 3,917)(1) 3,914 3,884 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, at fair value(1) 24,115 21,597 Equity securities, at fair value (cost: 2020- 5,968 2019- 5,560)(1) 8,135 7,522 Commercial mortgage and other loans (net of 235 and 121 allowance for credit losses includes 1,092 and 228 of Policy loans 11,271 12,096 Other invested assets (2020-net of 2 allowance for credit losses includes 6,407 and 5,646 of assets measured at fair Short-term investments (2020-net of 1 allowance for credit losses) 7,800 5,467 Cash and cash equivalents(1) 13,701 16,327 Accrued investment income(1) 3,193 3,330 Deferred policy acquisition costs(2) 19,027 19,912 Value of business acquired 1,103 1,110 Other assets (2020-net of 11 allowance for credit losses)(1)(2) 22,801 20,832 Separate account assets 327,277 312,281 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY LIABILITIES Future policy benefits 306,343 293,527 Policyholders account balances 161,682 152,110 Policyholders dividends(2) 9,524 6,988 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 10,894 9,681 Cash collateral for loaned securities 3,499 4,213 Income taxes(2) 12,022 11,378 Short-term debt 925 1,933 Long-term debt 19,718 18,646 Other liabilities (2020-net of 20 allowance for credit losses)(1)(2) 20,323 20,802 Notes issued by consolidated variable interest entities (includes 0 and 800 measured at fair value under the fair value Separate account liabilities 327,277 312,281 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES (See Note 23) EQUITY Preferred Stock ( 0.01 par value 10,000,000 shares authorized none issued) 0 0 Common Stock ( 0.01 par value 1,500,000,000 shares authorized 666,305,189 shares issued as of both December 31, Additional paid-in capital 25,584 25,532 Common Stock held in treasury, at cost (269,867,738 and 267,472,781 shares at December 31, 2020 and 2019, Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 30,738 24,039 Retained earnings 30,749 32,991 Noncontrolling interests 785 604 (2) December 31, 2020 amounts include the impacts of the January 1, 2020 adoption of ASU 2016-13. See Note 2 for details. 2020- 354,470 2019- 346,574)(1) 412,905 391,096 2020- 2,298 2019- 2,302)(1)(2) 1,930 1,933 loans measured at fair value under the fair value option at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively)(1)(2) 65,425 63,559 value at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively)(1)(2) 18,125 15,606 option as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively)(1) 305 1,274 2020 and 2019) 6 6 respectively) (19,652) (19,453) TOTAL ASSETS 940,722 896,552 Total Prudential Financial, Inc. equity 67,425 63,115 Total equity 68,210 63,719 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 940,722 896,552 Table of Contents Total investments 553,620 522,760 Total liabilities 872,512 832,833 December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in millions, except share amounts) Consolidated Statements of Financial Position See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 208 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 209 425 REVENUES Premiums 31,140 34,202 35,779 Policy charges and fee income 6,029 5,978 6,002 Net investment income 17,410 17,585 16,176 Asset management and service fees 4,391 4,239 4,100 Other income (loss) 1,950 3,262 (1,042) Realized investment gains (losses), net (3,887) (459) 1,977 BENEFITS AND EXPENSES Policyholders benefits 35,059 36,820 39,404 Interest credited to policyholders account balances 4,538 4,880 3,196 Dividends to policyholders 1,625 2,274 1,336 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 2,221 2,332 2,273 General and administrative expenses 13,913 13,416 11,949 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF OPERATING JOINT INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF OPERATING JOINT VENTURES (242) 4,138 4,012 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes 96 100 76 NET INCOME (LOSS) (146) 4,238 4,088 Less: Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 228 52 14 NET INCOME (LOSS) ATTRIBUTABLE TO PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. (374) 4,186 4,074 EARNINGS PER SHARE VENTURES (323) 5,085 4,834 Total revenues 57,033 64,807 62,992 Total benefits and expenses 57,356 59,722 58,158 Basic earnings per share-Common Stock: Diluted earnings per share-Common Stock: Dividends declared per share of Common Stock 4.40 4.00 3.60 Table of Contents Total income tax expense (benefit) (81) 947 822 Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. (1.00) 10.23 9.64 Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. (1.00) 10.11 9.50 Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in millions, except per share amounts) See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Operations PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 210 425 NET INCOME (LOSS) (146) 4,238 4,088 Other comprehensive income (loss), before tax: Other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes 6,710 13,129 (6,969) Comprehensive income (loss) 6,564 17,367 (2,881) Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. 6,325 17,312 (2,900) Foreign currency translation adjustments for the period 523 67 (68) Net unrealized investment gains (losses) 7,229 17,195 (8,393) Defined benefit pension and postretirement unrecognized periodic benefit (cost) 210 (322) (320) Less: Income tax expense (benefit) related to other comprehensive income (loss) 1,252 3,811 (1,812) Less: Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 239 55 19 Table of Contents Total 7,962 16,940 (8,781) Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in millions) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 211 425 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in millions) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Consolidated Statements of Equity 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 212 425 (1) Includes the impact from the adoption of ASU 2017-08 and 2017-12. Cumulative accounting update ASU Cumulative accounting update ASU 2018-02 (1,653) 1,653 0 0 Common Stock acquired (1,500) (1,500) (1,500) Contributions from noncontrolling Distributions to noncontrolling Stock-based compensation Dividends declared on Common Comprehensive income: Total comprehensive income (loss) (2,900) 19 (2,881) Cumulative effect of adoption of Common Stock acquired (2,500) (2,500) (2,500) Exchangeable Surplus Notes Assurance IQ acquisition 79 375 454 454 Contributions from noncontrolling Distributions to noncontrolling Consolidations (deconsolidations) Stock-based compensation Dividends declared on Common Comprehensive income: Total comprehensive income (loss) 17,312 55 17,367 Cumulative effect of adoption of Common Stock acquired (500) (500) (500) Contributions from noncontrolling Distributions to noncontrolling Consolidations (deconsolidations) Stock-based compensation Dividends declared on Common Comprehensive income: Total comprehensive income (loss) 6,325 239 6,564 (2) Includes the impact from the adoption of ASU 2016-13. See Note 2. Balance, December 31, 2017 6 24,769 28,671 (16,284) 17,074 54,236 275 54,511 2016-01 904 (847) 57 57 interests 147 147 interests (27) (27) programs 59 191 250 250 Stock (1,526) (1,526) (1,526) Balance, December 31, 2018 6 24,828 30,470 (17,593) 10,906 48,617 414 49,031 accounting changes(1) (21) 7 (14) (14) conversion 502 502 502 interests 208 208 interests (82) (82) of noncontrolling interests 9 9 programs 123 265 388 388 Stock (1,644) (1,644) (1,644) Balance, December 31, 2019 6 25,532 32,991 (19,453) 24,039 63,115 604 63,719 accounting changes(2) (99) (99) (99) interests 100 100 interests (53) (53) of noncontrolling interests (105) (105) programs 52 301 353 353 Stock (1,769) (1,769) (1,769) Balance, December 31, 2020 6 25,584 30,749 (19,652) 30,738 67,425 785 68,210 Net income (loss) 4,074 4,074 14 4,088 Other comprehensive income Net income (loss) 4,186 4,186 52 4,238 Other comprehensive income Net income (loss) (374) (374) 228 (146) Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax (6,974) (6,974) 5 (6,969) (loss), net of tax 13,126 13,126 3 13,129 (loss), net of tax 6,699 6,699 11 6,710 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Additional Paid-in Capital Retained Earnings Stock Held In Treasury Comprehensive Income (Loss) Accumulated Financial, Inc. Prudential Noncontrolling Total Equity 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 213 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 214 425 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in millions) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 215 425 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net income (loss) (146) 4,238 4,088 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities: CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from the sale maturity prepayment of: Payments for the purchase origination of: Acquisitions, net of cash acquired 0 (1,755) 0 Dispositions, net of cash disposed 1,454 0 0 Derivatives, net 1,286 1,047 26 Other, net (278) (437) (188) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Policyholders account deposits 41,424 27,485 28,791 Policyholders account withdrawals (34,701) (26,662) (27,287) Net change in securities sold under agreements to repurchase and cash collateral for loaned securities 499 16 1,125 Cash dividends paid on Common Stock (1,766) (1,641) (1,521) Net change in financing arrangements (maturities 90 days or less) (21) (181) 199 Common Stock acquired (500) (2,500) (1,500) Common Stock reissued for exercise of stock options 153 133 132 Proceeds from the issuance of debt (maturities longer than 90 days) 3,013 2,993 2,934 Repayments of debt (maturities longer than 90 days) (2,743) (1,429) (1,810) Proceeds from notes issued by consolidated VIEs 0 971 0 Repayments of notes issued by consolidated VIEs (19) (638) 0 Other, net (456) (181) (282) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash balances 340 16 142 NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, RESTRICTED CASH AND RESTRICTED CASH EQUIVALENTS (2,619) 979 959 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, RESTRICTED CASH AND RESTRICTED CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF YEAR 16,474 15,495 14,536 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, RESTRICTED CASH AND RESTRICTED CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF YEAR 13,855 16,474 15,495 Realized investment (gains) losses, net 3,887 459 (1,977) Policy charges and fee income (2,652) (2,616) (2,248) Interest credited to policyholders account balances 4,538 4,880 3,196 Depreciation and amortization 457 460 161 (Gains) losses on assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, net (743) (971) 863 Change in: Fixed maturities, available-for-sale 44,106 52,306 59,675 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity 88 100 94 Fixed maturities, trading 690 363 623 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities 29,162 15,281 27,383 Equity securities 2,704 2,708 3,771 Commercial mortgage and other loans 5,447 6,525 6,474 Policy loans 2,528 2,279 2,309 Other invested assets 1,815 1,783 1,549 Short-term investments 47,339 38,095 33,846 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale (56,523) (64,570) (77,234) Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity 0 0 (9) Fixed maturities, trading (1,413) (876) (1,080) Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities (30,822) (14,613) (27,315) Equity securities (3,168) (2,813) (3,254) Commercial mortgage and other loans (6,107) (10,677) (10,328) Policy loans (1,956) (1,931) (1,970) Other invested assets (2,760) (2,557) (2,664) Short-term investments (49,802) (37,286) (33,336) Deferred policy acquisition costs (542) (634) (597) Future policy benefits and other insurance liabilities 10,817 10,992 16,481 Income taxes (424) (339) 49 Derivatives, net (2,940) 1,485 968 Other, net (3,884) 1,671 680 Cash flows from (used in) operating activities 8,368 19,625 21,664 Cash flows from (used in) investing activities (16,210) (17,028) (21,628) Cash flows from (used in) financing activities 4,883 (1,634) 781 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 216 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 217 425 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION Income taxes paid, net of refunds 287 1,348 760 Interest paid 1,531 1,521 1,443 NON-CASH TRANSACTIONS DURING THE YEAR Treasury Stock shares issued for stock-based compensation programs 151 197 138 Conversion of surplus notes into Common Stock 0 502 0 Significant Pension Risk Transfer transactions: Acquisitions: RECONCILIATION TO STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION Cash and cash equivalents 13,701 16,327 15,353 Restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents (included in Other assets ) 154 147 142 Total cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents 13,855 16,474 15,495 Assets received, excluding cash and cash equivalents 703 3,166 816 Liabilities assumed 1,049 4,332 8,395 Assets acquired, excluding cash and cash equivalents 0 2,425 0 Liabilities assumed 0 216 0 Treasury Stock shares issued 0 454 0 Table of Contents Net cash received 346 1,166 7,579 Net cash paid on acquisition 0 1,755 0 Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in millions) See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 218 425 Table of Contents 1. BUSINESS AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION provide a wide range of insurance, investment management, and other financial products and services to both individual and institutional customers throughout the United States and in many other countries. Principal products and services provided include life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds and investment management. Businesses (consisting of the U.S. Workplace Solutions, U.S. Individual Solutions, and Assurance IQ divisions), the International Businesses, the Closed Block division, and the Company s Corporate and Other operations. The U.S. Workplace Solutions division consists of the Retirement and Group Insurance businesses, the U.S. Individual Solutions division consists of the Individual Annuities and Individual Life businesses, and the Assurance IQ division consists of the Assurance IQ business, which the Company acquired in October 2019. The Closed Block division is accounted for as a divested business that is reported separately from the Divested and Run-off Businesses that are included in Corporate and Other. The Company s Corporate and Other operations include corporate items and initiatives that are not allocated to business segments and businesses that have been or will be divested or placed in run-off, excluding the Closed Block division. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for revenues, income and loss, and total assets by segment. Basis of Presentation United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ). The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Prudential Financial, entities over which the Company exercises control, including majority-owned subsidiaries and minority-owned entities such as limited partnerships in which the Company is the general partner and variable interest entities ( VIEs ) in which the Company is considered the primary beneficiary. See Note 4 for additional information on the Company s consolidated variable interest entities. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use of Estimates assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. amortization policyholders account balances related to the fair value of embedded derivative instruments associated with the index- linked features of certain universal life and annuity products value of business acquired ( VOBA ) and its amortization amortization of deferred sales inducements ( DSI ) measurement of goodwill and any related impairment valuation of investments including derivatives, measurement of allowance for credit losses, and the recognition of other-than-temporary impairments ( OTTI ) future policy benefits including guarantees pension and other postretirement benefits provision for income taxes and valuation of deferred tax assets and accruals for contingent liabilities, including estimates for losses in connection with unresolved legal and regulatory matters. disruption in the global economy and financial markets, and has adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, the Company s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Due to the highly uncertain nature of these conditions, it is not possible to estimate the ultimate impacts at this time. The risks may have manifested, and may continue to manifest, in the Company s financial statements in the areas of, among others, i) investments: increased risk of loss on our investments due to default or deterioration in credit quality or value ii) insurance liabilities and related balances: potential changes to assumptions regarding investment returns, mortality, morbidity and policyholder behavior which are reflected in our insurance liabilities and certain related balances (e.g., DAC, VOBA, etc.) and iii) goodwill: the macroeconomic environment may also result in the need to recognize an impairment of goodwill which could negatively impact the Company s results of operations and financial condition. The Company cannot predict what impact the COVID-19 pandemic will ultimately have on the global economy, markets or its businesses. Prudential Financial, Inc. ( Prudential Financial or PFI ) and its subsidiaries (collectively, Prudential or the Company ) The Company s principal operations are composed of PGIM (the Company s global investment management business), the U.S. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and The most significant estimates include those used in determining deferred policy acquisition costs ( DAC ) and related Beginning in the first quarter of 2020, the outbreak of the novel coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) has resulted in extreme stress and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 219 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 220 425 Table of Contents Reclassifications Acquisitions subsidiary of the Company and the results of the Assurance IQ business are reported as a separate segment within the Company s U.S. Businesses. Assurance IQ Contingent Consideration Liability below). The amount paid at closing comprised 1,758 million in cash and 454 million in shares of restricted Prudential Financial Common Stock and other equity awards. In addition to the purchase consideration, the Company also granted approximately 160 million of cash and equity awards to Assurance IQ employees which are recognized as compensation expense over their requisite service periods. See Note 21 for further details on the equity awards issued as part of the transaction. cash and 75% Prudential Financial Common Stock, contingent upon Assurance IQ s achievement of certain targets for gross revenues net of associated selling expenses ( Variable Profits ) over the period from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2022 as follows: requiring it to take or refrain from taking certain actions, including with respect to the management and operation of Assurance IQ. determined based on a price per share of 83.71, which is equal to the weighted average price of Prudential Financial Common Stock for the 15 trading days before, and 15 trading days beginning on, September 4, 2019, the date of the merger agreement. The foregoing 454 million in shares of restricted Prudential Financial Common Stock and equity awards paid at closing was based on the 87.67 closing price per share of Prudential Financial Common Stock on the closing date. date. Total assets acquired included identified intangible assets of 191 million. At the time of acquisition, the Company recognized an asset for goodwill, determined as the excess of the purchase price over the net fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, that amounted to 2,128 million, which is fully deductible for tax purposes. The value of the components within goodwill include expected revenue and cost synergies, the business model, technology capabilities, new customers, and the assembled workforce and key personnel. The valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed was preliminary at the time of acquisition. In April 2020, the Company revised its purchase price allocation and adjusted the goodwill asset to 2,140 million. See Note 2 and Note 10 for additional information regarding goodwill. value of expected payments under the arrangement, using an internally-developed option pricing model based on a number of assumptions, including certain unobservable assumptions for future Variable Profits and the future price of Prudential Financial Common Stock. The fair value of the liability is updated each reporting period, with changes in fair value reported within Other income. The fair value of the contingent consideration liability was zero and 105 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively (see Note 6 for additional information). The stock-based component of contingent Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. In October 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of Assurance IQ, as noted above. Assurance IQ is a wholly-owned The total purchase consideration included 2,212 million paid at closing, and 100 million of contingent consideration (see The contingent consideration as well as additional compensation awards are payable in 2023 in a mix of approximately 25% If Variable Profits are less than 900 million, no additional amount is payable. If Variable Profits are greater than 1,300 million, an additional amount of 1,150 million is payable. If Variable Profits are greater than 900 million but less than or equal to 1,300 million, an additional amount is payable equal to the product of (i) the quotient of (A) an amount equal to (1) Variable Profits achieved minus (2) 900 million divided by (B) 400 million and (ii) 1,150 million. Payment of the additional amount may be accelerated if the Company violates certain provisions of the merger agreement Pursuant to the merger agreement, the number of shares of Prudential Financial Common Stock issued at closing was The assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been included in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of the acquisition Assurance IQ Contingent Consideration Liability The contingent consideration liability referred to above is reported at fair value. Fair value is determined based on the present Assurance IQ Net Assets Acquired Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 221 425 Table of Contents consideration impacts the share count for purposes of calculating the Company s diluted earnings per share when Assurance IQ s actual Variable Profits achieved as of the end of the reporting period is in excess of 900 million, as if the contingent consideration performance period ended on the applicable reporting date. The number of shares issued as part of the contingent consideration payable in 2023 will be based on a 83.71 price per share. Dispositions completed the sale of The Prudential Life Insurance Company of Korea, Ltd. ( POK ) to KB Financial Group Inc., for cash consideration of approximately 2.3 trillion, equal to approximately 1.9 billion. The Company recognized an approximate 800 million after-tax loss on the transaction in 2020. Holding Co, Ltd. (the Buyer ), pursuant to which PIIH has agreed to sell to the Buyer all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Prudential Life Insurance Company of Taiwan Inc. ( POT ), the Company s insurance business in Taiwan. This transaction consists of cash consideration of approximately NT 5.5 billion, equal to approximately 195 million at current exchange rates, to be paid at closing, and contingent consideration with a fair value of approximately 15 million as of December 31, 2020. The fair value of the contingent consideration is tied to the level of yields for the 10-year Taiwanese Government bond two years after the signing of the transaction and can result in a maximum payout of 100 million if yields increase by 40 basis points. transaction to close in 2021, subject to regulatory approval and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. 350 million after-tax charge to earnings to adjust the carrying value of POT to the fair market value reflected in the purchase price. The ultimate after-tax loss will be based on balances at the closing date and could vary materially from the charge recorded in 2020. The Company intends to use the proceeds of the transaction for general corporate purposes. 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND PRONOUNCEMENTS that are carried at fair value. See Note 6 for additional information regarding the determination of fair value. The purchased cost of fixed maturities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity or, if applicable, call date. basis of the security is recoverable. For mortgage-backed and asset-backed AFS debt securities, a credit impairment will be recognized to the extent the amortized cost exceeds the net present value of projected future cash flows (the net present value ) for the security. For all other AFS debt securities, qualitative factors are first considered including, but not limited to, the extent of the decline and the reasons for the decline in value (e.g., credit events, currency or interest-rate related, including general credit spread widening), and the financial condition of the issuer. If analysis of these qualitative factors results in the security needing to be impaired, the credit impairment will be measured as the extent to which the amortized cost exceeds the net present value. The net present value is calculated by discounting the Company s best estimate of projected future cash flows at the effective interest rate implicit in the AFS debt security at the date of acquisition. Once the Company has deemed all or a portion of the amortized cost uncollectible, the allowance is removed from the balance sheet by writing down the amortized cost basis of the AFS debt security. The Prudential Life Insurance Company of Korea, Ltd. In August 2020, Prudential International Insurance Holdings, Ltd. ( PIIH ), a subsidiary of Prudential Financial, successfully Prudential Life Insurance Company of Taiwan Inc. In August 2020, PIIH entered into a Share Purchase Agreement (the Share Purchase Agreement ) with Taishin Financial The Share Purchase Agreement contains customary warranties and covenants of PIIH and the Buyer. The Company expects the As of December 31, 2020, the Company is reporting its investment in POT as held for sale and recognized an estimated Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value ( AFS debt securities ) includes bonds, notes and redeemable preferred stock AFS debt securities, where fair value is below amortized cost, are reviewed quarterly to determine whether the amortized cost Credit impairment is recognized as an allowance for credit losses and reported in Realized investment gains (losses), net. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 222 425 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements in this Note for additional information about the adoption. Prior to the adoption of ASU 2016- 13, credit impairments were recognized as a direct write down to the cost basis of the security. the effective yield method. Prepayment premiums are also included in Net investment income. and effective yield of the securities are adjusted as necessary to reflect historical prepayment experience and changes in estimated future prepayments. The adjustments to amortized cost are recorded as a charge or credit to Net investment income in accordance with the retrospective method. any changes in the estimated timing and amount of cash flows unless the investment is purchased with credit deterioration or an allowance is currently recorded for the respective security. If an investment is impaired, any changes in the estimated timing and amount of cash flows will be recorded as the credit impairment, as opposed to a yield adjustment. If the asset is purchased with credit deterioration (or previously impaired), the effective yield will be adjusted if there are favorable changes in cash flows subsequent to the allowance being reduced to zero. Prior to the adoption of ASU 2016-13, the effective yield was adjusted prospectively unless an impairment was recorded in the current period. assets backing a particular security, including interest rate and prepayment assumptions based on data from widely accepted third- party data sources or internal estimates. In addition to interest rate and prepayment assumptions, cash flow estimates also include other assumptions regarding the underlying collateral including default rates and recoveries, which vary based on the asset type and geographic location, as well as the vintage year of the security. These assumptions can significantly impact income recognition and the amount of impairment recognized in earnings and other comprehensive income (loss) ( OCI ). The payment priority of the respective security is also considered. For all other AFS debt securities, cash flow estimates are driven by assumptions regarding probability of default and estimates regarding timing and amount of recoveries associated with a default. The Company has developed these estimates using information based on its historical experience as well as using market observable data, such as industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings and other data relevant to the collectability of a security, such as the general payment terms of the security and the security s position within the capital structure of the issuer. security is dependent on the liquidation of collateral for recovery of its investment. If the net present value is less than the amortized cost of the investment, an allowance for losses is recognized in earnings for the difference between amortized cost and the net present value and is limited to the difference between amortized cost and fair value of the AFS debt security. Any difference between the fair value and the net present value of the debt security at the impairment measurement date remains in OCI. Changes in the allowance for losses are reported in Realized investment gains (losses), net. security, or (2) it is more likely than not the Company will be required to sell the AFS debt security before its anticipated recovery, the amortized cost basis of the AFS debt security is written down to fair value and any previously recognized allowance is reversed. The impairment is reported in Realized investment gains (losses), net. policyholders account balances and policyholders dividends that would result from the realization of unrealized gains and losses, are included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( AOCI ). Each of these balances is discussed in greater detail below. to hold to maturity, and are carried at amortized cost, net of the current expected credit loss ( CECL ) allowance ( HTM debt securities ). Interest income for HTM debt securities is computed in the same manner as interest income for AFS debt securities, both prior to and after the adoption of ASU 2016-13. determined based on probability of default and loss given default assumptions according to sector, credit quality and remaining The Company adopted Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2016-13, and related ASUs, effective January 1, 2020. See Interest income, including amortization of premium and accretion of discount, are included in Net investment income under Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity, at amortized cost includes bonds that the Company has both the positive intent and ability Credit impairment for HTM debt securities is recorded through a CECL allowance. The CECL allowance is generally For high credit quality mortgage-backed and asset-backed AFS debt securities (those rated AA or above), the amortized cost For mortgage-backed and asset-backed AFS debt securities rated below AA, the effective yield is adjusted prospectively for For mortgage-backed and asset-backed AFS debt securities, cash flow estimates consider the payment terms of the underlying The Company may use the estimated fair value of collateral, if any, as a proxy for the net present value if it believes that the When an AFS debt security s fair value is below amortized cost and (1) the Company has the intent to sell the AFS debt The associated unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, and the effect on DAC, VOBA, DSI, future policy benefits, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 223 425 Table of Contents time to maturity. Changes in the allowance are reported in Realized investment gains (losses), net. Once the Company has deemed all or a portion of the amortized cost uncollectible, the uncollectible portion of the allowance is removed from the balance sheet by writing down the amortized cost basis of the security. Prior to the adoption of ASU 2016-13, credit impairments were recognized as a direct write down to the cost basis of the security and the credit impairment recognized was measured based upon the net present value of expected cash flows. The determination of the allowance considers historical credit loss experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. The allowance is calculated separately for each HTM debt security. adjusted for prepayment considerations, current and historical interest rate assumptions, and other factors influencing the Company s view of the current stage of the economic cycle and future economic conditions. Subjective considerations include a review of whether historical loss experience is representative of current market conditions and the Company s view of the credit cycle. Model assumptions and factors are reviewed and updated as appropriate. assets contained within consolidated variable interest entities. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on these investments are reported in Other income (loss), and interest and dividend income from these investments is reported in Net investment income. maturities, equity securities, short-term investments and cash equivalents, that support certain products included in the Retirement and International Businesses segments which are experience-rated, meaning that the investment results associated with these products are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. Realized and unrealized gains and losses for these investments are reported in Other income (loss). Interest and dividend income from these investments is reported in Net investment income. carried at fair value. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on these investments are reported in Other income (loss), and dividend income is reported in Net investment income on the ex-dividend date. Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Liabilities using a modified retrospective method. Adoption of this ASU impacted the Company s accounting and presentation related to equity investments. The most significant impact is that the changes in fair value of equity securities previously classified as available-for-sale are reported in net income within Other income (loss) in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of this standard resulted in an increase to retained earnings of 904 million, a reduction to AOCI of 847 million, and an increase to equity of 57 million upon adoption on January 1, 2018. residential properties, as well as certain other collateralized and uncollateralized loans. Loans backed by residential properties primarily include recourse loans held by the Company s international insurance operations. Uncollateralized loans primarily represent reverse dual currency loans and corporate loans held by the Company s international insurance operations. of unamortized deferred loan origination fees and expenses, and net of the CECL allowance. Certain off-balance sheet credit exposures (e.g., indemnification of serviced mortgage loans, and certain unfunded mortgage loan commitments where the Company cannot unconditionally cancel the commitment) are also subject to a CECL allowance. See Note 23 for additional information. fair value where the fair value option has been elected. Loans held for sale where the Company has not elected the fair value option are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. Commercial mortgage and other loans acquired, including those related to the acquisition of a business, are recorded at fair value when purchased, reflecting any premiums or discounts to unpaid principal balances. Interest income, and the amortization of the related premiums or discounts, are included in Net investment income under the effective yield method. Prepayment fees are also included in Net investment income. Key inputs to the CECL model include unpaid principal balances, credit ratings, annual expected loss factors, average life Fixed maturities, trading, at fair value consists of fixed maturities with embedded features that are considered derivatives and Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, at fair value includes invested assets that consist of fixed Equity securities, at fair value is comprised of common stock, mutual fund shares and non-redeemable preferred stock that are Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-01, Financial Instruments - Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Commercial mortgage and other loans consists of commercial mortgage loans, agricultural property loans, loans backed by Commercial mortgage and other loans originated and held for investment are generally carried at unpaid principal balance, net The Company carries certain commercial mortgage loans originated within the Company s commercial mortgage operations at The CECL allowance represents the Company s best estimate of expected credit losses over the remaining life of the assets. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 224 425 Table of Contents off-balance sheet credit exposures. The determination of the allowance considers historical credit loss experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. Prior to the adoption of ASU 2016-13, the allowance was based upon credit losses that were probable of occurring for recognized loans, not an estimate of credit losses that may occur over the remaining life of the asset. uncollateralized loans. For commercial mortgage and agricultural mortgage loans, the allowance is calculated using an internally developed CECL model. lives of the loans adjusted for prepayment considerations, current and historical interest rate assumptions, and other factors influencing the Company s view of the current stage of the economic cycle and future economic conditions. Subjective considerations include a review of whether historical loss experience is representative of current market conditions and the Company s view of the credit cycle. Model assumptions and factors are reviewed and updated as appropriate. Information about certain key inputs is detailed below. value and debt-service-coverage ratios. Other factors include amortization, loan term, and estimated market value growth rate and volatility for the property type and region. The loan-to-value ratio compares the carrying amount of the loan to the fair value of the underlying property or properties collateralizing the loan, and is commonly expressed as a percentage. Loan-to-value ratios greater than 100% indicate that the carrying amount of the loan exceeds the collateral value. A loan-to-value ratio less than 100% indicates an excess of collateral value over the carrying amount of the loan. The debt service coverage ratio is a property s net operating income as a percentage of its debt service payments. Debt service coverage ratios less than 1.0 times indicate that property operations do not generate enough income to cover the loan s current debt payments. A debt service coverage ratio greater than 1.0 times indicates an excess of net operating income over the debt service payments. The values utilized in calculating these ratios are developed as part of the Company s periodic review of the commercial mortgage loan and agricultural property loan portfolios, which includes an internal appraisal of the underlying collateral value. The Company s periodic review also includes a quality re-rating process, whereby the internal quality rating originally assigned at underwriting is updated based on current loan, property and market information using a proprietary quality rating system. See Note 3 for additional information related to the loan-to-value ratios and debt service coverage ratios related to the Company s commercial mortgage and agricultural loan portfolios. loss rates are converted into life-of-loan loss expectations. are removed from the pools and are evaluated individually for an allowance. The allowance is determined based on the outstanding loan balance less the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s effective interest rate or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. factors noted above. The change in allowance is reported in Realized investment gains (losses), net. As it relates to unfunded commitments that are in scope of this guidance, the CECL allowance is reported in Other liabilities, and the change in the allowance is reported in Realized investment gains (losses), net. determined based on probability of default and loss given default assumptions by sector, credit quality and average lives of the loans. Additions to, or releases of, the allowance are reported in Realized investment gains (losses), net. removed from the balance sheet by writing down the amortized cost basis of the loan. The carrying amount of the loan is not adjusted for subsequent recoveries in value. the Company s assessment as to the collectability of the principal. The Company defines past due as principal or The CECL allowance represents the Company s best estimate of expected credit losses over the remaining life of the assets or The allowance is calculated separately for commercial mortgage loans, agricultural mortgage loans, and other collateralized and Key inputs to the CECL model include unpaid principal balances, internal credit ratings, annual expected loss factors, average Annual expected loss rates are based on historical default and loss experience factors. Using average lives, the annual expected When individual loans no longer have the credit risk characteristics of the commercial or agricultural mortgage loan pools, they The CECL allowance on commercial mortgage and other loans can increase or decrease from period to period based on the The CECL allowance for other collateralized and uncollateralized loans (e.g., corporate loans) carried at amortized cost is Once the Company has deemed a portion of the amortized costs to be uncollectible, the uncollectible portion of allowance is Interest received on loans that are past due is either applied against the principal or reported as net investment income based on Key factors in determining the internal credit ratings for commercial mortgage and agricultural mortgage loans include loan-to- Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 225 425 Table of Contents interest not collected at least 30 days past the scheduled contractual due date. See Note 3 for additional information about the Company s past due loans. payments, or earlier when the Company has doubts about collectability. When the Company discontinues accruing interest on a loan, any accrued but uncollectible interest on the loan and other loans backed by the same collateral, if any, is charged against interest income in the same period. Generally, a loan is restored to accrual status only after all delinquent interest and principal are brought current and, in the case of loans where the payment of interest has been interrupted for a substantial period, or the loan has been modified, a regular payment performance has been established. restructurings generally include one or more of the following: full or partial payoffs outside of the original contract terms changes to interest rates extensions of maturity or additions or modifications to covenants. Additionally, the Company may accept assets in full or partial satisfaction of the debt as part of a TDR. When restructurings occur, they are evaluated individually to determine whether the restructuring or modification constitutes a TDR as defined by authoritative accounting guidance. If the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty and the Company has granted a concession, the restructuring, including those that involve a partial payoff or the receipt of assets in full satisfaction of the debt is deemed to be a TDR. When there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will execute a TDR, all effects of the potential restructuring are considered for the estimation of the CECL allowance. original effective yield, and the allowance is adjusted accordingly. The loan will be evaluated to determine whether the loan no longer has similar credit risk characteristics of the commercial or agricultural mortgage loan pools and need to be evaluated for an allowance on an individual basis. Subsequent to the modification, income is recognized prospectively based on the modified terms of the loan. down of the loan is recorded for the amount of the allowance, and any additional loss, net of recoveries, or any gain is recorded for the difference between the fair value of the assets received and the recorded investment in the loan. When assets are received in partial settlement, the same process is followed, and the remaining loan is evaluated prospectively for credit impairment based on the CECL allowance process noted above. sponsored entities ( GSEs ). The Company has agreed to indemnify the GSEs for a portion of the credit risk associated with certain of the mortgages it services. Management has established a CECL allowance that factors in historical loss information, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts. The allowance also considers the remaining lives of the loans subject to the indemnification. The CECL allowance is included in Other liabilities and changes in the CECL allowance are reported in Realized investment gains (losses), net. See Note 23 for additional information. Prior to the adoption of ASU 2016-13, a credit loss allowance was not required. carried at the unpaid principal balances due to the Company from the policyholders. Interest income on policy loans is recognized in Net investment income at the contract interest rate when earned. Policy loans are fully collateralized by the cash surrender value of the associated insurance policies. ( LPs LLCs ), other than operating joint ventures, as well as wholly-owned investment real estate, derivative assets and other investments. LPs LLCs interests are accounted for using either the equity method of accounting, or at fair value with changes in fair value reported in Other income (loss). The Company s income from investments in LPs LLCs accounted for using the equity method, other than the Company s investments in operating joint ventures, is included in Net investment income. The carrying value of these investments is written down, or impaired, to fair value when a decline in value is considered to be other-than- temporary. In applying the equity method (including assessment for OTTI), the Company uses financial information provided by the investee, generally on a one to three-month lag. The Company consolidates LPs LLCs in certain other instances where it is deemed to exercise control, or is considered the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity. See Note 4 for additional information about VIEs. production of income as well as real estate held for sale. Real estate which the Company has the intent to hold for the The Company discontinues accruing interest on loans after the loans become 90 days delinquent as to principal or interest Commercial mortgage and other loans are occasionally restructured in a troubled debt restructuring ( TDR ). These When a loan is modified in a TDR, the CECL allowance of the loan is remeasured using the modified terms and the loan s In a TDR where the Company receives assets in full satisfaction of the debt, any CECL allowance is reversed and a direct write- The Company s PGIM business provides commercial mortgage origination, underwriting and servicing for certain government Policy loans represent funds loaned to policyholders up to the cash surrender value of the associated insurance policies and are Other invested assets consists of the Company s non-coupon investments in limited partnerships and limited liability companies The Company s wholly-owned investment real estate consists of real estate which the Company has the intent to hold for the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 226 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 227 425 Table of Contents production of income is carried at depreciated cost less any write-downs to fair value for impairment losses and is reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Real estate held for sale is carried at the lower of depreciated cost or fair value less estimated selling costs and is not further depreciated once classified as such. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying value of the investment real estate exceeds the estimated undiscounted future cash flows (excluding interest charges) from the investment. At that time, the carrying value of the investment real estate is written down to fair value. Decreases in the carrying value of investment real estate held for the production of income due to OTTI are recorded in Realized investment gains (losses), net. Depreciation on real estate held for the production of income is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the properties and is included in Net investment income. than three months when purchased, other than those debt instruments meeting this definition that are included in Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, at fair value. These investments are generally carried at fair value or amortized cost that approximates fair value and include certain money market investments, funds managed similar to regulated money market funds, short-term debt securities issued by government-sponsored entities and other highly liquid debt instruments. Company s International Businesses portfolios, where the average cost method is used. Realized investment gains and losses are generated from numerous sources, including the sales of fixed maturity securities, investments in joint ventures and limited partnerships and other types of investments, as well as changes to the allowance for credit losses recognized in earnings. Realized investment gains and losses also reflect fair value changes on commercial mortgage loans carried at fair value, and fair value changes on embedded derivatives and free-standing derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. See Derivative Financial Instruments below for additional information regarding the accounting for derivatives. similar to regulated money market funds, other debt instruments with maturities of three months or less when purchased, other than cash equivalents that are included in Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, at fair value, and receivables related to securities purchased under agreements to resell (see also Securities sold under agreements to repurchase below). These assets are generally carried at fair value or amortized cost which approximates fair value. earned but not yet received. annuity business that have been deferred to the extent such costs are deemed recoverable from future profits. Such DAC primarily includes commissions, costs of policy issuance and underwriting, and certain other expenses that are directly related to successfully acquired contracts. In each reporting period, capitalized DAC is amortized to Amortization of DAC, net of the accrual of imputed interest on DAC balances. DAC is subject to periodic recoverability testing. DAC, for applicable products, is adjusted for the impact of unrealized gains or losses on investments as if these gains or losses had been realized, with corresponding credits or charges included in AOCI. the contracts in proportion to gross margins based on historical and anticipated future experience., Any changes in estimated gross margins on unamortized DAC are reflected in the period such that estimated gross margins are revised on a retrospective basis. DAC related to non-participating traditional individual life insurance and longevity reinsurance contracts is amortized in proportion to gross premiums. amortized over the expected life of the contracts in proportion to gross profits arising principally from investment margins, mortality and expense margins, and surrender charges, based on historical and anticipated future experience, which is updated periodically. The Company uses a reversion to the mean approach for equities to derive future equity return assumptions however, if the projected equity return calculated using this approach is greater than the maximum equity return assumption, the maximum equity return is utilized. Gross profits also include impacts from the embedded derivatives associated with certain of the optional living benefit features of variable annuity contracts, and index-linked crediting features of certain universal life and annuity contracts and related hedging activities. Total gross profits include both actual gross profits and estimates of gross profits for future periods. The Company regularly evaluates and adjusts DAC balances with a corresponding charge or credit to current period earnings, representing a cumulative adjustment to all prior periods amortization, for the Short-term investments primarily consist of highly liquid debt instruments with a maturity of twelve months or less and greater Realized investment gains (losses) are computed using the specific identification method with the exception of some of the Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks, certain money market investments, funds managed Accrued investment income primarily includes accruals of interest and dividend income from investments that have been Deferred policy acquisition costs are costs directly related to the successful acquisition of new and renewal insurance and For traditional participating life insurance which are included in the Closed Block, DAC is amortized over the expected life of DAC related to universal and variable life products and fixed and variable deferred annuity products are generally deferred and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 228 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 229 425 Table of Contents impact of actual gross profits and changes in the Company s projections of estimated future gross profits. Adjustments to DAC balances include: (i) annual review of assumptions that reflect the comprehensive review of the assumptions used in estimating gross profits for future periods (ii) quarterly adjustments for current period experience (also referred to as experience true-up adjustments) that reflect the impact of differences between actual gross profits for a given period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for that period and (iii) quarterly adjustments for market performance (also referred to as experience unlocking ) that reflect the impact of changes to the Company s estimate of total gross profits to reflect actual fund performance and market conditions. over the expected life of the contracts in proportion to gross profits. For group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance contracts, acquisition costs are generally deferred and amortized in proportion to lives insured. For single premium immediate annuities with life contingencies, single premium group annuities, including non-participating group annuity contracts, and single premium structured settlements with life contingencies, all acquisition costs are charged to expense immediately because generally all premiums are recognized as revenue at the inception of the contract. For funding agreement notes contracts, single premium structured settlement contracts without life contingencies, and single premium immediate annuities without life contingencies, acquisition expenses are deferred and amortized over the expected life of the contracts using the interest method. For other group life and disability insurance contracts and guaranteed investment contracts ( GICs ), acquisition costs are expensed as incurred. for a new contract or by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a contract, or by the election of a feature or coverage within a contract. These transactions are known as internal replacements. If policyholders surrender traditional life insurance policies in exchange for life insurance policies that do not have fixed and guaranteed terms, the Company immediately charges to expense the remaining unamortized DAC on the surrendered policies. For other internal replacement transactions, except those that involve the addition of a nonintegrated contract feature that does not change the existing base contract, the unamortized DAC is immediately charged to expense if the terms of the new policies are not substantially similar to those of the former policies. If the new terms are substantially similar to those of the earlier policies, the DAC is retained with respect to the new policies and amortized over the expected life of the new policies. See Note 7 for additional information regarding DAC. acquisition is attributed under the application of purchase accounting. VOBA represents an adjustment to the stated value of in-force insurance contract liabilities to present them at fair value, determined as of the acquisition date. VOBA balances are subject to recoverability testing, in the manner in which they were acquired. The Company has established a VOBA asset primarily for its acquired life insurance products, accident and health products with fixed benefits, deferred annuity contracts, and defined contribution and defined benefit businesses. As of December 31, 2020, the majority of the VOBA balance relates to the 2011 acquisition of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd, AIG Edison Life Insurance Company, and AIG Financial Assurance Japan K.K. and AIG Edison Service Co., Ltd. (collectively, the Star and Edison Businesses .) The Company amortizes VOBA over the anticipated life of the acquired contracts using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC. The Company records amortization of VOBA in General and administrative expenses. VOBA, for applicable products, is adjusted for the impact of unrealized gains or losses on investments as if these gains or losses had been realized, with corresponding credits or charges included in AOCI. See Note 8 for additional information regarding VOBA. equivalents), trade receivables, goodwill and other intangible assets, right-of-use lease assets (see Other liabilities below), DSI, the Company s investments in operating joint ventures, property and equipment, reinsurance recoverables (see Reinsurance below), receivables resulting from sales of securities that had not yet settled at the balance sheet date, and trade receivables related to Assurance IQ. quality of the counterparties and is generally determined based on probability of default and loss given default assumptions. Additions to or releases of the allowance are reported in General and administrative expenses. Prior to the adoption of ASU 2016- 13, the allowance was based upon credit losses that were probable of occurring, not an estimate of credit losses that may occur over the remaining life of the trade receivables. method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, which generally range from 3 to 40 years. For group annuity contracts (other than single premium group annuities), acquisition costs are generally deferred and amortized For some products, policyholders can elect to modify product benefits, features, rights or coverages by exchanging a contract Value of business acquired represents identifiable intangible assets to which a portion of the purchase price in a business Other assets consist primarily of prepaid pension benefit costs (see Note 18), certain restricted assets (e.g., cash and cash Trade receivables related to Assurance IQ are reported net of the CECL allowance. The CECL allowance considers the credit Property and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is determined using the straight-line Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 230 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 231 425 Table of Contents fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units at the date the goodwill is initially recorded. A reporting unit is an operating segment or a unit one level below the operating segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. Once goodwill has been assigned to reporting units, it no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition, and all of the activities within a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically grown, are available to support the value of the goodwill. circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Accounting guidance provides for an optional qualitative assessment for testing goodwill impairment that may allow companies to skip the quantitative test. The Company estimated the fair value of the reporting units by applying the quantitative test, which involves comparing each reporting unit s fair value to its carrying value including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, the applicable goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, an impairment charge to income is recorded for the excess. An impairment loss recognized cannot exceed the amount of goodwill assigned to a reporting unit, and the loss establishes a new basis in the goodwill. Subsequent reversal of goodwill impairment losses is not permitted. Management is required to make significant estimates in determining the fair value of a reporting unit including, but not limited to: projected revenues and operating margins, applicable discount and growth rates, and comparative market multiples. See Note 10 for additional information on goodwill by reporting unit. contracts. The Company defers sales inducements and amortizes them over the expected life of the policy using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC. Sales inducement balances are subject to periodic recoverability testing. The Company records amortization of DSI in Interest credited to policyholders account balances. DSI, for applicable products, is adjusted for the impact of unrealized gains or losses on investments as if these gains or losses had been realized, with corresponding credits or charges included in AOCI. See Note 13 for additional information regarding sales inducements. accumulated amortization. The Company tests identifiable intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis as of December 31 of each year or whenever events or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of an identifiable intangible asset may exceed the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from its use and eventual disposition. If this condition exists and the carrying value of an identifiable intangible asset exceeds its fair value, the excess is recognized as an impairment and is recorded as a charge against net income. Measuring intangible assets requires the use of estimates. Significant estimates include the projected net cash flow attributable to the intangible asset and the risk rate at which future net cash flows are discounted for purposes of estimating fair value, as applicable. See Note 10 for additional information regarding identifiable intangible assets. investments is written down, or impaired, to fair value when a decline in value is considered to be other-than-temporary. See Note 9 for additional information on investments in operating joint ventures. liabilities respectively. Leases are classified as either operating or finance leases and lease expense is recognized within General and administrative expenses. As a lessee, for operating leases, total lease expense is recognized using a straight-line method. Finance leases are treated as the purchase of an asset on a financing basis. Additionally, as a lessor, for sales-type and direct financing leases, the Company derecognizes the carrying value of the leased asset that is considered to have been transferred to a lessee and records a lease receivable and residual asset ( receivable and residual approach). See Note 11 for additional information regarding leases. The impact of this standard resulted in an increase of "right-of-use" assets and lease liabilities related to existing operating leases of approximately 600 million as of January 1, 2019 on the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. customers. The assets consist primarily of equity securities, fixed maturities, real estate-related investments, real estate mortgage loans, short-term investments and derivative instruments and are reported at fair value. The assets of each account are legally segregated and are not subject to claims that arise out of any other business of the Company. Investment risks associated with market value changes are borne by the customers, except to the extent of minimum guarantees made by the Company with As a result of certain acquisitions, the Company recognizes an asset for goodwill representing the excess of cost over the net The Company tests goodwill for impairment annually as of December 31 and more frequently if an event occurs or The Company offered various types of sales inducements to policyholders related to fixed and variable deferred annuity Identifiable intangible assets primarily include customer relationships and mortgage servicing rights and are recorded net of Investments in operating joint ventures are generally accounted for under the equity method. The carrying value of these Leases are recorded on the balance sheet as right-of-use assets and lease liabilities within Other assets and Other Effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), using a modified retrospective approach. Separate account assets represent segregated funds that are invested for certain policyholders, pension funds and other Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 232 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 233 425 Table of Contents respect to certain accounts. The investment income and realized investment gains or losses from separate account assets generally accrue to the policyholders and are not included in the Company s results of operations. Mortality, policy administration and surrender charges assessed against the accounts are included in Policy charges and fee income. Asset management fees charged to the accounts are included in Asset management and service fees. Seed money that the Company invests in separate accounts is reported in the appropriate general account asset line. Investment income and realized investment gains or losses from seed money invested in separate accounts accrue to the Company and are included in the Company s results of operations. See Note 13 for additional information regarding separate account arrangements with contractual guarantees. See also Separate account liabilities below. LIABILITIES behalf of policyholders, where the timing and amount of payment depends on policyholder mortality or morbidity, less the present value of future net premiums. For individual traditional participating life insurance products, the mortality and interest rate assumptions applied are those used to calculate the policies guaranteed cash surrender values. For life insurance, other than individual traditional participating life insurance, and annuity and disability products, expected mortality and morbidity are generally based on Company experience, industry data and or other factors. Interest rate assumptions are based on factors such as market conditions and expected investment returns. Although mortality, morbidity and interest rate assumptions are locked-in upon the issuance of new insurance or annuity business with fixed and guaranteed terms, significant changes in experience or assumptions may require the Company to provide for expected future losses on a product by recognizing a premium deficiency. A premium deficiency exists when the liability for future policy benefits plus the present value of expected future gross premiums are determined to be insufficient to provide for expected future policy benefits and expenses. If a premium deficiency is recognized, the assumptions without a provision for the risk of adverse deviation as of the premium deficiency test date are locked-in and used in subsequent valuations. The net reserves continue to be subject to premium deficiency testing. In determining if a premium deficiency related to short-duration contracts exists, the Company considers, among other factors, anticipated investment income. Any adjustments to future policy benefit reserves related to net unrealized gains on securities classified as available-for-sale are included in AOCI. In certain instances, the policyholder liability for a particular line of business may not be deficient in the aggregate to trigger loss recognition, but the pattern of earnings may be such that profits are expected to be recognized in earlier years followed by losses in later years. In these situations, accounting standards require that an additional liability (Profits Followed by Losses or PFL liability) be recognized by an amount necessary to sufficiently offset the losses that would be recognized in later years. Historically, PFL liabilities have been predominantly associated with certain universal life contracts that measure GAAP reserves using a dynamic approach, and accordingly, are updated each quarter, using current in-force and market data, and as part of the annual assumption update, such that the liability as of each measurement date represents the Company s current estimate of the present value of the amount necessary to offset anticipated future losses. See Note 12 for additional information regarding future policy benefits. The Company does not establish claim liabilities until a loss has been incurred. However, unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses include estimates of claims that the Company believes have been incurred but have not yet been reported as of the balance sheet date. The Company s liability for future policy benefits also includes net liabilities for guarantee benefits related to certain long- duration life and annuity contracts, which are discussed more fully in Note 13, and deferred profits. balance sheet date. This liability is primarily associated with the accumulated account deposits, plus interest credited, less policyholder withdrawals and other charges assessed against the account balance, as applicable. These policyholders account balances also include provision for benefits under non-life contingent payout annuities and certain unearned revenues. See Note 12 for additional information regarding policyholders account balances. Policyholders account balances also includes amounts representing the fair value of embedded derivative instruments associated with the index-linked features of certain universal life and annuity products. For additional information regarding the valuation of these embedded derivatives, see Note 6. the participating policies included in the Closed Block. The dividends payable for participating policies included in the Closed Block are determined at the end of each year for the following year by the Board of Directors of The Prudential Insurance Company of America ( PICA ) based on its statutory results, capital position, ratings, and the emerging experience of the Closed Block. The policyholder dividend obligation represents amounts expected to be paid to Closed Block policyholders as an additional policyholder dividend unless otherwise offset by future Closed Block performance. Any adjustments to the policyholder dividend obligation related to net unrealized gains (losses) on securities classified as available- Future policy benefits represent liabilities that primarily consist of the present value of estimated future payments to or on The Company s liability for future policy benefits also includes a liability for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses. Policyholders account balances represents the contract value that has accrued to the benefit of the policyholder as of the Policyholders dividends includes dividends payable to policyholders and the policyholder dividend obligation associated with Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 234 425 Table of Contents for-sale are included in AOCI. For additional information on the policyholder dividend obligation, see Note 15. The dividends payable for policies other than the participating policies included in the Closed Block include dividends payable in accordance with certain group and individual insurance policies. used primarily to earn spread income. As part of securities repurchase agreements, the Company transfers U.S. government and government agency securities to a third-party and receives cash as collateral. For securities repurchase agreements, the cash received is typically invested in cash equivalents, short-term investments or fixed maturities. Receivables associated with securities purchased under agreements to resell are generally reflected as cash equivalents. As part of securities resale agreements, the Company invests cash and receives as collateral U.S. government securities or other debt securities. arrangements. These agreements are carried at the amounts at which the securities will be subsequently resold or reacquired, as specified in the respective transactions. For securities purchased under agreements to resell, the Company s policy is to take possession or control of the securities either directly or through a third-party custodian. These securities are valued daily and additional securities or cash collateral is received, or returned, when appropriate to protect against credit exposure. Securities to be resold are the same, or substantially the same, as the securities received. The majority of these transactions are with large brokerage firms and large banks. For securities sold under agreements to repurchase, the market value of the securities to be repurchased is monitored, and additional collateral is obtained where appropriate, to protect against credit exposure. The Company obtains collateral in an amount at least equal to 95% of the fair value of the securities sold. Securities to be repurchased are the same, or substantially the same, as those sold. The majority of these transactions are with highly rated money market funds. Income and expenses related to these transactions executed within the insurance companies used to earn spread income are reported as Net investment income. lending transactions are used primarily to earn spread income. As part of securities lending transactions, the Company transfers U.S. and foreign debt and equity securities, as well as U.S. government and government agency securities, and receives cash as collateral. Cash proceeds from securities lending transactions are primarily used to earn spread income, and are typically invested in cash equivalents, short-term investments or fixed maturities. Securities lending transactions are treated as financing arrangements and are recorded at the amount of cash received. The Company obtains collateral in an amount equal to 102% and 105% of the fair value of the domestic and foreign securities, respectively. The Company monitors the market value of the securities loaned on a daily basis with additional collateral obtained as necessary. Substantially all of the Company s securities lending transactions are with large brokerage firms and large banks. Income and expenses associated with securities lending transactions used to earn spread income are reported as Net investment income. government bonds, are received. The collateral received is not reported on the Company s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. In these transactions, the Company receives a fee and obtains collateral in an amount equal to 102% and 105% of the fair value of the domestic and foreign securities, respectively. The Company monitors the market value of the securities loaned on a daily basis with additional collateral obtained as necessary. Substantially all of these transactions are with large brokerage firms and large banks. Income is reported as Net investment income. and open audit years. insurance companies and non-life insurance companies. Certain other domestic subsidiaries file separate tax returns. Subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. are taxed, and income tax expense is recorded, based on applicable foreign statutes. See Note 16 for a discussion of certain non-U.S. jurisdictions for which the Company assumes repatriation of earnings. Securities sold under agreements to repurchase represent liabilities associated with securities repurchase agreements that are Securities repurchase and resale agreements that satisfy certain criteria are treated as secured borrowing or secured lending Cash collateral for loaned securities represent liabilities to return cash proceeds from security lending transactions. Securities The Company also enters into securities lending transactions where non-cash collateral, typically U.S. government or Japanese Income taxes primarily represents the net deferred tax liability and the Company s estimated taxes payable for the current year The Company and its includible domestic subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return that includes both life Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 235 425 Table of Contents As a result, the effective tax rate reflected in the financial statements may be different than the actual rate applied on the tax return. Some of these differences are permanent such as expenses that are not deductible in the Company s tax return, and some differences are temporary, reversing over time, such as valuation of insurance reserves. Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in future years for which the Company has already recorded the tax benefit in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the Company s financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expenditures for which the Company has already taken a deduction in the Company s tax return but have not yet been recognized in the Company s financial statements. Deferred income taxes are recognized, based on enacted rates, when assets and liabilities have different values for financial statement and tax reporting purposes. establish a valuation allowance if necessary to reduce the Company s deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not expected to be realized. Considerable judgment is required in determining whether a valuation allowance is necessary, and if so, the amount of such valuation allowance. See Note 16 for a discussion of factors considered when evaluating the need for a valuation allowance. effective tax rate and cash tax payments. The Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax ( BEAT ) taxes modified taxable income, starting at a rate of 10% in 2019 and increasing to 12.5% in 2026, and is due if the calculated BEAT amount that is determined without the benefit of foreign and certain tax credits is greater than the regular corporate tax in any given year. In general, modified taxable income is calculated by adding back to a taxpayer s regular taxable income the amount of certain base erosion tax benefits with respect to payments to foreign affiliates, as well as the base erosion percentage of any net operating loss deductions. Final Regulations confirmed that benefit and claim payments made by our U.S. insurance business to our foreign affiliates on reinsurance assumed by the U.S. affiliates are not base erosion payments. The Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income ( GILTI ) provision applies a minimum U.S. tax to earnings of consolidated foreign subsidiaries in excess of a 10% deemed return on tangible assets of foreign subsidiaries by imposing the U.S. tax rate to 50% of earnings of such foreign affiliates and provides for a partial foreign tax credit for foreign income taxes. The amount of tax in any period on GILTI can depend on annual differences between U.S. taxable income recognition rules and taxable income recognition rules in the country of operations and the overall taxable income of U.S. operations, as well as U.S. expense allocation rules which limit the amount of foreign tax credits that can be applied to reduce the U.S. tax on the GILTI provision. Under certain circumstances, the taxable income of U.S. operations may cause more than 50% of earnings of foreign affiliates to be subject to the GILTI provision. In years that the PFI consolidated federal income tax return reports a net operating loss or has a loss attributable to U.S. sources of operations, the GILTI provision would cause a loss of U.S. tax benefits for some or all of those losses, effectively increasing the tax on foreign earnings. The Company accounts for the effects of the BEAT and GILTI provisions as a period cost if and when incurred. Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ( SAB 118 ), which allowed registrants to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year. Under the relief provided by SAB 118, a company could recognize provisional amounts when it did not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete its accounting for the change in tax law. See Note 16 for a discussion of refinements to the provisional amount related to the Tax Act of 2017 included in Total income tax expense (benefit) before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures in 2018. financial statements uncertain tax positions that a company has taken or expects to take on tax returns. The application of this guidance is a two-step process. First, the Company determines whether it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits, that the tax position will be sustained upon examination. If a tax position does not meet the more likely than not recognition threshold, the benefit of that position is not recognized in the financial statements. The second step is measurement. The Company measures the tax position as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon ultimate resolution with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. This measurement considers the amounts and probabilities of the outcomes that could be realized upon ultimate settlement using the facts, circumstances, and information available at the reporting date. Items required by tax regulations to be included in the tax return may differ from the items reflected in the financial statements. The application of U.S. GAAP requires the Company to evaluate the recoverability of the Company s deferred tax assets and The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 ( Tax Act of 2017 ) included two new tax provisions that could impact the Company s In December of 2017, Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) staff issued SAB 118, Income Tax Accounting U.S. GAAP prescribes a comprehensive model for how a company should recognize, measure, present, and disclose in its Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 236 425 Table of Contents tax years still subject to review by the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) or other taxing jurisdictions. Audit periods remain open for review until the statute of limitations has passed. Generally, for tax years which produce net operating losses, capital losses or tax credit carryforwards ( tax attributes ), the statute of limitations does not close, to the extent of these tax attributes, until the expiration of the statute of limitations for the tax year in which they are fully utilized. The completion of review or the expiration of the statute of limitations for a given audit period could result in an adjustment to the liability for income taxes. The Company classifies all interest and penalties related to tax uncertainties as income tax expense. See Note 16 for additional information regarding income taxes. 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), which allowed a reclassification from AOCI to retained earnings for stranded effects resulting from the Tax Act of 2017. The Company elected to apply the ASU subsequent to recording the adoption impacts of ASU 2016-01 as described above. As a result, the Company reclassified stranded effects resulting from the Tax Act of 2017 by increasing AOCI and decreasing retained earnings, each by 1,653 million upon adoption on January 1, 2018. Stranded effects unrelated to the Tax Act of 2017 are generally released from AOCI when an entire portfolio of the type of item related to the stranded effect is liquidated, sold or extinguished (i.e., portfolio approach). unamortized discount or premium and debt issue costs. Original-issue discount or premium and debt-issue costs are recognized as a component of interest expense over the period the debt is expected to be outstanding, using the interest method of amortization. Interest expense is generally presented within General and administrative expenses in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations. Interest expense may also be reported within Net investment income for certain activity, as prescribed by specialized industry guidance. Short-term debt is debt coming due in the next twelve months, including that portion of debt otherwise classified as long-term. The short-term debt caption may exclude short-term debt items for which the Company has the intent and ability to refinance on a long-term basis in the near-term. See Note 17 for additional information regarding short-term and long-term debt. benefit liabilities (see Note 18), derivative liabilities (see Derivative Financial Instruments below), reinsurance payables (see Reinsurance below), and payables resulting from purchases of securities that had not yet settled at the balance sheet date. primarily collateralized loan obligations ( CLOs ), which the Company is required to consolidate. The creditors of these VIEs do not have recourse to the Company in excess of the assets contained within the VIEs. The Company has elected the fair value option for the majority of these notes, and has based the fair value on the corresponding bank loan collateral. Changes in fair value are reported in Other income (loss). extent borrowings of the separate account, and will be equal and offsetting to total separate account assets. See also Separate account assets above. reasonably estimable. Management evaluates whether there are incremental legal or other costs directly associated with the ultimate resolution of the matter that are reasonably estimable and, if so, they are included in the accrual. These accruals are generally reported in Other liabilities. REVENUES AND BENEFITS AND EXPENSES care products are recognized when due. When premiums are due over a significantly shorter period than the period over which benefits are provided, any gross premium in excess of the net premium (i.e., the portion of the gross premium required to provide for all expected future benefits and expenses) is generally deferred and recognized into revenue in a constant relationship to insurance in force. Benefits are recorded as an expense when they are incurred. A liability for future policy benefits is recorded when premiums are recognized using the net level premium valuation methodology. The Company s liability for income taxes includes a liability for unrecognized tax benefits, interest and penalties which relate to Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2018-02, Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic Short-term and long-term debt liabilities are primarily carried at an amount equal to unpaid principal balance, net of Other liabilities consist primarily of trade payables, lease liabilities (see Other assets above), pension and other employee Notes issued by consolidated variable interest entities represent notes issued by certain asset-backed investment vehicles, Separate account liabilities primarily represent the contractholder s account balance in separate account assets and to a lesser Commitments and contingent liabilities are accrued if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and an amount is Insurance Revenue and Expense Recognition Premiums from individual life products, other than universal and variable life contracts, and health insurance and long-term Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 237 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 238 425 Table of Contents contingencies and single premium immediate annuities with life contingencies are recognized when due. When premiums are due over a significantly shorter period than the period over which benefits are provided, any gross premium in excess of the net premium is generally deferred and recognized into revenue based on expected future benefit payments. Benefits are recorded as an expense when they are incurred. A liability for future policy benefits is recorded when premiums are recognized using the net level premium valuation methodology. will be no less than a minimum prescribed amount. These benefits are accounted for as insurance contracts. The Company also provides contracts with certain living benefits which are considered embedded derivatives. See Note 13 for additional information regarding these contracts and Note 6 for information regarding the valuation of these embedded derivatives. structured settlements and other contracts without life contingencies, and participating group annuities are reported as deposits to Policyholders account balances and or Separate account liabilities. Revenues from these contracts are reflected in Policy charges and fee income consisting primarily of fees assessed during the period against the policyholders account balances for mortality and other benefit charges, policy administration charges and surrender charges. In addition to fees, the Company earns investment income from the investment of deposits in the Company s general account portfolio. Fees assessed that represent compensation to the Company for services to be provided in future periods and certain other fees are generally deferred and amortized into revenue over the life of the related contracts in proportion to estimated gross profits. Benefits and expenses for these products include claims in excess of related account balances, expenses of contract administration, interest credited to policyholders account balances and amortization of DAC, DSI and VOBA. associated with the index-linked features of certain universal life and annuity products. For additional information regarding the valuation of these embedded derivatives, see Note 6. recognized over the period to which the premiums relate in proportion to the amount of insurance protection provided. Claim and claim adjustment expenses are recognized when incurred. in which the services are performed. In certain asset management fee arrangements, the Company is entitled to receive performance- based incentive fees when the return on assets under management exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance targets. The Company may be required to return all, or part, of such performance-based incentive fees depending on future performance of these assets relative to performance benchmarks. The Company records performance-based incentive fee revenue when the contractual terms of the asset management fee arrangement have been satisfied and it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of the fee will not occur. Under this principle the Company records a deferred performance-based incentive fee liability to the extent it receives cash related to the performance-based incentive fee prior to meeting the revenue recognition criteria delineated above. fair value, Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, at fair value, Equity securities, at fair value, and Other invested assets that are measured at fair value and consolidated entities that follow specialized investment company fair value accounting. Other income (loss) also includes gains and losses primarily related to the remeasurement of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, as discussed in more detail under Foreign Currency below. renewal commissions as compensation for the placement of insurance policies with insurance carriers. At the effective date of the policy, the Company records within Other income (loss) the expected lifetime revenue for the initial and renewal commissions considering estimates of the timing of future policy cancelations. These estimates are reassessed each reporting period and any changes in estimates are reflected in the current period. Premiums from non-participating group annuities with life contingencies, single premium structured settlements with life Certain individual annuity contracts provide the contractholder a guarantee that the benefit received upon death or annuitization Amounts received as payment for universal or variable group and individual life contracts, deferred fixed or variable annuities, Policyholders account balances also includes amounts representing the fair value of embedded derivative instruments For group life, other than universal and variable group life contracts, and disability insurance, premiums are generally Asset management and service fees principally includes asset-based asset management fees, which are recognized in the period Other income (loss) includes realized and unrealized gains or losses from investments classified Fixed maturities, trading, at Additionally, for digital insurance brokerage placement services provided by Assurance IQ, the Company earns both initial and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 239 425 Table of Contents OTHER ACCOUNTING POLICIES employees except for equity instruments held by employee share ownership plans. Excess tax benefits (deficits) are recorded in earnings and represent the cumulative difference between the actual tax benefit realized and the amount of deferred tax assets recorded attributable to shared-based payment transactions. and related interpretations on accounting for equity instruments that are issued to other than employees for acquiring, or in conjunction with selling, goods or services. earnings per share is computed by dividing available income attributable to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share includes the effect of all dilutive potential common shares that were outstanding during the period. See Note 20 for additional information. liabilities and results of foreign operations are recorded based on the functional currency of each foreign operation. The determination of the functional currency is based on economic facts and circumstances pertaining to each foreign operation. The local currencies of the Company s foreign operations are typically their functional currencies with the most significant exception being the Company s Japanese operations where multiple functional currencies exist. foreign currency measurement and foreign currency translation. Foreign currency measurement is the process by which transactions in foreign currencies are expressed in the functional currency. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency measurement are reported in current earnings in Other income (loss). Foreign currency translation is the process of expressing a foreign entity s functional currency financial statements in the reporting currency. Assets and liabilities of foreign operations and subsidiaries reported in currencies other than U.S. dollars are translated at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period. Revenues, benefits and other expenses are translated at the average rate prevailing during the period. The effects of translating the statements of operations and financial position of non-U.S. entities with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar are included, net of related qualifying hedge gains and losses and income taxes, in Foreign currency translation adjustment, a component of AOCI. values of securities or commodities, credit spreads, market volatility, expected returns, and liquidity. Values can also be affected by changes in estimates and assumptions, including those related to counterparty behavior and non-performance risk ( NPR ) used in valuation models. Derivative financial instruments generally used by the Company include swaps, futures, forwards and options and may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter ( OTC ) market. Certain of the Company s OTC derivatives are cleared and settled through central clearing counterparties (OTC-cleared), while others are bilateral contracts between two counterparties (OTC-bilateral). Derivative positions are carried at fair value, generally by obtaining quoted market prices or through the use of valuation models. expected non-functional currency earnings and net investments in foreign operations resulting from changes in currency exchange rates. Additionally, derivatives may be used to seek to reduce exposure to interest rate, credit, foreign currency and equity risks associated with assets held or expected to be purchased or sold, and liabilities incurred or expected to be incurred. As discussed in detail below, and in Note 5, all realized and unrealized changes in fair value of derivatives are recorded in current earnings, with the exception of cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations. The Company may also enter into intercompany derivatives, the results of which ultimately eliminate in consolidation over the term of the instrument however, where applicable, derivative results are included in business gross profits which may impact the Share-Based Payments The Company applies the fair value-based measurement method in accounting for share-based payment transactions with The Company accounts for non-employee stock options using the fair value method in accordance with authoritative guidance Earnings Per Share Earnings per share of Common Stock for 2020, 2019 and 2018 reflects the consolidated earnings of Prudential Financial. Basic Foreign Currency The currency in which the Company prepares its financial statements (the reporting currency ) is the U.S. dollar. Assets, There are two distinct processes for expressing these foreign transactions and balances in the Company s financial statements: Derivative Financial Instruments Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices, Derivatives are used to manage the interest rate and currency characteristics of assets or liabilities and to mitigate volatility of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 240 425 Table of Contents pattern by which DAC and other assets are amortized. Cash flows from derivatives are reported in the operating, investing, or financing activities sections in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows based on the nature and purpose of the derivative. embedded derivatives which are recorded with the associated host contract. The Company nets the fair value of all derivative financial instruments with counterparties for which a master netting arrangement has been executed. firm commitment ( fair value hedge) (2) a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability ( cash flow hedge) (3) a foreign currency fair value or cash flow hedge ( foreign currency hedge) (4) a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation or (5) a derivative that does not qualify for hedge accounting. item. Effectiveness of the hedge is formally assessed at inception and throughout the life of the hedging relationship. risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. This process includes linking all derivatives designated as fair value, cash flow, or foreign currency hedges to specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific firm commitments or forecasted transactions. Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation are linked to the specific foreign operation. with changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability (including losses or gains on firm commitments), are reported on a net basis in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, generally in Realized investment gains (losses), net. When swaps are used in hedge accounting relationships, periodic settlements are recorded in the same Consolidated Statements of Operations line as the related settlements of the hedged items. recorded in AOCI until earnings are affected by the variability of cash flows being hedged (e.g., when periodic settlements on a variable-rate asset or liability are recorded in earnings). At that time, the related portion of deferred gains or losses on the derivative instrument is reclassified and reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations line item associated with the hedged item. are recorded either in current period earnings if the hedge transaction is a fair value hedge (e.g., a hedge of a recognized foreign currency asset or liability) or in AOCI if the hedge transaction is a cash flow hedge (e.g., a foreign currency denominated forecasted transaction). When a derivative is used as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, its change in fair value is accounted for in the same manner as a translation adjustment (i.e., reported in the cumulative translation adjustment account within AOCI). hedge designation, the derivative will continue to be carried on the balance sheet at its fair value, with changes in fair value recognized currently in Realized investment gains (losses), net. In this scenario, the hedged asset or liability under a fair value hedge will no longer be adjusted for changes in fair value and the existing basis adjustment is amortized to the Consolidated Statements of Operations line associated with the asset or liability. The component of AOCI related to discontinued cash flow hedges is reclassified to the Consolidated Statements of Operations line associated with the hedged cash flows consistent with the earnings impact of the original hedged cash flows. because it is probable that the forecasted transaction will not occur by the end of the specified time period, the derivative will continue to be carried on the balance sheet at its fair value, with changes in fair value recognized currently in Realized investment gains (losses), net. Any asset or liability that was recorded pursuant to recognition of the firm commitment is removed from the balance sheet and recognized currently in Realized investment gains (losses), net. Gains and losses that were in AOCI pursuant to the cash flow hedge of a forecasted transaction are recognized immediately in Realized investment gains (losses), net. Derivatives are recorded either as assets, within Other invested assets, or as liabilities, within Other liabilities, except for The Company designates derivatives as either (1) a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or unrecognized To qualify for hedge accounting treatment, a derivative must be highly effective in mitigating the designated risk of the hedged The Company formally documents at inception all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its When a derivative is designated as a fair value hedge and is determined to be highly effective, changes in its fair value, along When a derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge and is determined to be highly effective, changes in its fair value are When a derivative is designated as a foreign currency hedge and is determined to be highly effective, changes in its fair value If it is determined that a derivative no longer qualifies as an effective fair value or cash flow hedge or management removes the When hedge accounting is discontinued because the hedged item no longer meets the definition of a firm commitment, or Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 241 425 Table of Contents included in Realized investment gains (losses), net without considering changes in the fair value of the economically associated assets or liabilities. instruments. At inception, the Company assesses whether the economic characteristics of the embedded instrument are clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the remaining component of the financial instrument (i.e., the host contract) and whether a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded instrument would meet the definition of a derivative instrument. When it is determined that (1) the embedded instrument possesses economic characteristics that are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract and (2) a separate instrument with the same terms would qualify as a derivative instrument, the embedded instrument qualifies as an embedded derivative that is separated from the host contract, carried at fair value, and changes in its fair value are included in Realized investment gains (losses), net. For certain financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative that otherwise would need to be bifurcated and reported at fair value, the Company may elect to carry the entire instrument at fair value and report it within Other invested assets or Other liabilities. relating to insurance risk in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company reviews all contractual features, particularly those that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims. assuming entity). See Note 14 for additional information about the Company s reinsurance arrangements. Reinsurance assumed business is generally accounted for consistent with direct business. Amounts currently recoverable under reinsurance agreements are included in Other assets and amounts payable are included in Other liabilities. Revenues and benefits and expenses include amounts assumed under reinsurance agreements and are reflected net of reinsurance ceded. liability of the Company in the event the reinsurers were unable to meet their obligations to the Company under the terms of the reinsurance agreements. Reinsurance recoverables are reported net of the CECL allowance. The CECL allowance considers the credit quality of the reinsurance counterparty and is generally determined based on the probability of default and loss given default assumptions, after considering any applicable collateral arrangements. Additions to or releases of the allowance are reported in Policyholders benefits . Prior to the adoption of ASU 2016-13, an allowance for credit losses for reinsurance recoverables was established only when it was deemed probable that a reinsurer may fail to make payments to us in a timely manner. Reinsurance premiums, commissions, expense reimbursements, benefits and reserves related to reinsured long-duration contracts under coinsurance arrangements are accounted for over the life of the underlying reinsured contracts using assumptions consistent with those used to account for the underlying contracts. Coinsurance arrangements contrast with the Company s yearly renewable term arrangements, where only mortality risk is transferred to the reinsurer and premiums are paid to the reinsurer to reinsure that risk. The mortality risk that is reinsured under yearly renewable term arrangements represents the difference between the stated death benefits in the underlying reinsured contracts and the corresponding reserves or account value carried by the Company on those same contracts. The premiums paid to the reinsurer are based upon negotiated amounts, not on the actual premiums paid by the underlying contract holders to the Company. As yearly renewable term arrangements are usually entered into by the Company with the expectation that the contracts will be in force for the lives of the underlying policies, they are considered to be long-duration reinsurance contracts. The cost of reinsurance for universal life products is generally recognized based on the gross assessments of the underlying direct policies. The cost of reinsurance for term insurance products is generally recognized in proportion to yearly renewable term premiums over the life of the underlying policies. The cost of reinsurance related to short-duration reinsurance contracts is accounted for over the reinsurance contract period. significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the agreement using the deposit method of accounting. Deposits received are included in Other liabilities and deposits made are included in Other assets . As amounts are paid or received, consistent with the underlying contracts, the deposit assets or liabilities are adjusted. Interest on such deposits is recorded as Other income (loss) or General and administrative expenses, as appropriate. If a derivative does not qualify for hedge accounting, all changes in its fair value, including net receipts and payments, are The Company is a party to financial instruments that contain derivative instruments that are embedded in the financial Reinsurance For each of its reinsurance contracts, the Company determines if the contract provides indemnification against loss or liability The Company participates in reinsurance arrangements in various capacities as either the ceding entity or as the reinsurer (i.e., Reinsurance ceded arrangements do not discharge the Company as the primary insurer. Ceded balances would represent a If the Company determines that a reinsurance agreement does not expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 242 425 Table of Contents RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Standards Updates ( ASUs ) to the FASB Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ). The Company considers the applicability and impact of all ASUs. ASUs listed below include those that have been adopted during the current fiscal year and or those that have been issued but not yet adopted as of December 31, 2020, and as of the date of this filing. ASUs not listed below were assessed and determined to be either not applicable or not material. Adoption of ASU 2016-13 certain financial assets carried at amortized cost and certain off-balance sheet exposures. The modified retrospective method results in a cumulative effect adjustment to opening retained earnings. The Company adopted the guidance related to fixed maturities, available-for-sale on a prospective basis. certain financial assets reported at amortized cost (e.g., loans held for investment, fixed maturities held-to-maturity, reinsurance receivables, etc.) and certain off-balance sheet credit exposures (e.g., indemnification of serviced mortgage loans and certain loan commitments). The guidance requires an entity to estimate lifetime credit losses related to such financial assets and credit exposures based on relevant information about past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that may affect the collectability of the reported amounts. The standard also modifies the OTTI guidance for fixed maturities, available-for-sale requiring the use of an allowance rather than a direct write-down of the investment. Adjustment Upon Adoption (2) Changes to the Presentation of the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and Consolidated Statements of Operations and (3) Changes to Accounting Policies. Each of these impacts is described below. (1) Cumulative Effect Adjustment Upon Adoption opening retained earnings. (2) Changes to the Presentation of the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and Consolidated Statements of Operations Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity (9) Commercial mortgage and other loans (115) Other invested assets (1) Deferred policy acquisition costs 9 Other assets (6) Policyholders' dividends (14) Other liabilities 21 Income taxes (30) Retained earnings (99) Total assets (122) Total liabilities (23) Total equity (99) Total liabilities and equity (122) Changes to U.S. GAAP are established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) in the form of Accounting The Company adopted ASU 2016-13, and related ASUs, effective January 1, 2020 using the modified retrospective method for This ASU requires the use of a new current expected credit loss ( CECL ) model to account for expected credit losses on The impacts of this ASU on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements primarily include (1) A Cumulative Effect The prospective adoption of the portions of the standard related to fixed maturities, available-for-sale resulted in no impact to Summary of Transition Impact on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Upon Adoption on January 1, 2020 Increase (Decrease) (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 243 425 Table of Contents Position. In the Consolidated Statements of Operations, realized investment gains (losses), net are presented on one line item and no longer reflect the breakout of OTTI on fixed maturity securities OTTI on fixed maturity securities transferred to OCI and other realized investment gains (losses), net. The presentation of this detail in prior periods is immaterial. (3) Changes to Accounting Policies December 31, 2020, including the policies associated with the adoption of ASU 2016-13. Other ASUs adopted during the year ended December 31, 2020 ASU issued but not yet adopted as of December 31, 2020 ASU 2018-12 Contracts, was issued by the FASB on August 15, 2018 and is expected to have a significant impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In October 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-09, Financial Services - Insurance (Topic 944): Effective Date to affirm its decision to defer the effective date of ASU 2018-12 to January 1, 2022 (with early adoption permitted), representing a one year extension from the original effective date of January 1, 2021. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, in November 2020 the FASB issued ASU 2020-11, Financial Services Insurance (Topic 944): Effective Date and Early Application to defer for an additional one year the effective date of ASU 2018-12 from January 1, 2022 to January 1, 2023, and to provide transition relief to facilitate the early adoption of the ASU. The transition relief would allow large calendar-year public companies that early adopt ASU 2018-12 to apply the guidance either as of January 1, 2020 or January 1, 2021 (and record transition adjustments as of January 1, 2020 or January 1, 2021, respectively) in the 2022 financial statements. Companies that do not early adopt ASU 2018-12 would apply the guidance as of January 1, 2021 (and record transition adjustments as of January 1, 2021) in the 2023 financial statements. The Company currently intends to adopt ASU 2018-12 effective January 1, 2023. ASU 2018-12 will impact, at least to some extent, the accounting and disclosure requirements for all long-duration insurance and investment contracts issued by the Company. Outlined below are four key areas of change, although there are other less significant changes not noted below. In addition to the impacts to the balance sheet upon adoption, the Company also expects an impact to how earnings emerge thereafter. ASU 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment ASU 2020-04, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting The allowance for credit losses is presented parenthetically on relevant line items in the Consolidated Statements of Financial The narrative description of our significant accounting policies at the beginning of this Note reflects our policies as of ASU 2018-12, Financial Services Insurance (Topic 944): Targeted Improvements to the Accounting for Long-Duration Standard Description This ASU simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test, which measures a goodwill impairment by comparing the implied fair value of a reporting unit s goodwill with the carrying amount of the goodwill. Under the ASU, a goodwill impairment should be recorded for the amount by which the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value (capped by the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit). This ASU provides optional relief for certain contracts impacted by reference rate reform. The standard permits an entity to consider contract modification due to reference rate reform to be an event that does not require contract remeasurement at the modification date or reassessment of a previous accounting determination. The ASU also temporarily (until December 31, 2022) allows hedge relationships to continue without de-designation upon changes due to reference rate reform. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. January 1, 2020 using the prospective method. March 12, 2020 to December 31, 2022 using the prospective method. Effective date and method of adoption The adoption of the ASU did not have a significant impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. This ASU did not have a significant impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company made the election under ASU 2020-04 for all applicable contracts as they converted from the current reference rate to the new reference rate. Effect on the financial statements or other significant matters 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 244 425 Table of Contents Cash flow assumptions used to measure the liability for future policy benefits for non- participating traditional and limited-pay insurance products Discount rate assumption used to measure the liability for future policy benefits for non- participating traditional and limited-pay insurance products Amortization of deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and other balances Amended Topic Description Method of adoption ASU 2018-12 Requires an entity to review, and if necessary, update the cash flow assumptions used to measure the liability for future policy benefits, for both changes in future assumptions and actual experience, at least annually using a retrospective update method with a cumulative catch-up adjustment recorded in a separate line item in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Requires discount rate assumptions to be based on an upper-medium grade fixed income instrument yield, which will be updated each quarter with the impact recorded through OCI. An entity shall maximize the use of relevant observable information and minimize the use of unobservable information in determining the discount rate assumptions. Requires DAC and other balances, such as unearned revenue reserves and DSI, to be amortized on a constant level basis over the expected term of the related contract, independent of expected profitability. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. An entity may choose one of two adoption methods for the liability for future policy benefits: (1) a modified retrospective transition method whereby the entity may choose to apply the amendments to contracts in force as of the beginning of the prior year (if early adoption is elected) or as of the beginning of the earliest period presented on the basis of their existing carrying amounts, adjusted for the removal of any related amounts in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( AOCI ) or (2) a full retrospective transition method. As noted above, an entity may choose either a modified retrospective transition method or full retrospective transition method for the liability for future policy benefits. Under either method, for balance sheet remeasurement purposes, the liability for future policy benefits will be remeasured using current discount rates as of either the beginning of the prior year (if early adoption is elected) or the beginning of the earliest period presented with the impact recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to AOCI. An entity may apply one of two adoption methods: (1) a modified retrospective transition method whereby the entity may choose to apply the amendments to contracts in force as of the beginning of the prior year (if early adoption is elected) or as of the beginning of the earliest period presented on the basis of their existing carrying amounts, adjusted for the removal of any related amounts in AOCI or (2) if an entity chooses a full retrospective transition method for its liability for future policy benefits, as described above, it is required to also use a full retrospective transition method for DAC and other balances. The options for method of adoption and the impacts of such methods are under assessment. Upon adoption, under either transition method, there will be an adjustment to AOCI as a result of remeasuring in-force contract liabilities using current upper- medium grade fixed income instrument yields. The adjustment upon adoption will largely reflect the difference between discount rates locked-in at contract inception versus current discount rates at transition. The magnitude of such adjustment is currently being assessed. The options for method of adoption and the impacts of such methods are under assessment. Under the modified retrospective transition method, the Company would not expect a significant impact to the balance sheet, other than the impact of the removal of any related amounts in AOCI. Effect on the financial statements or other significant matters 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 245 425 Table of Contents Market Risk Benefits ( MRB ) Requires an entity to measure all market risk benefits (e.g., living benefit and death benefit guarantees associated with variable annuities) at fair value, and record MRB assets and liabilities separately on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Changes in fair value of market risk benefits are recorded in net income, except for the portion of the change in MRB liabilities attributable to changes in an entity s NPR, which is recognized in OCI. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. An entity shall adopt the guidance for market risk benefits using the retrospective transition method, which includes a cumulative effect adjustment on the balance sheet as of either the beginning of prior year (if early adoption is elected) or the beginning of the earliest period presented. An entity shall maximize the use of relevant observable information and minimize the use of unobservable information in determining the balance of the market risk benefits upon adoption. Upon adoption, the Company expects an impact to retained earnings for the difference between the fair value and carrying value of benefits not currently measured at fair value (e.g., guaranteed minimum death benefits on variable annuities) and an impact from reclassifying the cumulative effect of changes in NPR from retained earnings to AOCI. The magnitude of such adjustments is currently being assessed. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 246 425 Table of Contents 3. INVESTMENTS Fixed Maturity Securities the dates indicated: (1) Excludes notes with amortized cost of 5,966 million (fair value, 6,100 million), which have been offset with the associated debt under a netting agreement. December 31, 2020 (in millions) Fixed maturities, available-for-sale: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 30,766 9,699 17 0 40,448 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 10,668 2,144 1 0 12,811 Foreign government bonds 94,110 16,373 239 0 110,244 U.S. public corporate securities 95,299 18,516 213 47 113,555 U.S. private corporate securities(1) 36,894 4,196 134 19 40,937 Foreign public corporate securities 25,857 3,768 64 24 29,537 Foreign private corporate securities 28,668 3,183 226 33 31,592 Asset-backed securities(2) 14,489 176 74 0 14,591 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 15,036 1,288 11 10 16,303 Residential mortgage-backed securities(3) 2,683 205 1 0 2,887 December 31, 2020 (in millions) Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity: Foreign government bonds 935 270 0 1,205 0 935 Foreign public corporate securities 651 68 0 719 9 642 Foreign private corporate securities 87 1 0 88 0 87 Residential mortgage-backed securities(3) 266 20 0 286 0 266 (2) Includes credit-tranched securities collateralized loan obligations, auto loans, education loans, home equity and other asset types. (3) Includes publicly-traded agency pass-through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. (4) Excludes notes with amortized cost of 4,998 million (fair value, 5,821 million), which have been offset with the associated debt under a netting agreement. Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale(1) 354,470 59,548 980 133 412,905 Total fixed maturities, held-to-maturity(4) 1,939 359 0 2,298 9 1,930 The following tables set forth the composition of fixed maturity securities (excluding investments classified as trading), as of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Allowance for Credit for Credit 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 247 425 Table of Contents (1) Excludes notes with amortized cost of 4,751 million (fair value, 4,757 million), which have been offset with the associated debt under a netting agreement. an allowance for credit losses aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual fixed maturity securities had been in a continuous unrealized loss position, as of the date indicated: December 31, 2019 (in millions) Fixed maturities, available-for-sale: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 30,625 5,195 161 35,659 0 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 10,068 1,437 8 11,497 0 Foreign government bonds 98,356 20,761 63 119,054 (34) U.S. public corporate securities 87,566 11,030 257 98,339 (6) U.S. private corporate securities(1) 34,410 2,243 120 36,533 0 Foreign public corporate securities 26,841 3,054 70 29,825 (1) Foreign private corporate securities 27,619 1,201 580 28,240 0 Asset-backed securities(2) 13,067 147 40 13,174 (77) Commercial mortgage-backed securities 14,978 610 14 15,574 0 Residential mortgage-backed securities(3) 3,044 159 2 3,201 (1) December 31, 2019 (in millions) Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity: Foreign government bonds 891 282 0 1,173 Foreign public corporate securities 649 64 0 713 Foreign private corporate securities 83 2 0 85 Residential mortgage-backed securities(3) 310 21 0 331 (2) Includes credit-tranched securities collateralized by loan obligations, auto loans, education loans, home equity and other asset types. (3) Includes publicly-traded agency pass-through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. (4) Represents the amount of unrealized losses remaining in AOCI, from the impairment measurement date. Amount excludes 362 million of net unrealized gains on impaired available-for-sale securities and 1 million of net unrealized gains on impaired held-to-maturity securities relating to changes in the value of such securities subsequent to the impairment measurement date. (5) Excludes notes with amortized cost of 4,998 million (fair value, 5,401 million), which have been offset with the associated debt under a netting agreement. Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale(1) 346,574 45,837 1,315 391,096 (119) Total fixed maturities, held-to-maturity(5) 1,933 369 0 2,302 The following table sets forth the fair value and gross unrealized losses on available-for-sale fixed maturity securities without Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized in AOCI(4) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 248 425 Table of Contents category and length of time that individual fixed maturity securities had been in a continuous unrealized loss position, as of the date indicated: (1) As of December 31, 2019, there were no securities classified as held-to-maturity in a gross unrealized loss position. December 31, 2020 (in millions) Fixed maturities, available-for-sale: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 750 17 0 0 750 17 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 73 1 0 0 73 1 Foreign government bonds 6,536 231 39 8 6,575 239 U.S. public corporate securities 3,905 87 1,197 106 5,102 193 U.S. private corporate securities 1,712 52 843 82 2,555 134 Foreign public corporate securities 1,412 30 376 23 1,788 53 Foreign private corporate securities 798 34 2,371 192 3,169 226 Asset-backed securities 4,132 25 4,685 49 8,817 74 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 284 8 93 3 377 11 Residential mortgage-backed securities 116 1 1 0 117 1 December 31, 2019 (in millions) Fixed maturities(1): U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 4,950 161 267 0 5,217 161 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 273 8 0 0 273 8 Foreign government bonds 2,332 60 126 3 2,458 63 U.S. public corporate securities 3,944 85 2,203 172 6,147 257 U.S. private corporate securities 2,283 44 1,563 76 3,846 120 Foreign public corporate securities 1,271 23 496 47 1,767 70 Foreign private corporate securities 1,466 33 5,666 547 7,132 580 Asset-backed securities 3,979 12 4,433 28 8,412 40 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 1,193 10 164 4 1,357 14 Residential mortgage-backed securities 207 1 88 1 295 2 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale 19,718 486 9,605 463 29,323 949 Total 21,898 437 15,006 878 36,904 1,315 The following table sets forth the fair value and gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities aggregated by investment Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Twelve Months Twelve Months Unrealized Unrealized Twelve Months Twelve Months or More Total or More Total Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 249 425 Table of Contents composed of 636 million related to 1 highest quality or 2 high quality securities based on the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ) or equivalent rating and 313 million related to other than high or highest quality securities based on NAIC or equivalent rating. As of December 31, 2020, the 463 million of gross unrealized losses of twelve months or more were concentrated in the Company s corporate securities within the energy, utility and finance sectors. highest quality or 2 high quality securities based on NAIC or equivalent rating and 342 million related to other than high or highest quality securities based on NAIC or equivalent rating. As of December 31, 2019, the 878 million of gross unrealized losses of twelve months or more were concentrated in the Company s corporate securities within the energy, consumer non-cyclical and finance sectors. related to these fixed maturity securities was not warranted at December 31, 2020. These conclusions were based on a detailed analysis of the underlying credit and cash flows on each security. Gross unrealized losses are primarily attributable to general credit spread widening, increases in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rate movements and the financial condition or near-term prospects of the issuer. As of December 31, 2020, the Company did not intend to sell these securities, and it was not more likely than not that the Company would be required to sell these securities before the anticipated recovery of the remaining amortized cost basis. contractual maturities, as of the date indicated: (1) Excludes available-for-sale notes with amortized cost of 5,966 million (fair value, 6,100 million) and held-to-maturity notes with amortized cost of 4,998 million (fair value, 5,821 million), which have been offset with the associated debt under a netting agreement. backed, commercial mortgage-backed and residential mortgage-backed securities are shown separately in the table above, as they do not have a single maturity date. write-downs, impairments and the allowance for credit losses of fixed maturities, for the periods indicated: Available-for-Sale Held-to-Maturity (in millions) Fixed maturities: Due in one year or less 11,534 12,100 120 120 Due after one year through five years 51,323 55,272 526 602 Due after five years through ten years 68,938 78,293 87 89 Due after ten years(1) 190,467 233,459 931 1,201 Asset-backed securities 14,489 14,591 0 0 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 15,036 16,303 0 0 Residential mortgage-backed securities 2,683 2,887 266 286 Total 354,470 412,905 1,930 2,298 As of December 31, 2020, the gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity available-for-sale securities without an allowance were As of December 31, 2019, the gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities were composed of 973 million related to 1 In accordance with its policy described in Note 2, the Company concluded that an adjustment to earnings for credit losses The following table sets forth the amortized cost or amortized cost, net of allowance and fair value of fixed maturities by Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations. Asset- The following table sets forth the sources of fixed maturity proceeds and related investment gains (losses), as well as losses on Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. December 31, 2020 Cost, Net of Allowance 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 250 425 Table of Contents (1) Includes 470 million, 13 million and (238) million of non-cash related proceeds due to the timing of trade settlements for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. (in millions) Fixed maturities, available-for-sale: Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity: (2) For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, amounts exclude the portion of OTTI amounts remaining in OCI, representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. (3) For the year ended December 31, 2020, amounts represent write-downs of credit adverse securities, write-downs on securities approaching maturity related to foreign exchange movements and securities actively marketed for sale. (4) Effective January 1, 2020, credit losses on available-for-sale and held-to-maturity fixed maturity securities are recorded within the allowance for credit losses . (5) Includes less than 1 million, less than (1) million and less than (1) million of non-cash related proceeds due to the timing of trade settlements for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Proceeds from sales(1) 21,013 32,283 38,230 Proceeds from maturities prepayments 23,563 20,036 21,207 Gross investment gains from sales and maturities 1,690 1,715 1,412 Gross investment losses from sales and maturities (524) (434) (905) OTTI recognized in earnings(2) N A (315) (279) Write-downs recognized in earnings(3) (304) N A N A (Addition to) release of allowance for credit losses(4) (133) N A N A Proceeds from maturities prepayments(5) 88 99 94 (Addition to) release of allowance for credit losses(4) 0 N A N A Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2020 2019 2018 Years Ended December 31, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 251 425 Table of Contents primarily related to adverse projected cash flows on public and private corporate securities. Assets Supporting Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities indicated: Fixed maturities, available- for-sale: Balance, beginning of period 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Additions to allowance for Reductions for securities sold Additions (reductions) on Write-downs charged against Fixed maturities, held-to- maturity: Balance, beginning of period 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Cumulative effect of adoption credit losses not previously recorded 0 39 255 0 1 0 295 during the period 0 (39) (126) 0 0 0 (165) securities with previous allowance 0 0 5 0 9 0 14 the allowance 0 0 (11) 0 0 0 (11) of ASU 2016-13 0 0 9 0 0 0 9 Balance, end of period 0 0 123 0 10 0 133 Balance, end of period 0 0 9 0 0 0 9 The following tables set forth the activity in the allowance for credit losses for fixed maturity securities, as of the date indicated: See Note 2 for additional information about the Company s methodology for developing our allowance and expected losses. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the increase in the allowance for credit losses on available-for-sale securities was The Company did not have any fixed maturity securities purchased with credit deterioration, as of December 31, 2020. The following table sets forth the composition of Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, as of the dates Obligations of U.S. States Obligations of U.S. States Treasury Securities Treasury Securities Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Government Government Corporate Securities Corporate Securities U.S. and Foreign U.S. and Foreign Year Ended December 31, 2020 Year Ended December 31, 2020 (in millions) (in millions) Asset- Backed Securities Asset- Backed Securities Commercial Mortgage- Commercial Mortgage- Securities Securities Residential Mortgage- Residential Mortgage- Backed Securities Total Backed Securities Total 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 252 425 Table of Contents (1) Includes publicly-traded agency pass-through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. end, recorded within Other income (loss), was 726 million, 996 million and (778) million during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Equity Securities (loss), was 205 million, 943 million and (1,157) million during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Concentrations of Financial Instruments investment portfolio which limits exposure to any single issuer. Company s equity included securities of the U.S. government and certain U.S. government agencies and securities guaranteed by the U.S. government, as well as the securities disclosed below: December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 (in millions) Short-term investments and cash equivalents 658 658 277 277 Fixed maturities: Total fixed maturities(3) 20,119 21,414 18,904 19,530 Equity securities 1,661 2,043 1,465 1,790 (2) Includes collateralized loan obligations, auto loans, education loans, home equity and other asset types. Collateralized loan obligations at fair value were 1,102 million and 1,060 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, all of which were rated AAA. (3) As a percentage of amortized cost, 94% of the portfolio was considered high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent ratings, as of both December 31, 2020 and 2019. (4) As a percentage of amortized cost, 79% and 77% of the portfolio consisted of public securities as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Corporate securities 14,442 15,472 13,143 13,603 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 1,743 1,839 1,845 1,896 Residential mortgage-backed securities(1) 964 1,018 1,134 1,158 Asset-backed securities(2) 1,665 1,697 1,639 1,662 Foreign government bonds 934 945 802 814 U.S. government authorities and agencies and obligations of U.S. states 371 443 341 397 Total assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities(4) 22,438 24,115 20,646 21,597 The net change in unrealized gains (losses) from assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities still held at period The net change in unrealized gains (losses) from equity securities still held at period end, recorded within Other income As of the dates indicated, the Company s exposure to concentrations of credit risk of single issuers greater than 10% of the The Company monitors its concentrations of financial instruments and mitigates credit risk by maintaining a diversified Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 253 425 Table of Contents was due to the sale of POK, which was completed in August 2020. Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Investments in Japanese government and government agency securities: Fixed maturities, available-for-sale 80,273 92,764 74,118 89,546 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity 912 1,173 869 1,143 Fixed maturities, trading 25 25 23 23 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities 849 855 653 664 Investments in South Korean government and government agency securities: Fixed maturities, available-for-sale 26 33 10,823 13,322 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities 15 16 15 16 Total 82,059 94,817 75,663 91,376 Total 41 49 10,838 13,338 The decrease in South Korean government and government agency securities from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2020 The following table sets forth the composition of Commercial mortgage and other loans, as of the dates indicated: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 (in millions) (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 254 425 Table of Contents (1) Includes loans held for sale which are carried at fair value and are collateralized primarily by apartment complexes. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the net carrying value of these loans was 1,092 million and 228 million, respectively. dispersed throughout the United States (with the largest concentrations in California (28%), Texas (8%) and New York (7%)) and included loans secured by properties in Europe (8%), Australia (2%) and Asia (2%). December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans by property type: Office 12,750 19.7 % 13,462 21.4 % Retail 7,326 11.3 8,379 13.3 Apartments Multi-Family 18,330 28.3 17,348 27.6 Industrial 14,954 23.1 13,226 21.1 Hospitality 2,395 3.7 2,415 3.9 Other 4,981 7.7 4,533 7.2 Agricultural property loans 4,048 6.2 3,472 5.5 Allowance for credit losses (227) (117) Other loans: Uncollateralized loans 655 656 Residential property loans 101 124 Other collateralized loans 120 65 Allowance for credit losses (8) (4) Total commercial mortgage loans 60,736 93.8 59,363 94.5 Total commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans 64,784 100.0 % 62,835 100.0 % Total net commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans 64,557 62,718 Total other loans 876 845 Total net other loans 868 841 Total net commercial mortgage and other loans(1) 65,425 63,559 As of December 31, 2020, the commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans were secured by properties geographically Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. (in millions) (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 255 425 Table of Contents dates indicated: was primarily related to the cumulative effect of adoption of ASU 2016-13. Balance at December 31, 2017 97 3 1 0 5 106 Addition to (release of) allowance for credit losses 23 0 (1) 0 0 22 Charge-offs, net of recoveries 0 0 0 0 0 0 Balance at December 31, 2018 120 3 0 0 5 128 Addition to (release of) allowance for credit losses (5) 0 0 0 (1) (6) Charge-offs, net of recoveries (1) 0 0 0 0 (1) Balance at December 31, 2019 114 3 0 0 4 121 Cumulative effect of adoption of ASU 2016-13 110 5 0 0 0 115 Addition to (release of) allowance for expected losses 1 1 0 0 1 3 Write-downs charged against allowance (7) 0 0 0 0 (7) Other 0 0 0 3 0 3 Balance at December 31, 2020 218 9 0 3 5 235 The following table sets forth the activity in the allowance for credit losses for commercial mortgage and other loans, as of the See Note 2 for additional information about the Company s methodology for developing our allowance and expected losses. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the increase in the allowance for credit losses on commercial mortgage and other loans Commercial Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Agricultural PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Residential Property (in millions) Collateralized Uncollateralized Loans Total 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 256 425 Table of Contents losses, as of the date indicated: Commercial Mortgage Loans Loan-to-Value Ratio: 0%-59.99% 828 2,693 3,217 3,854 3,223 15,360 29,175 60%-69.99% 2,678 4,981 4,291 2,239 2,667 4,058 20,914 70%-79.99% 2,492 2,587 1,500 1,057 918 1,409 9,963 80% or greater 23 3 61 69 23 505 684 Debt Service Coverage Ratio: Greater or Equal to 1.2x 5,901 9,429 8,587 6,954 6,382 18,904 56,157 1.0 - 1.2x 118 711 383 263 384 1,719 3,578 Less than 1.0x 2 124 99 2 65 709 1,001 Agricultural Property Loans Loan-to-Value Ratio: 0%-59.99% 956 494 349 527 367 1,254 3,947 60%-69.99% 8 51 39 3 0 0 101 70%-79.99% 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 80% or greater 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Debt Service Coverage Ratio: Greater or Equal to 1.2x 941 544 381 468 308 1,202 3,844 1.0 - 1.2x 23 0 1 59 1 40 124 Less than 1.0x 0 1 6 3 58 12 80 Commercial mortgage loans Debt Service Coverage Ratio 1.2X 1.0X to 1.2X 1.0X Total Loan-to-Value Ratio: 0%-59.99% 31,027 701 217 31,945 60%-69.99% 17,090 1,145 42 18,277 70%-79.99% 8,020 719 28 8,767 80% or greater 209 143 22 374 Total commercial mortgage loans 56,346 2,708 309 59,363 Total 6,021 10,264 9,069 7,219 6,831 21,332 60,736 Total 6,021 10,264 9,069 7,219 6,831 21,332 60,736 Total 964 545 388 530 367 1,254 4,048 Total 964 545 388 530 367 1,254 4,048 The following tables set forth key credit quality indicators based upon the recorded investment gross of allowance for credit Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Prior Total PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Amortized Cost by Origination Year December 31, 2020 (in millions) December 31, 2019 (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 257 425 Table of Contents gross of allowance for credit losses, as well as the amount of commercial mortgage and other loans on non-accrual status, as of the dates indicated: (1) As of December 31, 2020, there were no loans in this category accruing interest. (1) As of December 31, 2019, there were no loans in this category accruing interest. these loans did not have a related allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2020. Agricultural property loans December 31, 2019 1.2X 1.0X to 1.2X 1.0X Total (in millions) Loan-to-Value Ratio: 0%-59.99% 3,289 57 14 3,360 60%-69.99% 112 0 0 112 70%-79.99% 0 0 0 0 80% or greater 0 0 0 0 Total agricultural property loans 3,401 57 14 3,472 December 31, 2020 (in millions) Commercial mortgage loans 60,614 3 119 0 122 60,736 5 Agricultural property loans 3,996 37 0 15 52 4,048 15 Residential property loans 99 1 0 1 2 101 1 Other collateralized loans 120 0 0 0 0 120 0 Uncollateralized loans 655 0 0 0 0 655 0 December 31, 2019 (in millions) Commercial mortgage loans 59,363 0 0 0 0 59,363 44 Agricultural property loans 3,458 1 0 13 14 3,472 13 Residential property loans 121 1 0 2 3 124 2 Other collateralized loans 65 0 0 0 0 65 0 Uncollateralized loans 656 0 0 0 0 656 0 (2) For additional information regarding the Company s policies for accruing interest on loans, see Note 2. (2) For additional information regarding the Company s policies for accruing interest on loans, see Note 2. Total 65,484 41 119 16 176 65,660 21 Total 63,663 2 0 15 17 63,680 59 See Note 2 for additional information about the Company s commercial mortgage and other loans credit quality monitoring The following tables set forth an aging of past due commercial mortgage and other loans based upon the recorded investment Loans on non-accrual status recognized interest income of 2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, and 15 million of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 30-59 Days 30-59 Days 60-89 Days 60-89 Days 90 Days or More Past 90 Days or More Past Debt Service Coverage Ratio Total Past Total Past Non-Accrual Non-Accrual Status(2) Status(2) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 258 425 Table of Contents December 31, 2020. Other Invested Assets (1) As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, real estate held through direct ownership had mortgage debt of 409 million and 537 million, respectively. (2) Primarily includes strategic investments made by investment management operations, leveraged leases and member and activity stock held in the Federal Home Loan Banks of New York and Boston. For additional information regarding the Company s holdings in the Federal Home Loan Banks of New York and Boston, see Note 17. investment fund referred to as a feeder fund. In these structures, the invested capital of several feeder funds is pooled together and used to purchase ownership interests in another fund, referred to as a master fund. The master fund utilizes this invested capital and, in certain cases, other debt financing, to purchase various classes of assets on behalf of its investors. Specialized industry accounting for investment companies calls for the feeder fund to reflect its investment in the master fund as a single net asset equal to its proportionate share of the net assets of the master fund, regardless of its level of interest in the master fund. In cases where the Company consolidates the feeder fund, it retains the feeder fund s net asset presentation and reports the consolidated feeder fund s proportionate share of the net assets of the master fund in Other invested assets, with any unaffiliated investors non-controlling interest in the feeder fund reported in Other liabilities or Noncontrolling interests. The consolidated feeder funds investments in these master funds, reflected on this net asset basis, totaled 459 million and 428 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. There was 201 million and 230 million of unaffiliated interest in the consolidated feeder funds as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and the master funds had gross assets of 54,123 million and 89,313 million, respectively, and gross liabilities of 50,706 million and 86,471 million, respectively, which are not included on the Company s balance sheet. (in millions) Real estate held through direct ownership(1) 2,027 2,388 Derivative instruments 1,915 877 Other(2) 1,300 1,184 Equity method: Fair value: Total LPs LLCs 12,883 11,157 The Company did not have any losses on commercial mortgage and other loans purchased with credit deterioration, as of The following table sets forth the composition of Other invested assets, as of the dates indicated: In certain investment structures, the Company s investment management business invests with other co-investors in an Private equity 4,605 3,625 Hedge funds 2,451 1,947 Real estate-related 1,691 1,372 Subtotal equity method 8,747 6,944 Private equity 1,786 1,705 Hedge funds 2,036 2,172 Real estate-related 314 336 Subtotal fair value 4,136 4,213 Total other invested assets 18,125 15,606 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. December 31, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 259 425 Table of Contents Equity Method Investments the equity method, including the Company s investments in operating joint ventures that are described in more detail in Note 9. Changes between periods in the tables below reflect changes in the activities within the operating joint ventures and LPs LLCs, as well as changes in the Company s level of investment in such entities: (1) Amount represents gross assets of each fund where the Company has a significant investment. These assets consist primarily of investments in real estate, investments in securities and other miscellaneous assets. (1) Amount represents gross revenue of each fund where the Company has a significant investment. This revenue consists of income from investments in real estate, investments in securities and other income. December 31, (in millions) STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION Total assets(1) 424,712 313,828 Total liabilities(2) 35,705 19,274 Partners capital 389,007 294,554 Total liabilities and partners capital included above 9,475 7,438 Equity in LP LLC interests not included above 666 814 Years Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS Total revenue(1) 42,964 11,430 6,264 Total expenses(2) (8,887) (5,800) (3,222) Equity in net earnings (losses) included above 744 525 233 Equity in net earnings (losses) of LP LLC interests not included above 28 11 14 (2) Amount represents gross liabilities of each fund where the Company has a significant investment. These liabilities consist primarily of third- party-borrowed funds, securities repurchase agreements and other miscellaneous liabilities. (2) Amount represents gross expenses of each fund where the Company has a significant investment. These expenses consist primarily of interest expense, investment management fees, salary expenses and other expenses. Total liabilities and partners capital 424,712 313,828 Carrying value 10,141 8,252 Net earnings (losses) 34,077 5,630 3,042 Total equity in net earnings (losses) 772 536 247 The following tables set forth summarized combined financial information for significant LP LLC interests accounted for under Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 260 425 Table of Contents Accrued Investment Income Net Investment Income (1) Includes income on credit-linked notes which are reported on the same financial statement line items as related surplus notes, as conditions are met for right to offset. assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities and less than 1 million in trading fixed maturities as of December 31, 2020. Non-income producing assets represent investments that had not produced income for the twelve months preceding December 31, 2020. Realized Investment Gains (Losses), Net (in millions) Fixed maturities 2,676 Equity securities 7 Commercial mortgage and other loans 205 Policy loans 274 Other invested assets 27 Short-term investments and cash equivalents 4 (in millions) Fixed maturities, available-for-sale(1) 12,339 12,644 11,989 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity(1) 235 232 226 Fixed maturities, trading 126 149 143 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities 700 731 722 Equity securities 162 160 164 Commercial mortgage and other loans 2,485 2,584 2,352 Policy loans 584 619 622 Other invested assets 1,318 1,005 519 Short-term investments and cash equivalents 197 453 345 Less: investment expenses (736) (992) (906) Gross investment income 18,146 18,577 17,082 Net investment income 17,410 17,585 16,176 The following table sets forth the composition of Accrued investment income, as of the date indicated: There was less than 1 million of write-downs on accrued investment income for the year ended December 31, 2020. The following table sets forth Net investment income by investment type, for the periods indicated: The carrying value of non-income producing assets included 389 million in available-for-sale fixed maturities, 29 million in The following table sets forth Realized investment gains (losses), net by investment type, for the periods indicated: Total accrued investment income 3,193 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. December 31, 2020 2019 2018 Years Ended December 31, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 261 425 Table of Contents (1) Includes fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-sale and held-to-maturity and excludes fixed maturity securities classified as trading. Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Investments within AOCI (1) Effective January 1, 2020, per ASU 2016-13, fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale are no longer required to be disclosed with OTTI and all other. Repurchase Agreements and Securities Lending transactions. The following table sets forth the composition of Securities sold under agreements to repurchase, as of the dates indicated: (in millions) Fixed maturities(1) 729 966 228 Commercial mortgage and other loans 103 44 49 Investment real estate (16) 78 84 LPs LLCs 2 (38) 17 Derivatives (4,715) (1,513) 1,597 Other 10 4 2 (in millions) Fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale with OTTI(1) N A 243 190 Fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale all other(1) N A 44,279 21,721 Fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale with an allowance (25) N A N A Fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale without an allowance 58,593 N A N A Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges(2) (168) 832 811 Derivatives designated as fair value hedges(2) 10 0 0 Other investments(3) 7 (15) (2) Net unrealized gains (losses) on investments 58,417 45,339 22,720 (2) For additional information on cash flow and fair value hedges, see Note 5. (3) As of December 31, 2020, there were no net unrealized losses on held-to-maturity securities that were previously transferred from available- for-sale. Includes net unrealized gains on certain joint ventures that are strategic in nature and are included in Other assets. Realized investment gains (losses), net (3,887) (459) 1,977 The following table sets forth net unrealized gains (losses) on investments, as of the dates indicated: In the normal course of business, the Company sells securities under agreements to repurchase and enters into securities lending Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 Years Ended December 31, December 31, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 262 425 Table of Contents (1) The Company did not have any agreements with remaining contractual maturities greater than thirty days, as of the dates indicated. cash collateral received for the following types of securities loaned, as of the dates indicated: (1) The Company did not have any agreements with remaining contractual maturities greater than thirty days, as of the dates indicated. Securities Pledged securities lending, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, collateralized borrowings and postings of collateral with derivative counterparties. The following table sets forth the carrying value of investments pledged to third parties, as of the dates indicated: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 9,548 546 10,094 9,431 0 9,431 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 463 0 463 0 0 0 Residential mortgage-backed securities 337 0 337 250 0 250 Total securities sold under agreements to repurchase(1) 10,348 546 10,894 9,681 0 9,681 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 0 0 0 9 0 9 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 108 0 108 33 0 33 Foreign government bonds 426 0 426 244 0 244 U.S. public corporate securities 2,360 0 2,360 2,996 0 2,996 Foreign public corporate securities 567 0 567 762 0 762 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 0 0 0 2 0 2 Equity securities 38 0 38 167 0 167 Total cash collateral for loaned securities(1) 3,499 0 3,499 4,213 0 4,213 The following table sets forth the composition of Cash collateral for loaned securities which represents the liability to return The Company pledges as collateral investment securities it owns to unaffiliated parties through certain transactions, including Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Continuous Overnight Continuous Overnight Remaining Contractual Remaining Contractual Maturities of the Maturities of the Agreements Agreements December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 (in millions) (in millions) Continuous Continuous Overnight Overnight Remaining Contractual Remaining Contractual Maturities of the Maturities of the Agreements Agreements 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 263 425 Table of Contents (1) Includes fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-sale and held-to-maturity and excludes fixed maturity securities classified as trading. dates indicated: sources of this collateral are securities in customer accounts, securities purchased under agreements to resell and postings of collateral from OTC derivative counterparties. The fair value of this collateral was approximately 8,872 million as of December 31, 2020 (the largest components of which included 252 million of securities and 8,620 million of cash from OTC derivative counterparties) and 7,729 million as of December 31, 2019 (the largest components of which included 1,012 million of securities and 6,717 million of cash from OTC derivative counterparties). A portion of the aforementioned securities, for both periods, had either been sold or repledged. Assets on Deposit, Held in Trust, and Restricted as to Sale (1) Represents assets held in voluntary trusts established primarily to fund guaranteed dividends to certain policyholders and to fund certain employee benefits. (in millions) Fixed maturities(1) 19,608 15,109 Fixed maturities, trading 67 58 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities 29 22 Separate account assets 3,191 2,547 Equity securities 416 543 Other 450 445 (2) Represents assets held in trust related to reinsurance agreements excluding reinsurance agreements between wholly-owned subsidiaries. Assets valued at 34.0 billion and 21.7 billion were held in trust related to reinsurance agreements between wholly-owned subsidiaries as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (3) Includes member and activity stock associated with memberships in the Federal Home Loan Banks of New York and Boston. (in millions) Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 10,894 9,681 Cash collateral for loaned securities 3,499 4,213 Separate account liabilities 3,249 2,624 (in millions) Assets on deposit with governmental authorities or trustees 31 30 Assets held in voluntary trusts(1) 539 58 Assets held in trust related to reinsurance and other agreements(2) 16,614 14,897 Securities restricted as to sale(3) 153 36 Total securities pledged 23,761 18,724 Total liabilities supported by the pledged collateral 17,642 16,518 Total assets on deposit, assets held in trust and securities restricted as to sale 17,337 15,021 The following table sets forth the carrying amount of the associated liabilities supported by the pledged collateral, as of the In the normal course of its business activities, the Company accepts collateral that can be sold or repledged. The primary The following table provides assets on deposit, assets held in trust, and securities restricted as to sale, as of the dates indicated: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. December 31, December 31, December 31, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 264 425 Table of Contents 4. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES entities that are deemed to be VIEs. A VIE is an entity that either (1) has equity investors that lack certain essential characteristics of a controlling financial interest (including the ability to control activities of the entity, the obligation to absorb the entity s expected losses and the right to receive the entity s expected residual returns) or (2) lacks sufficient equity to finance its own activities without financial support provided by other entities, which in turn would be expected to absorb at least some of the expected losses of the VIE. significantly impact the economic performance of the entity and (2) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could be potentially significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could be potentially significant. If the Company determines that it is the VIE s primary beneficiary, it consolidates the VIE. Consolidated Variable Interest Entities certain other vehicles for which the Company earns fee income for investment management services. The Company may sell or syndicate investments through these vehicles, principally as part of the strategic investing activity of the Company s investment management businesses. Additionally, the Company may invest in securities issued by these vehicles. The Company is also the investment manager of certain investment structures whose beneficial interests are wholly-owned by consolidated subsidiaries. primary beneficiary and consolidates these entities. This analysis includes a review of (1) the Company s rights and responsibilities as investment manager and (2) variable interests (if any) held by the Company. The assets of these VIEs are restricted and must be used first to settle liabilities of the VIE. The Company is not required to provide, and has not provided, material financial or other support to any of these VIEs. investment activities, but for which it is not the investment manager. These include structured investments issued by a VIE that manages yen-denominated investments coupled with cross-currency coupon swap agreements thereby creating synthetic dual currency investments. The Company s involvement in the structuring of these investments combined with its economic interest indicates that the Company is the primary beneficiary. The Company has not provided material financial support or other support that was not contractually required to these VIEs. are reported. The liabilities primarily comprise obligations under debt instruments issued by the VIEs. The creditors of these VIEs do not have recourse to the Company in excess of the assets contained within the VIEs. In the normal course of its activities, the Company enters into relationships with various special-purpose entities and other The Company is the primary beneficiary if the Company has (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most The Company is the investment manager of certain asset-backed investment vehicles, commonly referred to as CLOs, and The Company has analyzed these relationships and determined that for certain CLOs and other investment structures it is the Additionally, the Company is the primary beneficiary of certain VIEs in which the Company has invested, as part of its The table below reflects the carrying amount and balance sheet caption in which the assets and liabilities of consolidated VIEs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 265 425 Table of Contents (1) Total assets of consolidated VIEs reflect 2,538 million and 2,668 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, related to VIEs whose beneficial interests are wholly-owned by consolidated subsidiaries. (2) Recourse is limited to the assets of the respective VIE and does not extend to the general credit of the Company. As of December 31, 2020, the maturity of this obligation was within 4 years. Unconsolidated Variable Interest Entities These VIEs consist primarily of CLOs and investment funds for which the Company has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary as it does not have both (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the economic performance of the entity and (2) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could be potentially significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could be potentially significant. The Company s maximum exposure to loss resulting from its relationship with unconsolidated VIEs for which it is the investment manager is limited to its investment in the VIEs, which was 935 million and 1,021 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. These investments are reflected in Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, Fixed maturities, trading, Equity securities and Other invested assets. There are no liabilities associated with these unconsolidated VIEs on the Company s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. real estate-related funds and may or may not be VIEs. The Company s maximum exposure to loss on these investments, both VIEs and non-VIEs, is limited to the amount of its investment. The Company has determined that it is not required to consolidate these entities because either (1) it does not control them or (2) it does not have the obligation to absorb losses of these entities that could be potentially significant to the entities or the right to receive benefits from the entities that could be potentially significant. The Company classifies these investments as Other invested assets and its maximum exposure to loss associated with these entities was 12,883 million and 11,157 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. is not the investment manager. These structured investments typically invest in fixed income investments and are managed by third parties and include asset-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and residential mortgage-backed securities. The Company s maximum exposure to loss on these structured investments, both VIEs and non-VIEs, is limited to the amount of its investment. See Note 3 for details regarding the carrying amounts and classification of these assets. The Company has not provided material financial or other support that was not contractually required to these structures. The Company has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of these structures due to the fact that it does not control these entities. December 31, December 31, 2020 2019 2020 2019 (in millions) Fixed maturities, available-for-sale 110 104 296 285 Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity 87 83 882 839 Fixed maturities, trading 160 1,112 0 0 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities 0 0 0 4 Equity securities 42 47 0 0 Commercial mortgage and other loans 975 883 0 0 Other invested assets 2,221 2,199 127 89 Cash and cash equivalents 101 166 0 0 Accrued investment income 2 4 4 4 Other assets 594 450 768 689 Other liabilities 256 304 2 13 Notes issued by consolidated VIEs(2) 305 1,274 0 0 Total assets of consolidated VIEs 4,292 5,048 2,077 1,910 Total liabilities of consolidated VIEs 561 1,578 2 13 The Company has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of certain VIEs for which it is the investment manager. In the normal course of its activities, the Company will invest in LPs LLCs which include hedge funds, private equity funds and In addition, in the normal course of its activities, the Company will invest in structured investments including VIEs for which it Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Consolidated VIEs for which Investment Manager(1) Other Consolidated VIEs(1) the Company is the 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 266 425 Table of Contents 5. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING Types of Derivative and Hedging Instruments Interest Rate Contracts rate exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities and to hedge against changes in their values it owns or anticipates acquiring or selling. Company agrees with counterparties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed upon notional principal amount. into a swap with a forward starting effective date. The Company pays a premium for purchased swaptions and receives a premium for written swaptions. In an interest rate cap, the buyer receives payments at the end of each period in which the interest rate exceeds the agreed strike price. Similarly, in an interest rate floor, the buyer receives payments at the end of each period in which the interest rate is below the agreed strike price. Swaptions, caps and floors are included in interest rate options. contracts, the values of which are determined by the daily market values of underlying referenced investments. The Company enters into exchange-traded futures with regulated futures commission s merchants who are members of a trading exchange. Equity Contracts impacts the value of assets and liabilities it owns or anticipates acquiring or selling. exercise and the strike price. The Company uses combinations of purchases and sales of equity index options to hedge the effects of adverse changes in equity indices within a predetermined range. difference between the return on an asset (or market index) and London Inter-Bank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) plus an associated funding spread based on a notional amount. The Company generally uses total return swaps to hedge the effect of adverse changes in equity indices. the values of which are determined by the daily market values of underlying referenced equity indices. The Company enters into exchange-traded futures with regulated futures commission s merchants who are members of a trading exchange. Foreign Exchange Contracts used by the Company to reduce risks from changes in currency exchange rates with respect to investments denominated in foreign currencies that the Company either holds or intends to acquire or sell, and to hedge the currency risk associated with net investments in foreign operations and anticipated earnings of its foreign operations. specified future date. Typically, the price is agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for such a contract is made at the specified future date. As noted above, the Company uses currency forwards to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings generated by certain of its non-U.S. businesses, primarily its international insurance and investment operations. The Company executes forward sales of the hedged currency in exchange for U.S. dollars at a specified exchange rate. The maturities of these forwards correspond with the future periods in which the non-U.S. dollar-denominated earnings are expected to be generated. Interest rate swaps, options and futures are used by the Company to reduce risks from changes in interest rates, manage interest Swaps may be attributed to specific assets or liabilities or to a portfolio of assets or liabilities. Under interest rate swaps, the The Company also uses interest rate swaptions, caps, and floors to manage interest rate risk. A swaption is an option to enter In standardized exchange-traded interest rate futures transactions, the Company purchases or sells a specified number of Equity options, total return swaps, and futures are used by the Company to manage its exposure to the equity markets which Equity index options are contracts which will settle in cash based on differentials in the underlying indices at the time of Total return swaps are contracts whereby the Company agrees with counterparties to exchange, at specified intervals, the In standardized exchange-traded equity futures transactions, the Company purchases or sells a specified number of contracts, Currency derivatives, including currency futures, options, forwards and swaps, and foreign currency denominated debts are Under currency forwards, the Company agrees with counterparties to deliver a specified amount of an identified currency at a Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 267 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 268 425 Table of Contents currency and another at an exchange rate and calculated by reference to an agreed principal amount. Generally, the principal amount of each currency is exchanged at the beginning and termination of the currency swap by each party. functional currency of its foreign subsidiaries) to hedge the risk of change in the net investment in a foreign subsidiary due to changes in exchange rates. These debt obligations reduce the company s foreign currency exposure from equity investment and act as hedge of the investment. The Company assesses hedge effectiveness of its derivatives based upon the change in forward rates and assesses its foreign currency denominated debts based upon the change in spot rates. Credit Contracts these derivatives the Company sells credit protection on a single name reference, or certain index reference, and in return receives a quarterly premium. This premium or credit spread generally corresponds to the difference between the yield on the referenced name (or an index s referenced names) public fixed maturity cash instruments and swap rates, at the time the agreement is executed. If there is an event of default by the referenced name or one of the referenced names in the index, as defined by the agreement, then the Company is obligated to pay the referenced amount of the contract to the counterparty and receive in return the referenced defaulted security or similar security (in the case of a credit default index) or pay the referenced amount less the auction recovery rate. See credit derivatives section for further discussion of guarantees. In addition to selling credit protection, the Company purchases credit protection using credit derivatives to hedge specific credit exposures in the Company s investment portfolio. Other Contracts investment risk and return of mortgage-backed securities. TBA transactions can help the Company enhance the return on its investment portfolio, and can provide a more liquid and cost-effective method of achieving these goals than purchasing or selling individual mortgage-backed pools. Typically, the price is agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for such a contract is made at a specified future date. Additionally, pursuant to the Company s mortgage dollar roll program, TBAs or mortgage-backed securities are transferred to counterparties with a corresponding agreement to repurchase them at a future date. These transactions do not qualify as secured borrowings and are accounted for as derivatives. specified interest rates and other applicable terms within specified periods of time. These commitments are legally binding agreements to extend credit to a counterparty. Loan commitments for loans that will be held for sale are recognized as derivatives and recorded at fair value. The determination of the fair value of loan commitments accounted for as derivatives considers various factors including, among others, terms of the related loan, the intended exit strategy for the loans based upon either securitization valuation models or investor purchase commitments, prevailing interest rates, origination income or expense, and the value of service rights. Loan commitments that relate to the origination of mortgage loans that will be held for investment are not accounted for as derivatives and accordingly are not recognized in the Company s financial statements. See Note 23 for additional information. benefit features that are accounted for as embedded derivatives. These embedded derivatives are carried at fair value through Realized investment gains (losses), net based on the change in value of the underlying contractual guarantees, which are determined using valuation models. The Company maintains a portfolio of derivative instruments that is intended to offset certain risks related to the above products features. The derivatives may include, but are not limited to equity options, equity futures, total return swaps, interest rate swaptions, caps, floors and other instruments. investment vehicles primarily used by qualified defined contribution pension plans. The synthetic GICs are issued in respect of assets that are owned by the trustees of such plans, who invest the assets according to the contract terms agreed to with the Company. The contracts establish participant balances and credit interest thereon. The participant balances are supported by the underlying assets. In connection with certain participant-initiated withdrawals, the contract guarantees that after all underlying assets are liquidated, any remaining participant balances will be paid by the Company. These contracts are accounted for as derivatives and recorded at fair value. Under currency swaps, the Company agrees with counterparties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between one Under foreign currency denominated debts, the company uses portion of its foreign currency denominated debt (same The Company writes credit default swaps to gain exposure similar to investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments. With To Be Announced ( TBA ) Forward Contracts. The Company uses TBA forward contracts to gain exposure to the Loan Commitments. In its mortgage operations, the Company enters into commitments to fund commercial mortgage loans at Embedded Derivatives. The Company offers certain products (for example, variable annuities) which may include guaranteed Synthetic Guarantees. The Company sells synthetic GICs, through both full service and investment-only sales channels, to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 269 425 Table of Contents Primary Risks Managed by Derivatives underlying risks, excluding embedded derivatives and associated reinsurance recoverables. Many derivative instruments contain multiple underlying risks. The fair value amounts below represent the value of derivative contracts prior to taking into account the netting effects of master netting agreements and cash collateral. This netting impact results in total derivative assets of 1,906 million and 867 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and total derivative liabilities of 792 million and 831 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 (in millions) Derivatives Designated as Hedge Accounting Instruments: Interest Rate Interest Rate Swaps 3,065 978 (90) 3,257 628 (73) Interest Rate Forwards 249 0 (8) 205 4 (1) Foreign Currency Foreign Currency Forwards 2,577 68 (116) 1,461 22 (57) Currency Interest Rate Foreign Currency Swaps 22,642 878 (1,037) 22,746 1,467 (302) Total Derivatives Designated as Hedge Accounting Instruments 28,533 1,924 (1,251) 27,669 2,121 (433) Derivatives Not Qualifying as Hedge Accounting Instruments: Interest Rate Interest Rate Swaps 178,803 17,174 (13,172) 141,162 10,249 (4,861) Interest Rate Futures 15,778 99 (5) 17,095 4 (38) Interest Rate Options 14,593 914 (233) 16,496 339 (238) Interest Rate Forwards 2,910 25 0 2,218 18 (3) Foreign Currency Foreign Currency Forwards 35,478 764 (647) 26,604 208 (214) Foreign Currency Options 0 0 0 0 0 0 Currency Interest Rate Foreign Currency Swaps 13,661 537 (601) 13,874 740 (345) Credit Credit Default Swaps 3,360 63 (28) 798 21 0 Equity Equity Futures 5,668 10 (25) 1,802 0 (3) Equity Options 36,250 1,731 (1,028) 32,657 679 (765) Total Return Swaps 22,489 32 (1,277) 18,218 6 (636) Other Other(1) 1,262 0 0 1,258 0 0 Synthetic GICs 86,264 0 0 80,009 1 0 Total Derivatives Not Qualifying as Hedge Accounting Instruments 416,516 21,349 (17,016) 352,191 12,265 (7,103) Total Derivatives(2)(3) 445,049 23,273 (18,267) 379,860 14,386 (7,536) The table below provides a summary of the gross notional amount and fair value of derivatives contracts by the primary Primary Underlying Risk Instrument Type Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Notional Assets Liabilities Notional Assets Liabilities Gross Fair Value Gross Fair Value 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 270 425 Table of Contents (1) Other primarily includes derivative contracts used to improve the balance of the Company s tail longevity and mortality risk. Under these contracts, the Company s gains (losses) are capped at the notional amount. the carrying amount of the hedged assets (liabilities) and cumulative basis adjustments included in the carrying amount for fair value hedges: (1) There were no material fair value hedging adjustments for hedged assets and liabilities for which hedge accounting has been discontinued. economically hedge embedded derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting because changes in the fair value of the embedded derivatives are already recorded in net income (ii) derivatives that are utilized as macro hedges of the Company s exposure to various risks typically do not qualify for hedge accounting because they do not meet the criteria required under portfolio hedge accounting rules and (iii) synthetic GIC, which are product standalone derivatives, do not qualify as hedging instruments under hedge accounting rules. Offsetting Assets and Liabilities recoverables), and repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements that are offset in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, and or are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement, irrespective of whether they are offset in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position: Balance Sheet Line Item in which Hedged Item is Recorded Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value 402 79 389 64 Commercial mortgage and other loans 20 2 23 2 Policyholders account balances (1,627) (303) (1,376) (107) Future policy benefits (1,585) (372) (676) (172) December 31, 2020 (in millions) Offsetting of Financial Assets: Derivatives(1) 23,144 (21,367) 1,777 (806) 971 Securities purchased under agreement to resell 252 0 252 (252) 0 Total Assets 23,396 (21,367) 2,029 (1,058) 971 Offsetting of Financial Liabilities: Derivatives(1) 18,265 (17,475) 790 (790) 0 Securities sold under agreement to repurchase 10,894 0 10,894 (10,432) 462 Total Liabilities 29,159 (17,475) 11,684 (11,222) 462 (2) Excludes embedded derivatives and associated reinsurance recoverables which contain multiple underlying risks. The fair value of these embedded derivatives was a net liability of 20,119 million and 14,035 million as of December 31, 2020, and 2019, respectively, primarily included in Future policy benefits. (3) Recorded in Other invested assets and Other liabilities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. As of December 31, 2020, the following amounts were recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position related to Most of the Company s derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting for various reasons. For example: (i) derivatives that The following table presents recognized derivative instruments (excluding embedded derivatives and associated reinsurance Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Carrying Amount of the Hedged Assets PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. (Liabilities) December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Instruments Amounts of Recognized Financial Fair Value Hedging Adjustment Included Assets (Liabilities)(1) Carrying Amount of Cumulative Amount the Hedged Statements of Offset in the Financial Position (in millions) Carrying Amount of the Hedged Assets the Statements Net Amounts Presented in of Financial (Liabilities) Instruments Collateral(1) Fair Value Hedging Adjustment Included Assets (Liabilities)(1) Carrying Amount of Cumulative Amount the Hedged 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 271 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 272 425 Table of Contents (1) Amounts exclude the excess of collateral received pledged from to the counterparty. Counterparty Credit Risk below. For securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, the Company monitors the value of the securities and maintains collateral, as appropriate, to protect against credit exposure. Where the Company has entered into repurchase and resale agreements with the same counterparty, in the event of default, the Company would generally be permitted to exercise rights of offset. For additional information on the Company s accounting policy for securities repurchase and resale agreements, see Note 2. Cash Flow, Fair Value and Net Investment Hedges relationships are interest rate swaps, currency swaps, currency forwards, and foreign currency denominated debts. These instruments are only designated for hedge accounting in instances where the appropriate criteria are met. The Company does not use futures, options, credit, and equity derivatives in any of its fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge accounting relationships. qualifying hedge relationships, including the offset of the hedged item in fair value hedge relationships. December 31, 2019 (in millions) Offsetting of Financial Assets: Derivatives(1) 14,303 (13,519) 784 (607) 177 Securities purchased under agreement to resell 1,012 0 1,012 (1,012) 0 Total Assets 15,315 (13,519) 1,796 (1,619) 177 Offsetting of Financial Liabilities: Derivatives(1) 7,528 (6,705) 823 (244) 579 Securities sold under agreement to repurchase 9,681 0 9,681 (9,681) 0 Total Liabilities 17,209 (6,705) 10,504 (9,925) 579 For information regarding the rights of offset associated with the derivative assets and liabilities in the table above, see The primary derivative instruments used by the Company in its fair value, cash flow and net investment hedge accounting The following table provides the financial statement classification and impact of derivatives used in qualifying and non- Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Instruments Amounts of Recognized Financial Statements of Offset in the Financial Position the Statements Net Amounts Presented in of Financial Instruments Collateral(1) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 273 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 274 425 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2020 Derivatives Designated as Hedge Accounting Instruments: Fair value hedges Gains (losses) on derivatives designated as hedge instruments: Interest Rate (17) (8) 0 0 236 186 0 Currency 0 0 0 0 0 46 0 Gains (losses) on the hedged item: Interest Rate 16 18 0 0 (196) (155) 0 Currency 0 1 0 0 0 (46) 0 Currency 0 0 0 0 0 (1) 10 Cash flow hedges Interest Rate 40 1 0 (1) 0 0 7 Currency 5 0 0 0 0 0 (69) Currency Interest Rate 99 314 (303) 0 0 0 (938) Net investment hedges Currency (7) 0 126 0 0 0 (128) Currency Interest Rate 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Derivatives Not Qualifying as Hedge Accounting Instruments: Interest Rate 5,800 0 0 0 0 0 0 Currency 100 0 (1) 0 0 0 0 Currency Interest Rate (188) 0 (4) 0 0 0 0 Credit (56) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Equity (5,623) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 Embedded Derivatives (4,882) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total gains (losses) on derivatives designated as hedge instruments (17) (8) 0 0 236 232 0 Total gains (losses) on hedged item 16 19 0 0 (196) (201) 0 Amortization for Gain (Loss) Excluded from Assessment of the Effectiveness Total Amortization for Gain (Loss) Excluded from Assessment of the Effectiveness 0 0 0 0 0 (1) 10 Total gains (losses) on fair value hedges net of hedged item (1) 11 0 0 40 30 10 Total gains (losses) on cash flow hedges 144 315 (303) (1) 0 0 (1,000) Total gains (losses) on net investment hedges (7) 0 126 0 0 0 (128) Total gains (losses) on derivatives not qualifying as hedge accounting instruments (4,847) 0 (5) 0 0 0 0 Total (4,711) 326 (182) (1) 40 30 (1,118) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Investment PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Investment (in millions) Policyholders Policyholders Benefits AOCI(1) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 275 425 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2019 Derivatives Designated as Hedge Accounting Instruments: Fair value hedges Gains (losses) on derivatives designated as hedge instruments: Interest Rate (14) (7) 0 0 194 155 0 Currency 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Gains (losses) on the hedged item: Interest Rate 11 20 0 0 (186) (140) 0 Currency 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 Cash flow hedges Interest Rate 58 0 0 0 0 0 (25) Currency 6 0 0 0 0 0 (62) Currency Interest Rate 130 282 (97) 0 0 0 99 Net investment hedges Currency 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 Currency Interest Rate 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Derivatives Not Qualifying as Hedge Accounting Instruments: Interest Rate 4,533 0 0 0 0 0 0 Currency 14 0 5 0 0 0 0 Currency Interest Rate 394 0 0 0 0 0 0 Credit 123 0 0 0 0 0 0 Equity (4,057) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Embedded Derivatives (2,705) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total gains (losses) on derivatives designated as hedge instruments (14) (7) 0 0 194 155 0 Total gains (losses) on hedged item 12 23 0 0 (186) (140) 0 Total gains (losses) on fair value hedges net of hedged item (2) 16 0 0 8 15 0 Total gains (losses) on cash flow hedges 194 282 (97) 0 0 0 12 Total gains (losses) on net investment hedges 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 Total gains (losses) on derivatives not qualifying as hedge accounting instruments (1,698) 0 5 0 0 0 0 Total (1,506) 298 (92) 0 8 15 16 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Investment Gains (Losses) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Investment (in millions) Policyholders Policyholders Benefits AOCI(1) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 276 425 Table of Contents (1) Net change in AOCI, excluding changes related to net investment hedges using non-derivative instruments of (21) million for year ended December 31, 2020 and 0 million for both year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. Year Ended December 31, 2018 Derivatives Designated as Hedge Accounting Instruments: Fair value hedges Gains (losses) on derivatives designated as hedge instruments: Interest Rate 20 (9) 0 0 (65) 35 0 Currency 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 Gains (losses) on the hedged item: Interest Rate (27) 31 0 0 79 (31) 0 Currency (5) 3 0 0 0 0 0 Cash flow hedges Interest Rate 2 0 0 (1) 0 0 32 Currency 7 0 0 0 0 0 20 Currency Interest Rate 69 217 257 0 0 0 798 Net investment hedges Currency 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 Currency Interest Rate 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Derivatives Not Qualifying as Hedge Accounting Instruments: Interest Rate (1,226) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Currency 342 0 (1) 0 0 0 0 Currency Interest Rate 364 0 3 0 0 0 0 Credit (55) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Equity 1,121 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Embedded Derivatives 966 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total gains (losses) on derivatives designated as hedge instruments 26 (9) 0 0 (65) 35 0 Total gains (losses) on hedged item (32) 34 0 0 79 (31) 0 Total gains (losses) on fair value hedges net of hedged item (6) 25 0 0 14 4 0 Total gains (losses) on cash flow hedges 78 217 257 (1) 0 0 850 Total gains (losses) on net investment hedges 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 Total gains (losses) on derivatives not qualifying as hedge accounting instruments 1,512 0 2 0 0 0 0 Total 1,584 242 259 (1) 14 4 856 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Investment PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Investment (in millions) Policyholders Policyholders Benefits AOCI(1) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 277 425 Table of Contents (losses) in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income these amounts are then reclassified to earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. Using December 31, 2020 values, it is estimated that a pre-tax gain of approximately 230 million is expected to be reclassified from AOCI to earnings during the subsequent twelve months ending December 31, 2021. forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies, the purchases of invested assets, and the receipt or payment of variable interest on existing financial instruments. The maximum length of time over which the Company is hedging its exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecasted transactions is 10 years. (1) See Note 2 for details. Balance, December 31, 2017 (39) Amount recorded in AOCI Interest Rate 33 Currency 27 Currency Interest Rate 1,341 Total amount recorded in AOCI 1,401 Amount reclassified from AOCI to income Interest Rate (1) Currency (7) Currency Interest Rate (543) Total amount reclassified from AOCI to income (551) Balance, December 31, 2018 811 Cumulative effect adjustment from the adoption of ASU 2017-12(1) 9 Amount recorded in AOCI Interest Rate 33 Currency (56) Currency Interest Rate 414 Total amount recorded in AOCI 391 Amount reclassified from AOCI to income Interest Rate (58) Currency (6) Currency Interest Rate (315) Total amount reclassified from AOCI to income (379) Balance, December 31, 2019 832 Amount recorded in AOCI Interest Rate 47 Currency (64) Currency Interest Rate (828) Total amount recorded in AOCI (845) Amount reclassified from AOCI to income Interest Rate (40) Currency (5) Currency Interest Rate (110) Total amount reclassified from AOCI to income (155) Balance, December 31, 2020 (168) Presented below is a rollforward of current period cash flow hedges in AOCI before taxes: The changes in fair value of cash flow hedges are deferred in AOCI and are included in Net unrealized investment gains The exposures the Company is hedging with these qualifying cash flow hedges include the variability of future cash flows from Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 278 425 Table of Contents cash flow hedge accounting because the forecasted transaction did not occur by the anticipated date or within the additional time period permitted by the authoritative guidance for the accounting for derivatives and hedging. In addition, there were no instances in which the Company discontinued fair value hedge accounting due to a hedged firm commitment no longer qualifying as a fair value hedge. change in the net investment in a foreign subsidiary due to changes in exchange rates. For effective net investment hedges, the amounts, before applicable taxes, recorded in the cumulative translation adjustment within AOCI were (149) million for the year ended December 31, 2020, 4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, and 6 million for the year ended December 31 2018. Credit Derivatives amount at risk under these credit derivatives, assuming the value of the underlying referenced securities become worthless, is equal to the notional amounts. These credit derivatives have maturities of less than 27 years for index references. (1) The NAIC rating designations are based on availability and the lowest ratings among Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ("Moody's"), Standard & Poor s Rating Services ( S&P ) and Fitch Ratings Inc. ( Fitch ). If no rating is available from a rating agency, a NAIC 6 rating is used. (2) Single name credit default swaps may reference to the credit of corporate debt, sovereign debt, and structured finance. Index references NAIC designations are based on the lowest rated single name reference included in the index. specific credit exposures in the Company s investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company had 307 million and 6 million of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as a liability of 28 million and 0 million, respectively. Counterparty Credit Risk Single name reference(2) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Index reference(2) 50 0 0 0 3,003 63 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,053 63 Total 50 0 0 0 3,003 63 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,053 63 Single name reference(2) 36 0 60 1 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 100 1 Index reference(2) 50 0 0 0 570 13 0 0 0 0 72 7 692 20 Total 86 0 60 1 574 13 0 0 0 0 72 7 792 21 There were no material amounts reclassified from AOCI into earnings relating to instances in which the Company discontinued For net investment hedges, in addition to derivatives, the Company uses foreign currency denominated debt to hedge the risk of The following table provides a summary of the notional and fair value of written credit protection. The Company s maximum In addition to writing credit protection, the Company has purchased credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge NAIC 1 NAIC 2 NAIC 3 NAIC 4 NAIC 5 NAIC 6 Total NAIC 1 NAIC 2 NAIC 3 NAIC 4 NAIC 5 NAIC 6 Total Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) NAIC Rating Designation of Underlying Credit Obligation(1) NAIC Rating Designation of Underlying Credit Obligation(1) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 (in millions) (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 279 425 Table of Contents positive fair value. The Company manages credit risk by: (i) entering into derivative transactions with highly rated major international financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties governed by master netting agreements, as applicable (ii) trading through central clearing and OTC parties (iii) obtaining collateral, such as cash and securities, when appropriate and (iv) setting limits on single party credit exposures which are subject to periodic management review. party in a liability position. In addition, certain of the Company s derivative agreements contain credit-risk related contingent features if the credit rating of one of the parties to the derivative agreement is to fall below a certain level, the party with positive fair value could request termination at the then fair value or demand immediate full collateralization from the party whose credit rating fell and is in a net liability position. features. All derivatives have been appropriately collateralized by the Company or the counterparty in accordance with the terms of the derivative agreements. 6. FAIR VALUE OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The authoritative fair value guidance establishes a framework for measuring fair value that includes a hierarchy used to classify the inputs used in measuring fair value. The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows: assets or liabilities. The Company s Level 1 assets and liabilities primarily include certain cash equivalents and short-term investments, equity securities and derivative contracts that trade on an active exchange market. or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability through corroboration with observable market data. Level 2 inputs include quoted market prices in active markets for similar assets and liabilities, quoted market prices in markets that are not active for identical or similar assets or liabilities, and other market observable inputs. The Company s Level 2 assets and liabilities include: fixed maturities (corporate public and private bonds, most government securities, certain asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities, etc.), certain equity securities (mutual funds, which do not trade in active markets because they are not publicly available), certain commercial mortgage loans, short-term investments and certain cash equivalents (primarily commercial paper), and certain OTC derivatives. this category may require significant judgment or estimation in determining the fair value. The Company s Level 3 assets and liabilities primarily include: certain private fixed maturities and equity securities, certain manually priced public equity securities and fixed maturities, certain highly structured OTC derivative contracts, certain consolidated real estate funds for which the Company is the general partner and embedded derivatives resulting from certain products with guaranteed benefits. value on a recurring basis, as of the dates indicated: The Company is exposed to losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial derivative transactions with a Substantially all of the Company s derivative agreements have zero thresholds which require daily full collateralization by the As of December 31, 2020, there were no net liability derivative positions with counterparties with credit risk-related contingent Fair Value Measurement Fair value represents the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability Level 1 Fair value is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible to the Company for identical Level 2 Fair value is based on significant inputs, other than quoted prices included in Level 1, that are observable for the asset Level 3 Fair value is based on at least one significant unobservable input for the asset or liability. The assets and liabilities in Assets and Liabilities by Hierarchy Level The tables below present the balances of assets and liabilities reported at fair Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 280 425 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2020 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Netting(1) Total (in millions) Fixed maturities, available-for-sale: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 0 40,298 150 40,448 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 0 12,807 4 12,811 Foreign government bonds 0 110,233 11 110,244 U.S. corporate public securities 0 113,486 69 113,555 U.S. corporate private securities(2) 0 38,689 2,248 40,937 Foreign corporate public securities 0 29,384 153 29,537 Foreign corporate private securities 0 28,727 2,865 31,592 Asset-backed securities(3) 0 14,068 523 14,591 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 0 16,294 9 16,303 Residential mortgage-backed securities 0 2,876 11 2,887 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 0 212 0 212 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 0 231 0 231 Foreign government bonds 0 926 19 945 Corporate securities 0 14,990 482 15,472 Asset-backed securities(3) 0 1,583 114 1,697 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 0 1,839 0 1,839 Residential mortgage-backed securities 0 1,018 0 1,018 Equity securities 1,784 259 0 2,043 All other(4) 50 549 20 619 Fixed maturities, trading 0 3,671 243 3,914 Equity securities 6,207 1,131 660 7,998 Commercial mortgage and other loans 0 1,092 0 1,092 Other invested assets(5) 227 23,045 366 (21,367) 2,271 Short-term investments 405 5,728 177 6,310 Cash equivalents 1,476 4,005 1 5,482 Other assets 0 0 268 268 Separate account assets(6)(7) 51,826 250,623 1,821 304,270 Future policy benefits(8) 0 0 18,879 18,879 Policyholders account balances 0 0 1,914 1,914 Other liabilities 32 17,828 0 (17,475) 385 Notes issued by consolidated VIEs 0 0 0 0 Subtotal 0 406,862 6,043 412,905 Subtotal 1,834 21,607 635 24,076 Total assets 61,975 717,764 10,214 (21,367) 768,586 Total liabilities 32 17,828 20,793 (17,475) 21,178 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 281 425 Table of Contents (1) Netting amounts represent cash collateral of 3,892 million and 6,814 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (2) Excludes notes with fair value of 6,100 million (carrying amount of 5,966 million) and 4,757 million (carrying amount of 4,751 million) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, which have been offset with the associated payables under a netting agreement. (3) Includes credit-tranched securities collateralized by syndicated bank loans, sub-prime mortgages, auto loans, credit cards, education loans and other asset types. (4) All other represents cash equivalents and short-term investments. (5) Other invested assets excluded from the fair value hierarchy include certain hedge funds, private equity funds and other funds for which fair value is measured at net asset value ( NAV ) per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the fair values of such investments were 4,136 million and 4,213 million respectively. (6) Separate account assets included in the fair value hierarchy exclude investments in entities that calculate NAV per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient. Such investments excluded from the fair value hierarchy include investments in real estate, hedge funds and other invested assets. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the fair value of such investments were 23,007 million and 23,557 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Netting(1) Total (in millions) Fixed maturities, available-for-sale: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 0 35,554 105 35,659 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 0 11,493 4 11,497 Foreign government bonds 0 119,032 22 119,054 U.S. corporate public securities 0 97,959 380 98,339 U.S. corporate private securities(2) 0 34,749 1,784 36,533 Foreign corporate public securities 0 29,756 69 29,825 Foreign corporate private securities 0 27,237 1,003 28,240 Asset-backed securities(3) 0 12,238 936 13,174 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 0 15,574 0 15,574 Residential mortgage-backed securities 0 3,189 12 3,201 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 0 185 0 185 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 0 212 0 212 Foreign government bonds 0 790 24 814 Corporate securities 0 12,966 637 13,603 Asset-backed securities(3) 0 1,593 69 1,662 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 0 1,896 0 1,896 Residential mortgage-backed securities 0 1,158 0 1,158 Equity securities 1,505 285 0 1,790 All other(4) 0 261 0 261 Fixed maturities, trading 0 3,597 287 3,884 Equity securities 5,813 939 633 7,385 Commercial mortgage and other loans 0 228 0 228 Other invested assets(5) 6 14,379 567 (13,519) 1,433 Short-term investments 1,806 1,975 155 3,936 Cash equivalents 2,079 6,796 131 9,006 Other assets 0 0 113 113 Separate account assets(6)(7) 46,574 240,433 1,717 288,724 Future policy benefits(8) 0 0 12,831 12,831 Policyholders account balances 0 0 1,316 1,316 Other liabilities 41 7,495 105 (6,705) 936 Notes issued by consolidated VIEs 0 0 800 800 Subtotal 0 386,781 4,315 391,096 Subtotal 1,505 19,346 730 21,581 Total assets 57,783 674,474 8,648 (13,519) 727,386 Total liabilities 41 7,495 15,052 (6,705) 15,883 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 282 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 283 425 Table of Contents (7) Separate account assets represent segregated funds that are invested for certain customers. Investment risks associated with market value changes are borne by the customers, except to the extent of minimum guarantees made by the Company with respect to certain accounts. Separate account liabilities are not included in the above table as they are reported at contract value and not fair value in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. recurring basis are summarized below. obtained from independent pricing services. Prices for each security are generally sourced from multiple pricing vendors, and a vendor hierarchy is maintained by asset type based on historical pricing experience and vendor expertise. The Company ultimately uses the price from the pricing service highest in the vendor hierarchy based on the respective asset type. The pricing hierarchy is updated for new financial products and recent pricing experience with various vendors. Consistent with the fair value hierarchy described above, securities with validated quotes from pricing services are generally reflected within Level 2, as they are primarily based on observable pricing for similar assets and or other market observable inputs. Typical inputs used by these pricing services include but are not limited to, reported trades, benchmark yields, issuer spreads, bids, offers, and or estimated cash flow, prepayment speeds and default rates. If the pricing information received from third-party pricing services is deemed not reflective of market activity or other inputs observable in the market, the Company may challenge the price through a formal process with the pricing service or classify the securities as Level 3. If the pricing service updates the price to be more consistent with the presented market observations, the security remains within Level 2. pricing is not available, or where the Company ultimately concludes that pricing information received from the independent pricing services is not reflective of market activity. If the Company concludes the values from both pricing services and brokers are not reflective of market activity, it may override the information with an internally-developed valuation. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, overrides on a net basis were not material. Pricing service overrides, internally-developed valuations and indicative broker quotes are generally included in Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. thresholds defined at the financial instrument level. Various pricing integrity reports are reviewed on a daily and monthly basis to determine if pricing is reflective of market activity or if it would warrant any adjustments. Other procedures performed include, but are not limited to, reviews of third-party pricing services methodologies, reviews of pricing trends and back testing. using discounted cash flow models. These models primarily use observable inputs that include Treasury or similar base rates plus estimated credit spreads to value each security. The credit spreads are obtained through a survey of private market intermediaries who are active in both primary and secondary transactions, and consider, among other factors, the credit quality and the reduced liquidity associated with private placements. Internal adjustments are made to reflect variation in observed sector spreads. Since most private placements are valued using standard market observable inputs and inputs derived from, or corroborated by, market observable data including, but not limited to observed prices and spreads for similar publicly-traded issues, they have been reflected within Level 2. For certain private fixed maturities, the discounted cash flow model may incorporate significant unobservable inputs, which reflect the Company s own assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset. To the extent management determines that such unobservable inputs are significant to the price of a security, a Level 3 classification is made. liabilities consist primarily of fixed maturity securities, equity securities and derivatives whose fair values are determined consistent with similar instruments described above under Fixed Maturity Securities and below under Equity Securities and Derivative Instruments. (8) As of December 31, 2020, the net embedded derivative liability position of 18.9 billion includes 0.5 billion of embedded derivatives in an asset position and 19.4 billion of embedded derivatives in a liability position. As of December 31, 2019, the net embedded derivative liability position of 12.8 billion includes 0.7 billion of embedded derivatives in an asset position and 13.5 billion of embedded derivatives in a liability position. The methods and assumptions the Company uses to estimate the fair value of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a Fixed Maturity Securities The fair values of the Company s public fixed maturity securities are generally based on prices Internally-developed valuations or indicative broker quotes are also used to determine fair value in circumstances where vendor The Company conducts several specific price monitoring activities. Daily analyses identify price changes over predetermined The fair values of private fixed maturities, which are originated by internal private asset managers, are primarily determined Assets Supporting Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 284 425 Table of Contents companies, perpetual preferred stock, privately-traded securities, as well as mutual fund shares. The fair values of most publicly- traded equity securities are based on quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets and are classified within Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Estimated fair values for most privately traded equity securities are determined using discounted cash flow, earnings multiple and other valuation models that require a substantial level of judgment around inputs and therefore are classified within Level 3. The fair values of mutual fund shares that transact regularly (but do not trade in active markets because they are not publicly available) are based on transaction prices of identical fund shares and are classified within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. The fair values of perpetual preferred stock are based on inputs obtained from independent pricing services that are primarily based on indicative broker quotes. As a result, the fair values of perpetual preferred stock are classified as Level 3. determined utilizing pricing indicators from the whole loan market, where investors are committed to purchase these loans at a predetermined price, which is considered the principal exit market for these loans. The Company evaluates the valuation inputs used for these assets, including the existence of predetermined exit prices, the terms of the loans, prevailing interest rates and credit risk, and deems the primary pricing inputs are Level 2 inputs in the fair value hierarchy. partnerships which are consolidated because the Company is either deemed to exercise control or considered the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity. These entities are primarily investment companies and follow specialized industry accounting whereby their assets are carried at fair value. The investments held by these entities include various feeder fund investments in underlying master funds (whose underlying holdings generally include public fixed maturities, equity securities and mutual funds), as well as wholly-owned real estate held within other investment funds. For the unconsolidated fund investments, the fair value is primarily determined by the fund managers and is measured at NAV as a practical expedient. relate to the reinsurance of the Company s living benefit guarantees on certain variable annuity contracts. The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value are consistent with those described below under Future Policy Benefits. contractholder liabilities, or Other invested assets, at fair value, or as liabilities, within Other liabilities, except for embedded derivatives which are recorded with the associated host contract. The fair values of derivative contracts can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, credit spreads, market volatility, expected returns, NPR, liquidity and other factors. For derivative positions included within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, liquidity valuation adjustments are made to reflect the cost of exiting significant risk positions, and consider the bid-ask spread, maturity, complexity and other specific attributes of the underlying derivative position. Eurodollar options and commodity options. Exchange-traded futures and options are valued using quoted prices in active markets and are classified within Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. the fair value hierarchy. OTC derivatives classified within Level 2 are valued using models that utilize actively quoted or observable market input values from external market data providers, third-party pricing vendors and or recent trading activity. The Company s policy is to use mid-market pricing in determining its best estimate of fair value. The fair values of most OTC derivatives, including interest rate and cross-currency swaps, currency forward contracts, commodity swaps, commodity forward contracts, single name credit default swaps, loan commitments held for sale and TBA forward contracts on highly rated mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. government sponsored entities are determined using discounted cash flow models. The fair values of European style option contracts are determined using Black-Scholes option pricing models. These models key inputs include the contractual terms of the respective contract, along with significant observable inputs, including interest rates, currency rates, credit spreads, equity prices, index dividend yields, NPR, volatility and other factors. quoted or observable market inputs, including the secured overnight financing rate ( SOFR ), obtained from external market data providers, third-party pricing vendors and or recent trading activity. These derivatives are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. Equity Securities Equity securities consist principally of investments in common and preferred stock of publicly-traded Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans The fair value of loans held and accounted for using the fair value option is Other Invested Assets Other invested assets primarily include investments in LPs LLCs, derivatives and certain limited Other Assets Other assets reflected in Level 3 primarily include reinsurance recoverables which are carried at fair value and Derivative Instruments Derivatives are recorded at fair value either as assets, within Assets supporting experience-rated The Company s exchange-traded futures and options include Treasury futures, Eurodollar futures, commodity futures, The majority of the Company s derivative positions are traded in the OTC derivative market and are classified within Level 2 in The Company s cleared interest rate swaps and credit derivatives linked to an index are valued using models that utilize actively Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 285 425 Table of Contents the market s perception of its own and the counterparty s NPR, the Company incorporates additional spreads over LIBOR into the discount rate used in determining the fair value of OTC derivative assets and liabilities that are not otherwise collateralized. based upon models, such as Monte Carlo simulation models and other techniques that utilize significant unobservable inputs. Level 3 methodologies are validated through periodic comparison of the Company s fair values to external broker-dealer values. instruments, commercial paper and other highly liquid debt instruments. Certain money market instruments are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible for identical assets and are primarily classified as Level 1. The remaining instruments in this category are generally fair valued based on market observable inputs and these investments have primarily been classified within Level 2. securities, real estate and commercial mortgage loans for which values are determined consistent with similar instruments described above under Fixed Maturity Securities, Equity Securities and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans. benefit features of certain variable annuity contracts offered by the Company s Individual Annuities segment, including guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ( GMAB ), guaranteed withdrawal benefits ( GMWB ) and guaranteed minimum income and withdrawal benefits ( GMIWB ), accounted for as embedded derivatives. The fair values of these liabilities are calculated as the present value of future expected benefit payments to customers less the present value of future expected rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. This methodology could result in either a liability or asset balance, given changing capital market conditions and various actuarial assumptions. Since there is no observable active market for the transfer of these obligations, the valuations are calculated using internally-developed models with option pricing techniques. The models are based on a risk neutral valuation framework and incorporate premiums for risks inherent in valuation techniques, inputs, and the general uncertainty around the timing and amount of future cash flows. The determination of these risk premiums requires the use of management s judgment. interest rate levels and volatility assumptions, the Company s market-perceived NPR, as well as actuarially determined assumptions, including contractholder behavior, such as lapse rates, benefit utilization rates, withdrawal rates, and mortality rates. Since many of these assumptions are unobservable and are considered to be significant inputs to the liability valuation, the liability included in future policy benefits has been reflected within Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. of the end of the quarter, including interest rates, equity markets and volatility. In the risk neutral valuation, the initial swap curve drives the total return used to grow the policyholders account values. The Company s discount rate assumption is based on the LIBOR swap curve adjusted for an additional spread relative to LIBOR to reflect NPR. emerging experience, future expectations and other data, including any observable market data. These assumptions are generally updated annually unless a material change that the Company feels is indicative of a long-term trend is observed in an interim period. instruments associated with certain universal life and annuity products that provide the policyholders with the index-linked interest credited over contract specified term periods. The fair values of these liabilities are determined using discounted cash flow models which include capital market assumptions such as interest rates and equity index volatility assumptions, the Company s market- perceived NPR and actuarially determined assumptions for mortality, lapses and projected hedge costs. paid to policyholders in excess of contractually guaranteed minimums using option pricing techniques for index term periods that contain deposits as of the valuation date, and the expected option cost for future index term periods, where the terms of index crediting rates have not yet been declared by the Company. Premiums for risks inherent in valuation techniques, The majority of the Company s derivative agreements are with highly rated major international financial institutions. To reflect Derivatives classified as Level 3 include look-back equity options and other structured products. These derivatives are valued Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments Cash equivalents and short-term investments include money market Separate Account Assets Separate account assets include mutual funds, fixed maturity securities, treasuries, equity Future Policy Benefits The liability for future policy benefits is related to guarantees primarily associated with the living The significant inputs to the valuation models for these embedded derivatives include capital market assumptions, such as Capital market inputs and actual policyholders account values are updated each quarter based on capital market conditions as Actuarial assumptions, including contractholder behavior and mortality, are reviewed at least annually, and updated based upon Policyholders Account Balances The liability for policyholders account balances is related to certain embedded derivative As there is no observable active market for these liabilities, the fair value is determined as the present value of account balances Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 286 425 Table of Contents inputs, and the general uncertainty around the timing and amount of future cash flows are also incorporated in the fair value of these liabilities. Since the valuation of these liabilities require the use of management s judgement to determine these risk premiums and the use of unobservable inputs, these liabilities are reflected within Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. updated each quarter. Actuarial assumptions are reviewed at least annually and updated based upon emerging experience, future expectations and other data, including any observable market data. Aside from these annual updates, assumptions are generally updated only if a material change is observed in an interim period that the Company believes is indicative of a long-term trend. with the acquisition of Assurance IQ. The fair values of derivative instruments are primarily determined consistent with those described above under Derivative Instruments. For the contingent consideration liability, see Note 1 for additional information. notes are valued based on reference collateral, they are classified as Level 3. See Note 4 and Fair Value Option below for additional information. quantitative information on significant internally-priced Level 3 assets and liabilities: Capital market inputs, including interest rates and equity markets volatility, and actual policyholders account values are Other Liabilities Other liabilities include certain derivative instruments and the contingent consideration liability associated Notes issued by Consolidated VIEs These notes are based on the fair values of corresponding bank loan collateral. Since the Quantitative Information Regarding Internally-Priced Level 3 Assets and Liabilities The tables below present Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 287 425 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2020 Fair Value (in millions) Assets: Corporate securities(2)(3) 3,697 Discounted cash flow(5) Discount rate 0.40% 25% 4.28% Decrease Liquidation Liquidation value 12.13% 15.00% 13.02% Increase Equity securities 195 Discounted cash flow(5) Discount rate 0.5% 20% Decrease Separate account assets-commercial mortgage loans(6) 775 Discounted cash flow Spread 1.60% 2.98% 1.80% Decrease Liabilities: Future policy benefits(7) 18,879 Discounted cash flow Lapse rate(9) 1% 20% Decrease Equity volatility curve 18% 26% Increase Policyholders account balances(8) 1,914 Market comparables EBITDA multiples(4) 7.0X 15.0X 9.0X Increase Market comparables EBITDA multiples(4) 1X 8.8X 3.3X Increase Net Asset Value Share price 1 1,414 495 Increase Discounted cash flow Lapse rate(9) 1% 42% Decrease Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Techniques Unobservable Inputs Minimum Maximum PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Spread over LIBOR(10) 0.06% 1.17% Decrease Utilization rate(11) 39% 96% Increase Withdrawal rate See table footnote (12) below. Mortality rate(13) 0% 15% Decrease Spread over LIBOR(10) 0.06% 1.17% Decrease Mortality rate(13) 0% 24% Decrease Equity volatility curve 6% 42% Increase Increase in 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 288 425 Table of Contents (1) Conversely, the impact of a decrease in input would have the opposite impact on fair value as that presented in the table. As of December 31, 2019 Fair Value (in millions) Assets: Corporate securities(2)(3) 1,424 Discounted cash flow(5) Discount rate 0.49% 20% 7.41% Decrease Liquidation Liquidation value 14.25% 83.61% 59.47% Increase Equity securities 210 Discounted cash flow(5) Discount rate 10% 30% Decrease Separate account assets-commercial mortgage loans(6) 796 Discounted cash flow Spread 1.11% 1.85% 1.26% Decrease Liabilities: Future policy benefits(7) 12,831 Discounted cash flow Lapse rate(9) 1% 18% Decrease Equity volatility curve 13% 23% Increase Policyholders account balances(8) 1,316 (2) Includes assets classified as fixed maturities available-for-sale, assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities and fixed maturities, trading. (3) Excludes notes which have been offset with the associated payables under a netting agreement. (4) Represents multiples of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ), and are amounts used when the Company has determined that market participants would use such multiples when valuing the investments. (5) Includes certain investments where enterprise value is less than the amount needed to support senior and subordinated claims. These investments typically use a range of discount rates (10% to 20%), therefore presenting a range, rather than a weighted average, is a more meaningful representation of the unobservable inputs used in the valuation. (6) Changes in the fair value of separate account assets are borne by customers and thus are offset by changes in separate account liabilities on the Company s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. As a result, changes in value associated with these investments are not reflected in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations. (7) Future policy benefits primarily represent general account liabilities for the living benefit features of the Company s variable annuity contracts which are accounted for as embedded derivatives. Since the valuation methodology for these liabilities uses a range of inputs that vary at the contract level over the cash flow projection period, presenting a range, rather than a weighted average, is a more meaningful representation of the unobservable inputs used in the valuation. Market comparables EBITDA multiples(4) 5.7X 9.2X 7.3X Increase Market comparables EBITDA multiples(4) 1X 10.1X 5.4X Increase Net Asset Value Share price 5 1,353 451 Increase Discounted cash flow Lapse rate(9) 1% 42% Decrease Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Techniques Unobservable Inputs Minimum Maximum PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Spread over LIBOR(10) 0.10% 1.23% Decrease Utilization rate(11) 43% 97% Increase Withdrawal rate See table footnote (12) below. Mortality rate(13) 0% 15% Decrease Spread over LIBOR(10) 0.10% 1.23% Decrease Mortality rate(13) 0% 24% Decrease Equity volatility curve 6% 25% Increase Increase in 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 289 425 Table of Contents each unobservable input in isolation, as reflected in the table above, interrelationships between these inputs may also exist, such that a change in one unobservable input may give rise to a change in another or multiple inputs. Examples of such interrelationships for significant internally-priced Level 3 assets and liabilities are as follows: requirements that market participants would use to value an asset. The discount rate may be influenced by many factors, including market cycles, expectations of default, collateral, term, and asset complexity. Each of these factors can influence discount rates, either in isolation, or in response to other factors. lapse rates. However, behavior is generally highly dependent on the facts and circumstances surrounding the individual contractholder, such as their liquidity needs or tax situation, which could drive lapse behavior independent of other contractholder behavior assumptions. To the extent more efficient contractholder behavior results in greater in-the-moneyness at the contract level, lapse rates may decline for those contracts. Similarly, to the extent that increases in equity volatility are correlated with overall declines in the capital markets, lapse rates may decline as contracts become more in-the-money. liabilities as of the dates indicated, as well as the portion of gains or losses included in income attributable to unrealized gains or losses related to those assets and liabilities still held at the end of their respective periods. When a determination is made to classify assets and liabilities within Level 3, the determination is based on significance of the unobservable inputs in the overall fair value measurement. All transfers are based on changes in the observability of the valuation inputs, including the availability of pricing service information that the Company can validate. Transfers into Level 3 are generally the result of unobservable inputs utilized within valuation methodologies and the use of indicative broker quotes for assets that were previously valued using observable inputs. Transfers out of Level 3 are generally due to the use of observable inputs in valuation methodologies as well as the availability of pricing service information for certain assets that the Company can validate. (8) Policyholders account balances primarily represent general account liabilities for the index-linked interest credited on certain of the Company s life and annuity products that are accounted for as embedded derivatives. Since the valuation methodology for these liabilities uses a range of inputs that vary at the contract level over the cash flow projection period, presenting a range, rather than a weighted average, is a more meaningful representation of the unobservable inputs used in the valuation. (9) Lapse rates for contracts with living benefit guarantees are adjusted at the contract level based on the in-the-moneyness of the living benefit and reflect other factors, such as the applicability of any surrender charges. Lapse rates are reduced when contracts are more in-the-money. Lapse rates for contracts with index-linked crediting guarantees may be adjusted at the contract level based on the applicability of any surrender charges, product type, and market related factors such as interest rates. Lapse rates are also generally assumed to be lower for the period where surrender charges apply. For any given contract, lapse rates vary throughout the period over which cash flows are projected for the purposes of valuing these embedded derivatives. (10) The spread over the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) swap curve represents the premium added to the proxy for the risk-free rate (11) The utilization rate assumption estimates the percentage of contracts that will utilize the benefit during the contract duration, and begin (12) The withdrawal rate assumption estimates the magnitude of annual contractholder withdrawals relative to the maximum allowable amount (13) The range reflects the mortality rates for the vast majority of business with living benefits and other contracts, with policyholders ranging (LIBOR) to reflect the Company s estimates of rates that a market participant would use to value the living benefits in both the accumulation and payout phases and index-linked interest crediting guarantees. This spread includes an estimate of NPR, which is the risk that the obligation will not be fulfilled by the Company. NPR is primarily estimated by utilizing the credit spreads associated with issuing funding agreements, adjusted for any illiquidity risk premium. In order to reflect the financial strength ratings of the Company, credit spreads associated with funding agreements, as opposed to credit spread associated with debt, are utilized in developing this estimate because funding agreements, living benefit guarantees, and index-linked interest crediting guarantees are insurance liabilities and are therefore senior to debt. lifetime withdrawals at various time intervals from contract inception. The remaining contractholders are assumed to either begin lifetime withdrawals immediately or never utilize the benefit. Utilization assumptions may vary by product type, tax status, and age. The impact of changes in these assumptions is highly dependent on the product type, the age of the contractholder at the time of the sale, and the timing of the first lifetime income withdrawal. Range reflects the utilization rate for the vast majority of business with living benefits. under the contract. These assumptions vary based on the age of the contractholder, the tax status of the contract and the duration since the contractholder began lifetime withdrawals. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the minimum withdrawal rate assumption is 76% and 78% respectively. As of both December 31, 2020 and 2019, the maximum withdrawal rate assumption may be greater than 100%.The fair value of the liability will generally increase the closer the withdrawal rate is to 100% and decrease as the withdrawal rate moves further away from 100%. from 45 to 90 years old. While the majority of living benefits have a minimum age requirement, certain other contracts do not have an age restriction. This results in contractholders with mortality rates approaching 0% for certain benefits. Mortality rates may vary by product, age, and duration. A mortality improvement assumption is also incorporated into the overall mortality table. Interrelationships Between Unobservable Inputs In addition to the sensitivities of fair value measurements to changes in Corporate Securities The rate used to discount future cash flows reflects current risk-free rates plus credit and liquidity spread Future Policy Benefits The Company expects efficient benefit utilization and withdrawal rates to generally be correlated with Changes in Level 3 Assets and Liabilities The following tables describe changes in fair values of Level 3 assets and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 290 425 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2020 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale: Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities: Other assets: Liabilities: U.S. government 105 0 45 0 0 0 0 0 0 150 0 U.S. states 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 Foreign government 22 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 (12) 11 0 Corporate securities(3) 3,236 274 1,144 (127) 0 (1,021) (16) 2,178 (333) 5,335 203 Structured securities(4) 948 (8) 685 (18) 0 (547) 156 178 (851) 543 (11) Foreign government 24 0 0 0 0 (5) 0 0 0 19 0 Corporate securities(3) 637 (17) 6 (9) 0 (182) (19) 99 (33) 482 (25) Structured securities(4) 69 (1) 191 0 0 (33) 0 1 (113) 114 3 Equity securities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 All other activity 0 0 134 0 0 (5) (2) 0 (107) 20 0 Fixed maturities, trading 287 (24) 33 (33) 0 0 9 19 (48) 243 (24) Equity securities 633 14 59 (50) 0 (6) 11 0 (1) 660 11 Other invested assets 567 7 209 0 4 (5) (415) 8 (9) 366 7 Short-term investments 155 1 327 0 0 (115) (48) 0 (143) 177 (1) Cash equivalents 131 0 0 0 0 0 (130) 0 0 1 0 Other assets 113 87 69 0 0 (1) 0 0 0 268 88 Separate account assets(5) 1,717 143 242 (71) 0 (84) 0 43 (169) 1,821 157 Future policy benefits (12,831) (4,837) 0 0 (1,304) 0 93 0 0 (18,879) (5,263) Policyholders account balances(6) (1,316) (228) 0 0 (370) 0 0 0 0 (1,914) (155) Other liabilities (105) 105 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 105 Notes issued by consolidated VIEs (800) 25 0 0 0 0 775 0 0 0 25 beginning of period Fair Value, unrealized gains (losses) Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements Other(1) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. (in millions) out of Level 3 Fair Value, end of period Unrealized (losses) for assets still 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 291 425 Year Ended December 31, 2020 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale (111) 0 0 368 9 (139) 0 0 331 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities 0 (22) 0 0 4 0 (22) 0 0 Other assets: Liabilities: Fixed maturities, trading 0 (25) 0 0 1 0 (24) 0 0 Equity securities 0 14 0 0 0 0 11 0 0 Other invested assets 0 7 0 0 0 0 7 0 0 Short-term investments 1 0 0 0 0 (1) 0 0 0 Cash equivalents 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other assets 87 0 0 0 0 88 0 0 0 Separate account assets(5) 0 0 143 0 0 0 0 157 0 Future policy benefits (4,837) 0 0 0 0 (5,263) 0 0 0 Policyholders account balances (228) 0 0 0 0 (155) 0 0 0 Other liabilities 0 105 0 0 0 0 105 0 0 Notes issued by consolidated VIEs 0 25 0 0 0 0 25 0 0 Realized investment Total realized and unrealized gains (losses) Unrealized gains (losses) for assets still held(2) Other income (loss) policyholders credited to account balances comprehensive income (losses) Included in investment (in millions) Realized investment Other income policyholders credited to account balances comprehensive income (losses) Included in 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 292 425 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2019 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale: Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities: Other assets: Liabilities: U.S. government 81 0 24 0 0 0 0 0 0 105 0 U.S. states 5 0 0 0 0 (1) 0 0 0 4 0 Foreign government 125 0 0 0 0 0 (1) 10 (112) 22 (2) Corporate securities(3) 2,685 (3) 1,462 (47) 0 (1,137) 10 353 (87) 3,236 (96) Structured securities(4) 1,339 40 952 (67) 0 (507) (4) 755 (1,560) 948 0 Foreign government 225 0 0 0 0 (5) (196) 0 0 24 0 Corporate securities(3) 444 4 146 0 0 (189) 196 46 (10) 637 (6) Structured securities(4) 149 0 29 0 0 (35) 0 0 (74) 69 0 Equity securities 1 1 0 (2) 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 All other activity 0 0 8 0 0 (8) 0 0 0 0 0 Fixed maturities, trading 206 (26) 105 (31) 0 0 (7) 41 (1) 287 (27) Equity securities 671 42 79 (52) 0 (85) 1 1 (24) 633 34 Other invested assets 263 11 341 0 0 (42) (6) 0 0 567 (1) Short-term investments 89 0 597 0 0 (526) (5) 0 0 155 0 Cash equivalents 77 0 131 0 0 (77) 0 0 0 131 0 Other assets 25 44 44 0 0 0 0 0 0 113 44 Separate account assets(5) 1,534 184 346 (111) 0 (144) 0 55 (147) 1,717 170 Future policy benefits (8,926) (2,685) 0 0 (1,221) 0 1 0 0 (12,831) (2,999) Policyholders account balances(6) (56) (933) 0 0 (324) 0 (3) 0 0 (1,316) (917) Other liabilities 0 (5) 0 0 (100) 0 0 0 0 (105) (5) Notes issued by consolidated VIEs (595) 15 0 0 (858) 638 0 0 0 (800) 15 beginning of period Fair Value, unrealized gains (losses) Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements Other(1) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. (in millions) out of Level 3 Fair Value, end of period Unrealized (losses) for assets still 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 293 425 Table of Contents OCI for the year ended December 31, 2018, as well as the portion of gains or losses included in income attributable to unrealized gains or losses related to those assets and liabilities still held as of December 31, 2018:  Year Ended December 31, 2019 Fixed maturities, available-for- sale (67) 0 0 86 18 (98) 0 0 Assets supporting experience- rated contractholder liabilities 0 (4) 0 0 9 0 (5) 0 Other assets: Liabilities: Year Ended December 31, 2018 Fixed maturities, available-for- sale (29) 0 0 (141) 17 (60) 0 0 Assets supporting experience- rated contractholder liabilities 0 (39) 0 0 8 0 (38) 0 Other assets: Liabilities: Fixed maturities, trading 0 (27) 0 0 1 0 (27) 0 Equity securities 0 42 0 0 0 0 34 0 Other invested assets (1) 12 0 0 0 (1) 0 0 Short-term investments 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Cash equivalents 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other assets 44 0 0 0 0 44 0 0 Separate account assets(5) 0 0 180 0 4 0 0 170 Future policy benefits (2,685) 0 0 0 0 (2,999) 0 0 Policyholders account balances (933) 0 0 0 0 (917) 0 0 Other liabilities 0 (5) 0 0 0 0 (5) 0 Notes issued by consolidated VIEs 15 0 0 0 0 15 0 0 Fixed maturities, trading 0 5 0 0 1 0 8 0 Equity securities 0 (6) 0 0 0 0 (19) 0 Other invested assets 4 0 0 0 0 2 1 0 Short-term investments 0 0 0 0 0 (1) 0 0 Cash equivalents (1) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other assets (34) 0 0 0 0 (34) 0 0 Separate account assets(5) 0 0 (66) 0 2 0 0 (52) Future policy benefits 947 0 0 0 0 611 0 0 Policyholders account balances 30 0 0 0 0 30 0 0 Other liabilities 2 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 Notes issued by consolidated VIEs 14 0 0 0 0 14 0 0 The following tables summarize the portion of changes in fair values of Level 3 assets and liabilities included in earnings and (losses), net (losses), net Realized investment Realized investment Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Total realized and unrealized gains (losses) Total realized and unrealized gains (losses) Other income (loss) Other income (loss) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. policyholders policyholders credited to credited to account balances account balances comprehensive income (losses) comprehensive income (losses) Included in Included in (in millions) (in millions) investment investment (losses), net (losses), net Unrealized gains (losses) for assets still Unrealized gains (losses) for assets still Realized investment Realized investment Other income Other income policyholders policyholders credited to credited to account balances account balances 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 294 425 (1) Other, for the periods ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, primarily represent deconsolidation of VIE, reclassifications of certain assets between reporting categories and foreign currency translation. (2) Unrealized gains or losses related to assets still held at the end of the period do not include amortization or accretion of premiums and discounts. (3) Includes U.S. corporate public, U.S. corporate private, foreign corporate public and foreign corporate private securities. (4) Includes asset-backed, commercial mortgage-backed and residential mortgage-backed securities. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 295 425 Table of Contents Derivative Fair Value Information as of the date indicated, by primary underlying risks. These tables exclude embedded derivatives and associated reinsurance recoverables. The derivative assets and liabilities shown below are included in Other invested assets or Other liabilities in the tables contained within the sections Assets and Liabilities by Hierarchy Level and Changes in Level 3 Assets and Liabilities, above. As of December 31, 2020 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Netting(1) Total (in millions) Derivative assets: Derivative liabilities: (5) Separate account assets represent segregated funds that are invested for certain customers. Investment risks associated with market value changes are borne by the customers, except to the extent of minimum guarantees made by the Company with respect to certain accounts. Separate account liabilities are not included in the above table as they are reported at contract value and not fair value in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. (6) Issuances and settlements for Policyholders account balances are presented net in the rollforward. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. (7) Effective January 1, 2020, the changes in unrealized gains and losses for the period included in other comprehensive income for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements held at the end of the reporting period were added prospectively due to adoption of ASU 2018-13. Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement. Interest Rate 99 19,091 0 19,190 Currency 0 832 0 832 Credit 0 63 0 63 Currency Interest Rate 0 1,415 0 1,415 Equity 128 1,645 0 1,773 Commodity 0 0 0 0 Netting(1) (21,367) (21,367) Interest Rate 5 13,503 0 13,508 Currency 0 763 0 763 Credit 0 28 0 28 Currency Interest Rate 0 1,638 0 1,638 Equity 25 2,305 0 2,330 Commodity 0 0 0 0 Netting(1) (17,475) (17,475) The following tables present the balances of certain derivative assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, Total derivative assets 227 23,046 0 (21,367) 1,906 Total derivative liabilities 30 18,237 0 (17,475) 792 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 296 425 Table of Contents (1) Netting amounts represent cash collateral and the impact of offsetting asset and liability positions held with the same counterparty, subject to master netting agreement. Level 3 derivative assets and liabilities as of the dates indicated, as well as the portion of gains or losses included in income attributable to unrealized gains or losses related to those assets and liabilities still held at the end of their respective periods: As of December 31, 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Netting(1) Total (in millions) Derivative assets: Derivative liabilities: Net Derivative - Equity 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Net Derivative - Interest Rate 1 (1) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Net Derivative - Equity 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Net Derivative - Interest Rate 2 (1) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 (2) Interest Rate 4 11,238 1 11,243 Currency 0 230 0 230 Credit 0 21 0 21 Currency Interest Rate 0 2,207 0 2,207 Equity 2 683 0 685 Commodity 0 0 0 0 Netting(1) (13,519) (13,519) Interest Rate 38 5,176 0 5,214 Currency 0 271 0 271 Credit 0 0 0 0 Currency Interest Rate 0 647 0 647 Equity 3 1,401 0 1,404 Commodity 0 0 0 0 Netting(1) (6,705) (6,705) Changes in Level 3 derivative assets and liabilities The following tables provide a summary of the changes in fair value of Total derivative assets 6 14,379 1 (13,519) 867 Total derivative liabilities 41 7,495 0 (6,705) 831 beginning of period beginning of period Fair Value, Fair Value, unrealized (losses) (4) Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements Other(1) unrealized (losses) (4) Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements Other(1) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Year Ended December 31, 2019 Year Ended December 31, 2020 (in millions) (in millions) out of Level 3 out of Level 3 Fair Value, end of period Fair Value, end of period Unrealized (losses) for assets still Unrealized (losses) for assets still held (4) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 297 425 Table of Contents (1) Represents conversion of warrants to equity shares. nonrecurring basis. The fair value measurement is nonrecurring as these assets are measured at fair value only when there is a triggering event (e.g., an evidence of impairment). Assets included in the table are those that were impaired during the respective reporting periods and that are still held as of the reporting date. The estimated fair values for these amounts were determined using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). (1) Commercial mortgage loans are valued based on discounted cash flows utilizing market rates or the fair value of the underlying real estate collateral. Fair Value Option financial liabilities not otherwise reported at fair value. Such elections have been made by the Company to help mitigate volatility in earnings that result from different measurement attributes. Electing the fair value option also allows the Company to achieve consistent accounting for certain assets and liabilities. Changes in fair value are reflected in Realized investment gains (losses), net for commercial mortgage and other loans and Other income (loss) for other assets and notes issued by consolidated VIEs. Changes in fair value due to instrument-specific credit risk are estimated using changes in credit spreads and quality ratings for the period reported. Interest income on commercial mortgage and other loans is included in Net investment income. Interest income on these loans is recorded based on the effective interest rate as determined at the closing of the loan. Carrying value after measurement as of period end Realized investment gains (losses) net: (2) Transfers into or out of Level 3 are generally reported at the value as of the beginning of the quarter in which the transfers occur for any such positions still held at the end of the quarter. (3) Related to warrants received in restructuring a certain asset that resulted in reclassification of reporting category. (4) Total realized and unrealized gains (losses) as well as unrealized gains (losses) for assets still held at the end of the period are recorded in Realized investment gains (losses), net. (2) Mortgage servicing rights are valued using a discounted cash flow model. The model incorporates assumptions for servicing revenues, which are adjusted for expected prepayments, delinquency rates, escrow deposit income and estimated loan servicing expenses. The discount rates incorporated into the model are determined based on the estimated returns a market participant would require for this business plus a liquidity and risk premium. This estimate includes available relevant data from any active market sales of mortgage servicing rights. Net Derivative - Equity 10 1 0 0 0 0 (11) 0 0 0 0 Net Derivative - Interest Rate (3) 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 5 Commercial mortgage loans(1): 0 15 Mortgage servicing rights(2): 307 87 Investment real estate 31 0 Commercial mortgage loans(1) 0 2 (12) Mortgage servicing rights(2) (25) 11 10 Investment real estate (24) 0 0 Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements The following tables represent information for assets measured at fair value on a The fair value option allows the Company to elect fair value as an alternative measurement for selected financial assets and beginning of period Fair Value, unrealized (losses) (4) Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements Other(3) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Year Ended December 31, 2018 (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 Year Ended December 31, (in millions) Year Ended December 31, out of Level 3 (in millions) Fair Value, end of period Unrealized (losses) for assets still 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 298 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 299 425 Table of Contents (1) As of December 31, 2020, for loans for which the fair value option has been elected, there were no loans in non-accrual status and none of the loans were more than 90 days past due and still accruing. Fair Value of Financial Instruments are not reported at fair value. The financial instruments presented below are reported at carrying value on the Company s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. In some cases, as described below, the carrying amount equals or approximates fair value. Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Liabilities: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) Commercial mortgage and other loans(1): Other assets: Notes issued by consolidated VIEs: Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Commercial mortgage and other loans: Notes issued by consolidated VIEs: Notes issued by consolidated VIEs: Fair value as of period end 1,092 228 Aggregate contractual principal as of period end 1,073 224 Fair value as of period end 10 10 Fair value as of period end 0 800 Aggregate contractual principal as of period end 0 857 Interest income 17 20 18 Interest expense 32 45 36 The following tables present information regarding assets and liabilities where the fair value option has been elected: The table below presents the carrying amount and fair value by fair value hierarchy level of certain financial instruments that Changes in fair value (25) (15) (14) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 300 425 Table of Contents December 31, 2020 Fair Value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Total (in millions) Liabilities: Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity(2) 0 2,209 89 2,298 1,930 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities 39 0 0 39 39 Commercial mortgage and other loans 0 107 67,477 67,584 64,333 Policy loans 0 0 11,271 11,271 11,271 Other invested assets 0 153 0 153 153 Short-term investments 1,464 26 0 1,490 1,490 Cash and cash equivalents 7,951 268 0 8,219 8,219 Accrued investment income 0 3,193 0 3,193 3,193 Other assets 154 2,917 449 3,520 3,517 Policyholders account balances investment contracts 0 36,820 73,653 110,473 107,526 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 0 10,894 0 10,894 10,894 Cash collateral for loaned securities 0 3,499 0 3,499 3,499 Short-term debt 0 794 146 940 925 Long-term debt(3) 644 21,685 1,139 23,468 19,718 Notes issued by consolidated VIEs 0 0 305 305 305 Other liabilities 0 7,626 48 7,674 7,674 Separate account liabilities investment contracts 0 86,046 23,631 109,677 109,677 Total assets 9,608 8,873 79,286 97,767 94,145 Total liabilities 644 167,364 98,922 266,930 260,218 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Amount(1) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 301 425 Table of Contents (1) Carrying values presented herein differ from those in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position because certain items within the respective financial statement captions are not considered financial instruments or out of scope under authoritative guidance relating to disclosures of the fair value of financial instruments. (2) Excludes notes with fair value of 5,821 million (carrying amount of 4,998 million) and 5,401 million (carrying amount of 4,998 million) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, which have been offset with the associated payables under a netting agreement. (3) Includes notes with fair value of 11,921 million (carrying amount of 10,964 million) and 10,158 million (carrying amount of 9,749 million) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, which have been offset with the associated receivables under a netting agreement. methodologies, as described in more detail below. Fixed Maturities, Held-to-Maturity reviewed for reasonableness however, for certain public fixed maturity securities and investments in private placement fixed maturity securities, this information is either not available or not reliable. For these public fixed maturity securities, the fair value is based on indicative broker quotes, if available, or determined using a discounted cash flow model or other internally-developed models. For private fixed maturities, fair value is determined using a discounted cash flow model. In determining the fair value of certain fixed maturity securities, the discounted cash flow model may also use unobservable inputs, which reflect the Company s own assumptions about the inputs market participants would use in pricing the security. December 31, 2019 Fair Value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Total (in millions) Liabilities: Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity(2) 0 2,217 85 2,302 1,933 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities 16 0 0 16 16 Commercial mortgage and other loans 0 107 65,558 65,665 63,331 Policy loans 0 0 12,096 12,096 12,096 Other invested assets 0 36 0 36 36 Short-term investments 1,492 39 0 1,531 1,531 Cash and cash equivalents 6,278 1,043 0 7,321 7,321 Accrued investment income 0 3,330 0 3,330 3,330 Other assets 147 2,526 643 3,316 3,315 Policyholders account balances investment contracts 0 32,940 69,216 102,156 101,241 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 0 9,681 0 9,681 9,681 Cash collateral for loaned securities 0 4,213 0 4,213 4,213 Short-term debt 0 1,748 205 1,953 1,933 Long-term debt(3) 1,950 18,188 1,186 21,324 18,646 Notes issued by consolidated VIEs 0 0 474 474 474 Other liabilities 0 6,403 579 6,982 6,982 Separate account liabilities investment contracts 0 77,134 24,407 101,541 101,541 The fair values presented above have been determined by using available market information and by applying market valuation The fair values of public fixed maturity securities are generally based on prices from third-party pricing services, which are Total assets 7,933 9,298 78,382 95,613 92,909 Total liabilities 1,950 150,307 96,067 248,324 244,711 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Amount(1) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 302 425 Table of Contents Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans at the appropriate U.S. Treasury rate or foreign government bond rate (for non-U.S. dollar-denominated loans) plus an appropriate credit spread for loans of similar quality, average life and currency. The quality ratings for these loans, a primary determinant of the credit spreads and a significant component of the pricing process, are based on an internally-developed methodology. Certain commercial mortgage loans are valued incorporating other factors, including the terms of the loans, the principal exit strategies for the loans, prevailing interest rates and credit risk. Policy Loans loans are fully collateralized by the cash surrender value of underlying insurance policies. As a result, the carrying value of the policy loans approximates the fair value. Short-Term Investments, Cash and Cash Equivalents, Accrued Investment Income and Other Assets assets include: certain short-term investments, which are not securities, recorded at amortized cost and include quality loans cash and cash equivalent instruments accrued investment income and other assets that meet the definition of financial instruments, including receivables, such as reinsurance recoverables, unsettled trades, accounts receivable and restricted cash. Policyholders Account Balances Investment Contracts mortality or morbidity risk) are reflected in the table above. For fixed deferred annuities, single premium endowments, payout annuities and other similar contracts without life contingencies, fair values are generally derived using discounted projected cash flows based on interest rates that are representative of the Company s financial strength ratings, and hence reflect the Company s NPR. For GICs, funding agreements, structured settlements without life contingencies and other similar products, fair values are generally derived using discounted projected cash flows based on interest rates being offered for similar contracts with maturities consistent with those of the contracts being valued. For those balances that can be withdrawn by the customer at any time without prior notice or penalty, the fair value is the amount estimated to be payable to the customer as of the reporting date, which is generally the carrying value. For defined contribution and defined benefit contracts and certain other products, the fair value is the market value of the assets supporting the liabilities. Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase to resell. Repurchase and resale agreements are also generally short-term in nature and, therefore, the carrying amounts of these instruments approximate fair value. Cash Collateral for Loaned Securities securities, similar to the securities sold under agreement to repurchase above. Due to the short-term nature of these transactions, the carrying value approximates fair value. Debt prices obtained from independent pricing services, which are validated by the Company, or discounted cash flow models. With the exception of the notes issued by consolidated VIEs for which recourse is limited to the assets of the respective VIE and does not extend to the general credit of the Company, the fair values of these instruments consider the Company s NPR. Discounted cash flow models predominately use market observable inputs such as the borrowing rates currently available to the Company for debt and financial instruments with similar terms and remaining maturities. For commercial paper issuances and other debt with a maturity of less than 90 days, the carrying value approximates fair value. The fair value of most commercial mortgage loans is based upon the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted The Company s valuation technique for policy loans is to discount cash flows at the current policy loan coupon rate. Policy The Company believes that due to the short-term nature of certain assets, the carrying value approximates fair value. These Only the portion of policyholders account balances related to products that are investment contracts (those without significant The Company receives collateral for selling securities under agreements to repurchase, or pledges collateral under agreements Cash collateral for loaned securities represents the collateral received or paid in connection with loaning or borrowing The fair value of short-term and long-term debt, as well as notes issued by consolidated VIEs, is generally determined by either Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 303 425 Table of Contents Other Liabilities Due to the short-term until settlement of most of these liabilities, the Company believes that carrying value approximates fair value. Separate Account Liabilities Investment Contracts Separate account liabilities are recorded at the amount credited to the contractholder, which reflects the change in fair value of the corresponding separate account assets including contractholder deposits less withdrawals and fees therefore, carrying value approximates fair value. 7. DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS (1) Other for 2020 primarily represents the impact related to the sale of The Prudential Life Insurance Company of Korea, Ltd. of (1,193) million. Other for 2019 primarily represents the impact related to the sale of the Company s Pramerica of Italy subsidiary of (46) million and DAC ceded to a third-party reinsurer of (14) million. Other for 2018 represents the impact related to the sale of the Company s Pramerica of Poland subsidiary of (38) million and the impact of the elimination of Gibraltar Life s one-month reporting lag of 20 million. 8. VALUE OF BUSINESS ACQUIRED (in millions) Balance, beginning of period 19,912 20,058 18,992 Balance, end of period 19,027 19,912 20,058 (in millions) Balance, beginning of period 1,110 1,850 1,591 Balance, end of period 1,103 1,110 1,850 Capitalization of commissions, sales and issue expenses 2,763 2,966 2,870 Amortization Impact of assumption and experience unlocking and true-ups (36) (164) (217) Amortization All other (2,185) (2,168) (2,056) Change due to unrealized investment gains and losses (379) (713) 519 Foreign currency translation 142 (8) (32) Other(1) (1,190) (59) (18) Amortization Impact of assumption and experience unlocking and true-ups (317) (139) 0 Amortization All other (212) (235) (276) Change due to unrealized investment gains and losses 418 (478) 455 Interest 56 64 69 Foreign currency translation 48 10 23 Other 0 38 (12) Other liabilities are primarily payables, such as reinsurance payables, unsettled trades, drafts and accrued expense payables. Only the portion of separate account liabilities related to products that are investment contracts are reflected in the table above. The balances of and changes in DAC as of and for the years ended December 31, are as follows: The balances of and changes in VOBA as of and for the years ended December 31, are as follows: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 304 425 Table of Contents 9. INVESTMENTS IN OPERATING JOINT VENTURES purpose of generating investment income. These investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and are included in Other assets in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The earnings from these investments are included on an after-tax basis in Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company has made these investments through its PGIM and International Businesses segments, and its Corporate and Other operations. The summarized financial information for the Company s operating joint ventures has been included in the summarized combined financial information for all significant equity method investments shown in Note 3. years ended December 31: respectively, of asset management fee income for services the Company provided to these operating joint ventures. 10. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES CIGNA 219 Prudential Annuities Holding Co. 29 Gibraltar Life 852 Gibraltar BSN Life Berhad 3 (in millions) Estimated future VOBA amortization 99 93 85 79 72 (in millions) Investment in operating joint ventures 1,394 1,309 1,329 Dividends received from operating joint ventures 60 70 93 After-tax equity in earnings of operating joint ventures 96 100 76 The following table provides VOBA balances for the year ended December 31, 2020: The following table provides estimated future amortization, net of interest, for the periods indicated: The Company has made investments in certain joint ventures that are strategic in nature and made other than for the sole The following table sets forth information related to the Company s investments in operating joint ventures as of and for the For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized 30 million, 29 million and 32 million, The changes in the carrying value of goodwill by reportable segment are as follows: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 305 425 Table of Contents (1) The goodwill associated with Assurance IQ includes a measurement period adjustment made during 2020. The goodwill reclass between International Businesses and Other relates to an operation that became classified as divested business and transferred to Corporate and Other during 2020. circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount, as discussed in further detail in Note 2. The Company performed the annual goodwill test using the quantitative approach for all reporting units at December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2019, the Company performed a qualitative goodwill impairment assessment for Assurance IQ and applied the quantitative goodwill impairment approach for all other reporting units. described above, exceeded the carrying value by 10%, while the estimated fair values of the other reporting units with allocated goodwill exceeded their carrying value by a weighted average of 229%. For all reporting units tested, unanticipated changes in business performance or regulatory environment, market declines or other events impacting the fair value of these businesses, including changes in market multiples, discount rates, interest rates and growth rates assumptions or increases in the level of equity required to support these businesses, could cause an impairment of goodwill, resulting in a charge to income. Other Intangibles respectively. Amortization expense for other intangibles was 102 million, 65 million and 61 million for the years ending December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The amortization expense amounts for 2020, 2019 and 2018 do not include impairments recorded for mortgage servicing rights or other intangibles. See the nonrecurring fair value measurements section of Note 6 for more information regarding these impairments. (in millions) Goodwill balance, December 31, 2017: 235 444 0 164 0 843 Goodwill balance, December 31, 2018: 233 455 0 164 11 863 Goodwill balance, December 31, 2019: 254 455 2,128 165 11 3,013 Goodwill balance, December 31, 2020: 258 455 2,140 144 38 3,035 (in millions) Subject to amortization: Not subject to amortization 69 N A 69 69 N A 69 Acquisitions 0 11 0 0 11 22 Foreign currency translation (2) 0 0 0 0 (2) Acquisitions 22 0 2,128 0 0 2,150 Foreign currency translation (1) 0 0 1 0 0 Foreign currency translation and other(1) 4 0 12 (21) 27 22 Mortgage servicing rights 819 (512) 307 745 (468) 277 Customer relationships 247 (175) 72 244 (153) 91 Software and other 192 (60) 132 201 (38) 163 The Company tests goodwill for impairment annually, as of December 31, and more frequently if an event occurs or As of December 31, 2020, the estimated fair value of Assurance IQ, based on a weighted average of the valuation approaches Estimating the fair value of reporting units is a subjective process that involves the use of significant estimates by management. Other intangible balances at December 31, are as follows: The fair values of net mortgage servicing rights were 309 million and 287 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, The following table provides estimated future amortization for the periods indicated: Total 580 600 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Gross Carrying PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. PGIM Retirement Amortization Accumulated Net Carrying Gross Carrying International Businesses Other Total Amortization Accumulated Net Carrying 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 306 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 307 425 Table of Contents 11. LEASES into numerous leases covering the long-term use of computers and other equipment. The leases, depending on their specific terms, are classified as either operating or finance with the vast majority of leases falling under the operating classification. The leases in the Company s portfolio have remaining lease terms from less than one year to 28 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 15 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within 8 years. An analysis of all economic and non-economic factors associated with leases containing certain options, including factors such as the existence of cancellation penalties, leasehold improvements made to the underlying assets and location of the underlying assets, is conducted to determine whether those leases are reasonably certain to renew, and hence, should be included in the lease term that is used to establish the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for those arrangements. covenants associated with its lease arrangements. Lessee assets and lease liabilities are included within Other assets and Other liabilities respectively. costs. Operating lease costs were 156 million and 138 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Short-term lease costs were 104 million and 101 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Short-term lease costs relate to those leases with terms of twelve months or less that do not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that is reasonably certain of exercise. Operating Leases: Thereafter 80 Total lease payments 556 Less imputed interest (45) Estimated future amortization expense of other intangibles 101 93 76 46 38 The Company occupies leased office space and other facilities in many locations under various long-term leases and has entered The Company does not have residual guarantees associated with its lessee arrangements, nor are there any restrictions or Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases where the Company is the lessee is included below. Right-of-use Maturities of operating lease liabilities are as follows: Lease expense is included in General and administrative expenses, which was comprised of operating lease and short-term Right-of-use assets 466 554 Lease liabilities 511 594 Weighted average remaining lease term 6 years 6 years Weighted average discount rate 2.22 % 2.46 % Total 511 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 (in millions) ( in millions) December 31, December 31, 2020 (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 308 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 309 425 Table of Contents the Company serving as the lessor. The terms of the leases vary depending on property type (e.g., commercial or residential). In most cases, the lessee has an option to renew the lease contract based on market rates but does not have an option to purchase the property. The terms of the leases may also include provisions for the use of common areas. Such non-lease components are not separately accounted for by the Company, as a result of applying the practical expedient discussed in Note 2. Lease income included in Net investment income were 161 million and 182 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 12. POLICYHOLDERS LIABILITIES Future Policy Benefits benefits. Individual and group annuities and supplementary contracts liabilities include reserves for life contingent immediate annuities and life contingent group annuities. Other contract liabilities include unearned premiums and certain other reserves for group, annuities and individual life and health products. calculated using the guaranteed mortality and nonforfeiture interest rates which range from 2.5% to 7.5%. Participating insurance represented 3% and 2% of direct individual life insurance in force as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and 10%, 11% and 12% of direct individual life insurance premiums for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. policies and individual health insurance policies are generally equal to the present value of future benefit payments and related expenses, less the present value of future net premiums. Assumptions as to mortality, morbidity and persistency are based on the Company s experience, industry data, and or other factors, when the basis of the reserve is established. Interest rates used in the determination of the present values range from (0.1)% to 7.8%. equal to the present value of expected future payments. Assumptions as to mortality are based on the Company s experience, industry data, and or other factors, when the basis of the reserve is established. The interest rates used in the determination of the present values range from (0.2)% to 12.1% less than 1% of the reserves are based on an interest rate in excess of 8%. the Company s experience, except for example, certain group insurance coverages for which future policy benefits are equal to gross unearned premium reserves. The interest rates used in the determination of the present values range from 0.2% to 6.5%. duration life and annuity contracts. Liabilities for guaranteed benefits with embedded derivative features are primarily in other contract liabilities in the table above. The remaining liabilities for guaranteed benefits are primarily reflected with the underlying contract in the table above. See Note 13 for additional information regarding liabilities for guaranteed benefits related to certain long- duration life and annuity contracts. (in millions) Life insurance 195,245 191,654 Individual and group annuities and supplementary contracts 77,254 75,940 Other contract liabilities 30,873 23,052 Unpaid claims and claim settlement expenses 2,971 2,881 Subtotal future policy benefits excluding unpaid claims and claim settlement expenses 303,372 290,646 Total future policy benefits 306,343 293,527 The Company directly owns real estate properties within its investment portfolio. Such real estate is leased to third-parties, with Future policy benefits at December 31 for the years indicated are as follows: Life insurance liabilities include reserves for death and endowment policy benefits, terminal dividends and certain health Future policy benefits for individual participating traditional life insurance are based on the net level premium method, Future policy benefits for individual non-participating traditional life insurance policies, group and individual long-term care Future policy benefits for individual and group annuities and supplementary contracts with life contingencies are generally Future policy benefits for other contract liabilities are generally equal to the present value of expected future payments based on The Company s liability for future policy benefits is also inclusive of liabilities for guaranteed benefits related to certain long- Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 310 425 Table of Contents liability for future policy benefits plus the present value of expected future gross premiums are determined to be insufficient to provide for expected future policy benefits and expenses. Additionally, in certain instances the policyholder liability for a particular line of business may not be deficient in the aggregate to trigger loss recognition, but the pattern of earnings may be such that profits are expected to be recognized in earlier years followed by losses in later years. In these situations, accounting standards require that an additional PFL liability be recognized by an amount necessary to sufficiently offset the losses that would be recognized in later years. Premium deficiencies have been recognized in the past for the group single premium annuity business, which consists of limited-payment, long-duration traditional, non-participating annuities structured settlements single premium immediate annuities with life contingencies long-term care certain individual health policies and certain interest-sensitive life products. expenses as well as estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported as of the balance sheet date related to group disability products. Unpaid claim liabilities that are discounted use interest rates ranging from 1.8% to 6.4%. Policyholders Account Balances expense charges and mortality charges, if applicable. These policyholders account balances also include provisions for benefits under non-life contingent payout annuities and certain unearned revenues. Policyholders account balances also include amounts representing the fair value of embedded derivative instruments associated with the index-linked features of certain universal life and annuity products. See Note 6 for additional information on the fair value of these embedded derivative instruments. Included in Funding agreements at December 31, 2020 and 2019 are 4,402 million and 4,104 million, respectively, related to the Company s Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program ( FANIP ). Under this program, which has a maximum authorized amount of 15 billion of medium-term notes and 3 billion of commercial paper, Delaware statutory trusts issue short-term commercial paper and or medium-term notes to investors that are secured by funding agreements issued to the trusts by PICA. The outstanding commercial paper and notes have fixed or floating interest rates that range from 0.0% to 3.5% and original maturities ranging from two months to five years. Included in the amounts at December 31, 2020 and 2019 is the medium-term note liability, which is carried at amortized cost, of 2,414 million and 2,414 million, respectively and short-term note liability of 1,991 million and 1,697 million, respectively. York ( FHLBNY ) at December 31, 2020 and 2019 totaled 2,522 million and 0 million, respectively. These obligations, which are carried at amortized cost, have fixed or floating interest rates that range from 0.6% to 1.9% and original maturities ranging from nine months to seven years. For additional details on the FHLBNY program, see Note 17. interest-sensitive life. Less than 1% of policyholders account balances have interest crediting rates in excess of 8%. (in millions) Individual annuities 47,663 44,391 Group annuities 30,700 27,843 Guaranteed investment contracts and guaranteed interest accounts 14,071 13,759 Funding agreements 6,938 4,119 Interest-sensitive life contracts 41,711 40,364 Dividend accumulation and other deposit type funds 20,599 21,634 Total policyholders account balances 161,682 152,110 Reserves for recognizing a premium deficiency included in Future policy benefits are established, if necessary, when the Unpaid claims and claim settlement expenses primarily reflect the Company s estimate of future disability claim payments and Policyholders account balances at December 31 for the years indicated are as follows: Policyholders account balances primarily represent an accumulation of account deposits plus credited interest less withdrawals, Also included in Funding agreements are collateralized funding agreements issued to the Federal Home Loan Bank of New Interest crediting rates range from 0% to 6.3% for interest-sensitive life contracts and from 0% to 13.3% for contracts other than Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 311 425 Table of Contents 13. CERTAIN LONG-DURATION CONTRACTS WITH GUARANTEES and losses accrue directly to, and investment risk is borne by, the contractholder. The Company also issues variable annuity contracts with general and separate account options where the Company contractually guarantees to the contractholder a return of no less than total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals ( return of net deposits ). In certain of these variable annuity contracts, the Company also contractually guarantees to the contractholder a return of no less than (1) total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return ( minimum return ), and or (2) the highest contract value on a specified date adjusted for any withdrawals ( contract value ). These guarantees include benefits that are payable in the event of death, annuitization or at specified dates during the accumulation period and withdrawal and income benefits payable during specified periods. The Company also issues annuity contracts and single premium life contracts with market value adjusted investment options ( MVAs ). Annuity contracts and single premium life contracts with MVAs provide for a return of principal plus a fixed rate of return if held-to-maturity, or, alternatively, a market adjusted value if surrendered prior to maturity or if funds are reallocated to other investment options. The market value adjustment may result in a gain or loss to the Company, depending on crediting rates or an indexed rate at surrender, as applicable. The Company also issues fixed deferred and immediate annuity contracts, some without MVA, that have a guaranteed credited rate and annuity benefit. The Company also issues indexed variable annuity contracts for which the return is tied to the return of specific indices where the Company contractually guarantees to the contractholder a return of no less than total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals upon death. contractually guarantees to the contractholder a death benefit even when there is insufficient value to cover monthly mortality and expense charges, whereas otherwise the contract would typically lapse ( no-lapse guarantee ). Variable life and variable universal life contracts are offered with general and separate account options. assets with an equivalent amount reported as Separate account liabilities. Amounts assessed against the contractholders for mortality, administration, and other services are included within revenue in Policy charges and fee income and changes in liabilities for minimum guarantees are generally included in Policyholders benefits or Realized investment gains (losses), net. guaranteed minimum death benefit in excess of the current account balance at the balance sheet date. The Company s primary risk exposures for these contracts relates to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including fixed income and equity market returns, contract lapses and contractholder mortality. the minimum guaranteed annuity payments available to the contractholder determined in accordance with the terms of the contract in excess of the current account balance. The Company s primary risk exposures for these contracts relates to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including fixed income and equity market returns, timing of annuitization, contract lapses and contractholder mortality. minimum guaranteed withdrawal payments available to the contractholder determined in accordance with the terms of the contract in excess of the current account balance. For guarantees of accumulation balances, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the guaranteed minimum accumulation balance minus the current account balance. The Company s primary risk exposures for these contracts relates to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including equity market returns, interest rates, market volatility and contractholder behavior. listed may not be mutually exclusive. The liabilities related to the net amount at risk are reflected within Future policy benefits. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company had the following guarantees associated with these contracts, by product and guarantee type: The Company issues variable annuity contracts through its separate accounts for which investment income and investment gains In addition, the Company issues certain variable life, variable universal life and universal life contracts where the Company The assets supporting the variable portion of all variable annuities are carried at fair value and reported as Separate account For those guarantees of benefits that are payable in the event of death, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the current For guarantees of benefits that are payable at annuitization, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the present value of For guarantees of benefits that are payable at withdrawal, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the present value of the The Company s contracts with guarantees may offer more than one type of guarantee in each contract therefore, the amounts Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 312 425 Table of Contents (1) Includes income and withdrawal benefits. 7,781 million at December 31, 2019, of account balances of variable annuity contracts with guarantees, inclusive of contracts with MVA features, were invested in general account investment options. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, there were no transfers of assets, other than cash, from the general account to any separate account, and accordingly no gains or losses recorded. Liabilities for Guarantee Benefits included in Future policy benefits and the related changes in the liabilities are included in Policyholders benefits. GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB are accounted for as embedded derivatives and are recorded at fair value within Future policy benefits. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives, including changes in the Company s own risk of non-performance, along with any fees attributed or payments made relating to the derivative, are recorded in Realized investment gains (losses), net. See Note 6 for additional information regarding the methodology used in determining the fair value of these embedded derivatives. The Company maintains a portfolio of derivative investments that serve as a partial hedge of the risks associated with these products, for which the changes in fair value are also recorded in Realized investment gains (losses), December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 ( in millions) Annuity Contracts Return of net deposits Account value 133,726 17 130,893 16 Net amount at risk 214 0 244 0 Average attained age of contractholders 68 years 75 years 67 years 75 years Minimum return or contract value Account value 31,157 148,841 32,609 147,511 Net amount at risk 2,327 4,203 2,626 4,578 Average attained age of contractholders 70 years 68 years 69 years 68 years Average period remaining until earliest expected annuitization N A 0.20 years N A 0.17 years December 31, In the Event of Death ( in millions) Variable Life, Variable Universal Life and Universal Life Contracts Separate account value 8,939 9,983 General account value 19,279 18,225 Net amount at risk 222,703 245,929 Average attained age of contractholders 55 years 55 years December 31, (in millions) Equity funds 94,270 93,010 Bond funds 62,549 60,074 Balanced funds 0 1,592 Money market funds 3,156 3,530 Total 159,975 158,206 Account balances of variable annuity contracts with guarantees were invested in separate account investment options as In addition to the amounts invested in separate account investment options above, 7,729 million at December 31, 2020, and The table below summarizes the changes in general account liabilities for guarantees. The liabilities for GMDB and GMIB are Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. In the Event At Annuitization Accumulation(1) In the Event At Annuitization Accumulation(1) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 313 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 314 425 Table of Contents net. This portfolio of derivative investments does not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. Additionally, the Company externally reinsures the guaranteed benefit features associated with certain contracts. See Note 14 for further information regarding the external reinsurance arrangement. (1) Incurred guarantee benefits include the portion of assessments established as additions to reserves as well as changes in estimates affecting the reserves. Also includes changes in the fair value of features considered to be derivatives. (2) Other primarily represents foreign currency translation. (3) Includes the impact from the sale of POK. assessments (which include all policy charges including charges for administration, mortality, expense, surrender, and other, regardless of how characterized) are recognized. This liability is established using current best estimate assumptions and is based on the ratio of the present value of total expected excess payments (e.g., payments in excess of account value) over the life of the contract divided by the present value of total expected assessments (i.e., benefit ratio). The liability equals the current benefit ratio multiplied by cumulative assessments recognized to date, plus interest, less cumulative excess payments to date. Similar to as described above for DAC, the reserves are subject to adjustments based on annual reviews of assumptions and quarterly adjustments for experience, including market performance. These adjustments reflect the impact on the benefit ratio of using actual historical experience from the issuance date to the balance sheet date plus updated estimates of future experience. The updated benefit ratio is then applied to all prior periods assessments to derive an adjustment to the reserve recognized through a benefit or charge to current period earnings. applicable. The most significant of the Company s GMAB features are the guaranteed return option features, which includes an automatic rebalancing element that reduces the Company s exposure to these guarantees. The GMAB liability is calculated as the present value of future expected payments in excess of the account balance less the present value of future expected rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. to zero through a combination of market declines and withdrawals. The guaranteed remaining balance is generally equal to the protected value under the contract, which is initially established as the greater of the account value or cumulative deposits when withdrawals commence, less cumulative withdrawals. The contractholder also has the option, after a specified time period, to reset the guaranteed remaining balance to the then current account value, if greater. The contractholder accesses the guaranteed remaining balance through payments over time, subject to maximum annual limits. The GMWB liability is calculated as the present value of future expected payments to customers less the present value of future expected rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. GMDB GMIB GMAB GMWB GMIWB (in millions) Balance at December 31, 2017 5,110 697 419 8,721 Balance at December 31, 2018 5,418 713 378 8,927 Balance at December 31, 2019 7,602 753 355 12,831 Balance at December 31, 2020 9,509 863 368 18,881 Incurred guarantee benefits(1) 791 125 (14) 206 Paid guarantee benefits (77) (88) (5) 0 Change in unrealized investment gains and losses (406) (20) (20) 0 Other(2) 0 (1) (2) 0 Incurred guarantee benefits(1) 1,492 82 (8) 3,905 Paid guarantee benefits (111) (69) (4) 0 Change in unrealized investment gains and losses 805 27 (15) 0 Other(2) (2) 0 4 (1) Incurred guarantee benefits(1) 1,389 162 12 6,103 Paid guarantee benefits (126) (89) (4) 0 Change in unrealized investment gains and losses 721 38 (8) 0 Other(2)(3) (77) (1) 13 (53) The GMDB, which includes the liability for no-lapse guarantees, and GMIB liability are established when associated The GMAB features provide the contractholder with a guaranteed return of initial account value or an enhanced value if The GMWB features provide the contractholder with access to a guaranteed remaining balance if the account value is reduced Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. and Universal Life Annuity Annuity Annuity Universal Life Variable Life, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 315 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 316 425 Table of Contents payments over time, a withdrawal option or an income option. The withdrawal option (which was available under only one of the GMIWBs and is no longer offered) guarantees that a contractholder can withdraw an amount each year until the cumulative withdrawals reach a total guaranteed balance. The income option (which varies among the Company s GMIWBs) in general guarantees the contractholder the ability to withdraw an amount each year for life (or for joint lives, in the case of any spousal version of the benefit) where such amount is equal to a percentage of a protected value under the benefit. The contractholder also has the potential to increase this annual amount, based on certain subsequent increases in account value that may occur. The GMIWB can be elected by the contractholder upon issuance of an appropriate deferred variable annuity contract or at any time following contract issue prior to annuitization. Certain GMIWB features include an automatic rebalancing element that reduces the Company s exposure to these guarantees. The GMIWB liability is calculated as the present value of future expected payments to customers less the present value of future expected rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. Sales Inducements and assumptions used to amortize DAC. DSI is included in Other assets. The Company has offered various types of sales inducements including: (1) a bonus whereby the policyholder s initial account balance is increased by an amount equal to a specified percentage of the customer s initial deposit (2) additional credits after a certain number of years a contract is held and (3) enhanced interest crediting rates that are higher than the normal general account interest rate credited in certain product lines. Changes in DSI, reported as Interest credited to policyholders account balances, are as follows: 14. REINSURANCE maximum net loss potential arising from large risks and acquire or dispose of businesses. external counterparty, to reinsure approximately 50% of the Prudential Premier Retirement Variable Annuity with Highest Daily Lifetime Income ( HDI ) v.3.0 business, a guaranteed benefit feature. This reinsurance agreement covered most new HDI v.3.0 variable annuity business issued between April 1, 2015 and December 31, 2016 on a quota share basis, with Union Hamilton s cumulative quota share amounting to 2.9 billion of new rider premiums as of December 31, 2016. Reinsurance on business subject to this agreement remains in force for the duration of the underlying annuity contracts. New sales subsequent to December 31, 2016 are not covered by this external reinsurance agreement. This reinsurance agreement is accounted for as an embedded derivative. Sales Inducements (in millions) Balance at December 31, 2017 1,168 Balance at December 31, 2018 1,024 Balance at December 31, 2019 935 Balance at December 31, 2020 820 Capitalization 3 Amortization Impact of assumption and experience unlocking and true-ups (6) Amortization All other (166) Change in unrealized investment gains and losses 25 Capitalization 1 Amortization Impact of assumption and experience unlocking and true-ups 108 Amortization All other (163) Change in unrealized investment gains and losses (35) Capitalization 1 Amortization Impact of assumption and experience unlocking and true-ups 104 Amortization All other (166) Change in unrealized investment gains and losses (54) The GMIWB features, taken collectively, provide a contractholder two optional methods to receive guaranteed minimum The Company defers sales inducements and amortizes them over the anticipated life of the policy using the same methodology The Company participates in reinsurance with third parties primarily to provide additional capacity for future growth, limit the Effective April 1, 2015, the Company entered into an agreement with Union Hamilton Reinsurance, Ltd. ( Union Hamilton ) an Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 317 425 Table of Contents Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. ( Hartford Financial ). Under the related agreements, the Company provided reinsurance for approximately 700,000 life insurance policies with net retained face amount in force of approximately 141 billion. The Company acquired the general account business through a coinsurance arrangement and, for certain types of general account policies, a modified coinsurance arrangement. The Company acquired the separate account business through a modified coinsurance arrangement. In May 2018, Hartford Financial sold a group of operating subsidiaries, which included two of the Company s counterparties to these reinsurance arrangements. There was no impact to the terms, rights or obligations of the Company, or operation of these reinsurance arrangements, as a result of this change in control of such counterparties. In January 2021, there was a definitive agreement announced to subsequently sell the two counterparties mentioned above. We anticipate there will be no impact to the terms, rights or obligations of the Company, or operation of these reinsurance arrangements, as a result of this change in control of such counterparties. Under these arrangements, the Company assumes the longevity risk, and in some arrangements, also the investment risk associated with the pension benefits of certain specified beneficiaries. transaction. The reinsurance arrangements with Allstate include a coinsurance arrangement associated with the general account liabilities assumed and a modified coinsurance arrangement associated with the separate account liabilities assumed. The reinsurance payable, which represents the Company s obligation under the modified coinsurance arrangement, is netted with the reinsurance receivable in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. In January 2021, Allstate announced a definitive agreement to sell the Company s counterparty to these reinsurance arrangements. We anticipate there will be no impact to the terms, rights or obligations of the Company, or operation of these reinsurance arrangements, as a result of this change in control of such counterparty. arrangements. The Company still has indemnity coinsurance and modified coinsurance without assumption arrangements in effect related to this acquisition. renewable term, per person excess, excess of loss, and coinsurance. On policies sold since 2000, the Company has reinsured a significant portion of the individual life mortality risk. Placement of reinsurance is accomplished primarily on an automatic basis with some specific risks reinsured on a facultative basis. The Company is authorized and has historically retained up to 30 million per life, but reduced its operating retention limit to 20 million per life in 2013. Retention in excess of the operating limit is on an exception basis. lesser extent, to mitigate mortality risk for certain protection products and for capital management purposes. policyholders benefits for the years ended December 31, are as follows: In January 2013, the Company acquired the Hartford Life Business through reinsurance transactions with three subsidiaries of Since 2011, the Company has entered into several reinsurance agreements to assume pension liabilities in the United Kingdom. In 2006, the Company acquired the variable annuity business of The Allstate Corporation ( Allstate ) through a reinsurance In 2004, the Company acquired the retirement business of CIGNA and subsequently entered into various reinsurance For the domestic business, life and disability reinsurance is accomplished through various plans of reinsurance, primarily yearly The international business primarily uses reinsurance to obtain experience with respect to certain new product offerings and to a Reinsurance amounts included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for premiums, policy charges and fee income, and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 318 425 Table of Contents (1) Primarily represents reinsurance recoverables established under the reinsurance arrangements associated with the acquisition of the retirement business of CIGNA. The Company has recorded reinsurance recoverables related to the acquisition of the retirement business of CIGNA of 27 million and 553 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Also included is 204 million and 95 million of reinsurance recoverables at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, established under the reinsurance agreement with Union Hamilton related to the ceding of certain embedded derivative liabilities associated with the Company s guaranteed benefits. of CIGNA, four major reinsurance companies account for approximately 59% of the reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2020. The Company periodically reviews the financial condition of its reinsurers, amounts recoverable therefrom, and unearned reinsurance premium, in order to reduce its exposure to loss from reinsurer insolvencies. Any expected credit losses are reflected in the CECL allowance, after considering any collateral the Company obtained in the form of a trust, letter of credit, or funds withheld arrangement. See Note 2 for additional details regarding CECL. Under the Company s longevity reinsurance transactions, the Company obtains collateral from its counterparties to mitigate counterparty default risk. 15. CLOSED BLOCK policies and annuity products, along with corresponding assets used for the payment of benefits and policyholders dividends on these products, (collectively the Closed Block ), and ceased offering these participating products. The recorded assets and liabilities were allocated to the Closed Block at their historical carrying amounts. The Closed Block forms the principal component of the Closed Block division. See Note 22 for financial information on the Closed Block. The insurance policies and annuity contracts comprising the Closed Block are managed in accordance with the Plan of Reorganization approved by the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance ( NJDOBI ) on December 18, 2001, and PICA is directly obligated for the insurance policies and annuity contracts in the Closed Block. (in millions) Direct premiums 29,091 33,260 35,048 Reinsurance assumed 4,336 3,022 2,574 Reinsurance ceded (2,287) (2,080) (1,843) Direct policy charges and fee income 5,341 5,252 5,245 Reinsurance assumed 1,192 1,181 1,189 Reinsurance ceded (504) (455) (432) Direct policyholders benefits 32,514 35,601 38,079 Reinsurance assumed 5,659 4,304 3,659 Reinsurance ceded (3,114) (3,085) (2,334) (in millions) Individual and group annuities(1) 273 688 Life insurance(2) 6,649 5,535 Other reinsurance 432 403 (2) Includes 2,245 million and 2,105 million of reinsurance recoverables established at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, under the reinsurance arrangements associated with the acquisition of the Hartford Life Business. The Company has also recorded reinsurance payables related to the Hartford Life Business acquisition of 1,362 million and 1,290 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (3) Net of (5) million of loss allowance at December 31, 2020. Premiums 31,140 34,202 35,779 Policy charges and fee income 6,029 5,978 6,002 Policyholders benefits 35,059 36,820 39,404 Total reinsurance recoverables(3) 7,354 6,626 Reinsurance recoverables at December 31, are as follows: Excluding the reinsurance recoverable associated with the acquisition of the Hartford Life Business and the retirement business On December 18, 2001, the date of demutualization, PICA established a closed block for certain in-force participating insurance Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 319 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 320 425 Table of Contents were in force on the date of demutualization and for which PICA is currently paying or expects to pay experience-based policy dividends. Assets have been allocated to the Closed Block in an amount that has been determined to produce cash flows which, together with revenues from policies included in the Closed Block, are expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including provision for payment of benefits, certain expenses and taxes and to provide for continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect in 2000, assuming experience underlying such scales continues. To the extent that, over time, cash flows from the assets allocated to the Closed Block and claims and other experience related to the Closed Block are, in the aggregate, more or less favorable than what was assumed when the Closed Block was established, total dividends paid to Closed Block policyholders may be greater than or less than the total dividends that would have been paid to these policyholders if the policyholder dividend scales in effect in 2000 had been continued. Any cash flows in excess of amounts assumed will be available for distribution over time to Closed Block policyholders and will not be available to shareholders. If the Closed Block has insufficient funds to make guaranteed policy benefit payments, such payments will be made from PICA s assets outside of the Closed Block. The Closed Block will continue in effect as long as any policy in the Closed Block remains in force unless, with the consent of the New Jersey insurance regulator, it is terminated earlier. impact of related amounts in AOCI) represented the estimated maximum future earnings at that date from the Closed Block expected to result from operations attributed to the Closed Block after income taxes. In establishing the Closed Block, the Company developed an actuarial calculation of the timing of such maximum future earnings. If actual cumulative earnings of the Closed Block from inception through the end of any given period are greater than the expected cumulative earnings, only the expected earnings will be recognized in income. Any excess of actual cumulative earnings over expected cumulative earnings will represent undistributed accumulated earnings attributable to policyholders, which are recorded as a policyholder dividend obligation. The policyholder dividend obligation represents amounts to be paid to Closed Block policyholders as an additional policyholder dividend unless otherwise offset by future Closed Block performance that is less favorable than originally expected. If the actual cumulative earnings of the Closed Block from its inception through the end of any given period are less than the expected cumulative earnings of the Closed Block, the Company will recognize only the actual earnings in income. million, respectively, to Closed Block policyholders for the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings. Additionally, accumulated net unrealized investment gains that have arisen subsequent to the establishment of the Closed Block have been reflected as a policyholder dividend obligation of 5,867 million and 3,332 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, to be paid to Closed Block policyholders unless offset by future experience, with a corresponding amount reported in AOCI. for 2019. On December 6, 2019, PICA s Board of Directors acted to decrease the dividends payable on Closed Block policies for 2020. On December 4, 2020, PICA s Board of Directors acted to decrease the dividends payable on Closed Block policies for 2021. These actions resulted in decreases of approximately 86 million, 79 million and 147 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively, in the liability for policyholders dividends recognized. recognized from these liabilities and assets, are as follows: The policies included in the Closed Block are specified individual life insurance policies and individual annuity contracts that The excess of Closed Block liabilities over Closed Block assets at the date of the demutualization (adjusted to eliminate the As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company recognized a policyholder dividend obligation of 2,920 million and 2,816 On December 7, 2018, PICA s Board of Directors approved a continuation of the dividends payable on Closed Block policies Closed Block liabilities and assets designated to the Closed Block at December 31, as well as maximum future earnings to be Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 321 425 Table of Contents (1) See Note 2 for more information. (in millions) Closed Block liabilities Closed Block assets Excess of reported Closed Block liabilities over Closed Block assets 2,607 2,661 Portion of above representing accumulated other comprehensive income (loss): Future earnings to be recognized from Closed Block assets and Closed Block liabilities 2,550 2,609 (in millions) Balance, January 1 6,149 3,150 Balance, December 31 8,787 6,149 Future policy benefits 46,762 47,613 Policyholders dividends payable 635 717 Policyholders dividend obligation 8,787 6,149 Policyholders account balances 4,874 4,973 Other Closed Block liabilities 3,141 4,049 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value 41,959 41,146 Fixed maturities, trading, at fair value 277 256 Equity securities, at fair value 2,345 2,245 Commercial mortgage and other loans 8,421 8,629 Policy loans 4,064 4,264 Other invested assets 3,610 3,333 Short-term investments 124 227 Cash and cash equivalents 269 191 Accrued investment income 431 456 Other Closed Block assets 92 93 Cumulative effect adjustment from the adoption of ASU 2016-13(1) (13) 0 Impact from earnings allocable to policyholder dividend obligation 117 564 Change in net unrealized investment gains (losses) allocated to policyholder dividend obligation 2,534 2,435 Information regarding the policyholder dividend obligation is as follows: Total Closed Block liabilities 64,199 63,501 Total investments 60,800 60,100 Total Closed Block assets 61,592 60,840 Net unrealized investment gains (losses) 5,810 3,280 Allocated to policyholder dividend obligation (5,867) (3,332) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 322 425 Table of Contents 16. INCOME TAXES (in millions) Benefits and Expenses Closed Block revenues, net of Closed Block benefits and expenses, before income taxes 19 75 (14) Income tax expense (benefit) (43) 10 (78) Closed Block revenues, net of Closed Block benefits and expenses and income taxes 62 65 64 Current tax expense (benefit): Deferred tax expense (benefit): Total income tax expense (benefit) on income (loss) before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures (81) 947 822 Income tax expense (benefit) on equity in earnings of operating joint ventures 47 43 31 Income tax expense (benefit) on discontinued operations 0 0 0 Income tax expense (benefit) reported in equity related to: Total income taxes 1,218 4,801 (959) Premiums 1,981 2,207 2,301 Net investment income 2,255 2,332 2,298 Realized investment gains (losses), net 182 521 130 Other income (loss) 362 589 (39) Policyholders benefits 2,758 2,906 2,972 Interest credited to policyholders account balances 127 130 132 Dividends to policyholders 1,549 2,187 1,236 General and administrative expenses 327 351 364 U.S. (571) 86 (346) State and local 11 2 7 Foreign 848 879 681 Total current tax expense (benefit) 288 967 342 U.S. (362) 57 80 State and local 1 (1) 1 Foreign (8) (76) 399 Total deferred tax expense (benefit) (369) (20) 480 Other comprehensive income (loss) 1,252 3,811 (1,812) Stock-based compensation programs 0 0 0 Closed Block revenues and benefits and expenses for the years ended December 31, are as follows: The following schedule discloses significant components of income tax expense (benefit) for each year presented: Total Closed Block revenues 4,780 5,649 4,690 Total Closed Block benefits and expenses 4,761 5,574 4,704 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2020 2019 2018 Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 323 425 Table of Contents and 2018, and the reported income tax expense (benefit) are summarized as follows: (1) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. earnings of operating joint ventures. The Company s effective tax rate for fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 25.1%, 18.6% and 17.0%, respectively. The following is a description of items that had the most significant impact on the difference between the Company s statutory U.S. federal income tax rate of 21% applicable for 2020, 2019 and 2018, and the Company s effective tax rate during the periods presented: subject to U.S. tax and accounts for most of the non-taxable investment income shown in the table above. More specifically, the U.S. DRD constitutes 109 million of the total 228 million of 2020 non-taxable investment income, 122 million of the total 270 million of 2019 non-taxable investment income, and 127 million of the total 250 million of 2018 non-taxable investment income. The DRD for the current period was estimated using information from 2019, current year investment results, and current year s equity market performance. The actual current year DRD can vary based on factors such as, but not limited to, changes in the amount of dividends received that are eligible for the DRD, changes in the amount of distributions received from fund investments, changes in the account balances of variable life and annuity contracts, and the Company s taxable income before the DRD. approximately 28% in Japan as compared to the U.S. federal income tax rate of 21% applicable for 2020, 2019 and 2018. insurance operations in Brazil to tax in the U.S. in the tax year earned, net of related foreign tax credits. This election has the effect of reducing the rate at which the Company will incur taxes on these earnings from the approximately 40% tax rate in Brazil to the 21% tax rate in the U.S., which in turn will reduce the amount of associated income tax expense in 2018 and thereafter. In conjunction with this election, the Company remeasured its related deferred tax assets from the previous 45% rate in Brazil to the new rate of 21% in the U.S., which resulted in additional income tax expense at the time of election. The net effect of the lower tax rate and the remeasurement of the deferred tax assets was a net increase (decrease) in income tax expense of 34 million in 2018, (3) million in 2019 and 24 million in 2020. In October 2019, the IRS issued a legal memorandum, applicable to all taxpayers, in which the IRS argues that the election became inoperable in 1998. The Company disagrees with (in millions) Expected federal income tax expense (benefit) (68) 1,068 1,015 Non-taxable investment income (228) (270) (250) Foreign taxes at other than U.S. rate 252 234 347 Low-income housing and other tax credits (112) (118) (112) Changes in tax law (194) (2) (321) Sale of subsidiary 277 4 10 Non-controlling interest (48) (11) 0 Non-deductible expenses 14 23 33 Change in valuation allowance 17 (1) (6) State taxes 10 1 6 Other (1) 19 100 Reported income tax expense (benefit) (81) 947 822 Effective tax rate 25.1 % 18.6 % 17.0 % Reconciliation of Expected Tax at Statutory Rates to Reported Income Tax Expense (Benefit) The differences between income taxes expected at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 21% applicable for 2020, 2019 The effective tax rate is the ratio of Total income tax expense (benefit) divided by Income before income taxes and equity in Non-Taxable Investment Income. The U.S. Dividends Received Deduction ( DRD ) reduces the amount of dividend income Foreign Taxes at Other Than U.S. Rates. The statutory income tax rate in the Company s largest non-U.S. tax jurisdiction is The 952 Election. The Company made a tax election, effective for the 2017 and later tax years, to subject earnings from its Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2020 2019(1) 2018(1) Year Ended December 31, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 324 425 Table of Contents the IRS s position and intends to defend its position. If the Company is ultimately not successful, it will not be able to claim a U.S. tax credit for the Brazil taxes in excess of the U.S. tax rate, and thus will have a higher tax expense over time. affordable housing aiming at low-income Americans. The Company routinely makes such investments that generate a tax credit which reduces the Company s effective tax rate. periods presented: the collection, preparation and analysis of data relevant to the Tax Act of 2017, and interpreted any additional guidance issued by the IRS, U.S. Department of the Treasury, or other standard-setting organizations, and recognized a 153 million reduction in income tax expense primarily related to refinements of our provisional estimates of earnings of affiliated foreign companies subject to the one- time toll charge. guaranteed benefits within variable annuity contracts and principle-based reserves on certain life insurance contracts. Adopting the methodology specified in the Directive resulted in an accelerated deduction for the Company s 2017 tax return that would have otherwise been deductible in future years. Prior to the adoption of this Directive, the Company accounted for these future deductions as deferred tax assets measured using the current 21% corporate income tax rate. Upon adoption of the Directive, the tax benefits were revalued using the 35% tax rate applicable for the 2017 tax year and resulted in a reduction in income tax expense of 198 million in 2018. into law. One provision of the CARES Act amends the Tax Act of 2017 and allows companies with net operating losses ( NOLs ) originating in 2020, 2019 or 2018 to carry back those losses for up to five years. For 2020, the Company has recorded an income tax benefit of 149 million and 51 million from carrying the estimated 2020 NOL and 2018 NOL back to tax years that have a 35% tax rate. for additional information on the sale of subsidiary-related items. federal income tax expense (benefit) and have therefore been aggregated for purposes of this reconciliation in accordance with relevant disclosure guidance. which will allow an annual election to exclude from the U.S. tax return certain GILTI amounts when the taxes paid by a foreign affiliate exceed 18.9% (90% of U.S. statutory rate of 21%) of the GILTI amount for that foreign affiliate (the high-tax exception ). These regulations are effective for the 2021 taxable year with an election to apply to any taxable year beginning after 2017. In many of the countries in which we operate, including Japan, there are differences between local tax rules used to determine the tax base and the U.S. tax principles used to determine GILTI. Also, our Japan affiliates have a different tax year than the U.S. calendar tax year used to determine GILTI. Therefore, while many of the countries, including Japan, have a statutory tax rate above the 18.9% threshold, separate affiliates may not meet the 18.9% threshold each year and, as such, may not qualify for this exclusion. The Company plans to make the high-tax exception election for the 2020 tax year and recorded lower 2020 GILTI cost included in Total income tax expense for 2020. Additionally, the Company plans to make an election for 2018 by filing an amended tax return and recorded an estimated tax benefit of 4 million in Total income tax expense for 2020. tax exception election is made with respect to GILTI in any year, an election having the same effect must also be made with regard to income taxed under Subpart F of the Tax Code. Such an election under Subpart F of the Tax Code would apply to the Full Inclusion election made by the Company for its insurance operations in Brazil, thereby increasing the tax rate applied to our Brazil insurance operations. The Proposed Regulations will be effective for taxable years beginning after they are issued in final form. Low-Income Housing and Other Tax Credits. These amounts include incentives within the U.S. tax code for the development of Changes in Tax Law. The following is a list of notable changes in tax law that impacted the Company s effective tax rate for the Tax Act of 2017. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act of 2017 was enacted into U.S. law. During 2018, the Company completed 2018 Industry Issue Resolution (IIR). In August 2018, the IRS released a Directive to provide guidance on the tax reserving for The CARES Act. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act ) was enacted Sale of Subsidiary. This line item is primarily related to a lower tax basis than our GAAP basis for subsidiaries sold. See Note 1 Other. This line item represents insignificant reconciling items that are individually less than 5% of the computed expected GILTI High Tax Exclusion. On July 20, 2020, the U.S. Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service issued Final Regulations The Treasury Department and the IRS also issued Proposed Regulations on July 20, 2020 which would require that, if a high- Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 325 425 Table of Contents valuation allowance if necessary to reduce the deferred tax asset to an amount that is more likely than not expected to be realized. Considerable judgment is required in determining whether a valuation allowance is necessary, and if so, the amount of such valuation allowance. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, the Company considers many factors, including: (1) the nature of the deferred tax assets and liabilities (2) whether they are ordinary or capital (3) in which tax jurisdictions they were generated and the timing of their reversal (4) taxable income in prior carryback years as well as projected taxable earnings exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards (5) the length of time that carryovers can be utilized in the various taxing jurisdictions (6) any unique tax rules that would impact the utilization of the deferred tax assets and (7) any tax planning strategies that the Company would employ to avoid a tax benefit from expiring unused. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, will be realized. operations. Adjustments to the valuation allowance are made to reflect changes in management s assessment of the amount of the deferred tax asset that is realizable and the amount of deferred tax asset actually realized during the year. The valuation allowance includes amounts recorded in connection with deferred tax assets as follows: Deferred tax assets: Deferred tax liabilities: Net deferred tax liability (12,624) (12,074) Balance at January 1, 2018 0 196 18 214 Charged to costs and expenses 0 24 (6) 18 Other adjustments 0 (114) (1) (115) Balance at December 31, 2018 0 106 11 117 Charged to costs and expenses 3 34 (5) 32 Other adjustments 0 (13) 0 (13) Balance at December 31, 2019 3 127 6 136 Charged to costs and expenses 12 5 5 22 Other adjustments 0 (16) 1 (15) Balance at December 31, 2020 15 116 12 143 Insurance reserves 1,926 730 Policyholders dividends 1,901 1,365 Net operating and capital loss carryforwards 205 189 Employee benefits 929 973 Other 206 113 Deferred tax assets before valuation allowance 5,167 3,370 Valuation allowance (143) (136) Deferred tax assets after valuation allowance 5,024 3,234 Net unrealized investment gains 13,841 11,109 Deferred policy acquisition costs 3,518 3,799 Investments 19 138 Value of business acquired 270 262 Deferred tax liabilities 17,648 15,308 Schedule of Deferred Tax Assets and Deferred Tax Liabilities The application of U.S. GAAP requires the Company to evaluate the recoverability of deferred tax assets and establish a A valuation allowance has been recorded against deferred tax assets related to federal, state and local taxes and foreign Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Federal State (in millions) Operations Total As of December 31, 2020 2019 (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 326 425 Table of Contents carryforwards for tax purposes, as of the periods indicated: (1) Expires in 2025. Company s foreign affiliates. For certain foreign affiliates organized in withholding tax jurisdictions, the Company considers the unremitted foreign earnings of those affiliates to be indefinitely reinvested, and therefore does not provide for the withholding tax when calculating its current and deferred tax obligations. For certain other foreign affiliates organized in withholding tax jurisdictions, the Company does not consider unremitted earnings indefinitely reinvested, and therefore provides for foreign withholding tax when calculating its current and deferred tax obligations. The following table summarizes the Company s indefinite reinvestment assertions for jurisdictions in which the Company operates that impose a withholding tax on dividends or may be subject to other foreign country tax upon a remittance: insurance operations would be repatriated to the United States accordingly, these earnings were not considered indefinitely reinvested, and the Company recognized an income tax expense of 10 million in Income (loss) before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures during 2018. During the first and fourth quarters of 2018, the Company determined that a portion of the earnings of its Korean insurance operation would be repatriated to the United States accordingly, a portion of these earnings were not considered indefinitely reinvested, and the Company recognized an income tax expense of 14 million in Income (loss) before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures during 2018. The Company made no changes with respect to its repatriation assumptions in 2019. During the second and third quarters of 2020, respectively, the Company determined that the earnings of its Korean and Taiwan insurance operations would be repatriated to the United States accordingly, these earnings were not considered indefinitely reinvested, and the Company recognized an income tax expense of 132 million in Income (loss) before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures during 2020. During the second quarter of 2020, the Company changed the permanent investment assertion for Europrisa Management Company S.A (Luxembourg) due to a plan to liquidate the company, which gave rise to an immaterial amount of income tax expense during 2020. reinvestment of such earnings and for which, in 2020, 2019, and 2018, U.S. deferred taxes have not been provided, and for which foreign deferred withholding taxes have not been provided. The net tax liability that may arise if the 2020 earnings were remitted which includes any foreign exchange impacts, is immaterial. Federal net operating and capital loss carryforwards(1) 231 33 State net operating and capital loss carryforwards(2) 1,880 2,005 Foreign net operating and capital loss carryforwards(3) 136 203 Federal foreign tax credit carryforwards(4) 9 4 General business credits(5) 82 0 Unremitted earnings are indefinitely reinvested Unremitted earnings are not indefinitely reinvested Insurance operations in Chile and China and non-insurance operations in Korea and certain operations in Luxembourg (2) Expires between 2021 and 2040. (3) 2 million expires between 2021 and 2035 and 54 million has an unlimited carryforward. (4) Expires in 2030. These relate to foreign non-general basket tax credits. (5) Expires in 2040. The following table sets forth the amount and expiration dates of federal, state and foreign operating, capital loss and tax credit Consistent with the Tax Act of 2017, the Company provides applicable U.S. income tax for all unremitted earnings of the During the first and second quarters of 2018, respectively, the Company determined that the earnings of its Polish and Italian The following table sets forth the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, where the Company assumes indefinite Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Insurance operations in Argentina, India, Indonesia, Ghana and Taiwan, and non-insurance operations in China, India, Italy and Taiwan As of December 31, 2020 2019 (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 327 425 Table of Contents (1) Consistent with the Tax Act of 2017, the Company provides U.S. income tax for all unremitted earnings of the Company s foreign affiliates as of December 31, 2017. from domestic operations of (3,226) million, 1,985 million and 1,447 million, and income (loss) from foreign operations of 2,903 million, 3,101 million and 3,387 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Tax Audit and Unrecognized Tax Benefits still subject to review by the IRS or other taxing authorities. The completion of review or the expiration of the Federal statute of limitations for a given audit period could result in an adjustment to the liability for income taxes. related to tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired. recognized in the consolidated financial statements for tax-related interest and penalties for the years ended December 31 are as follows: (in millions) Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries (assuming indefinite reinvestment for U.S. tax purposes)(1) N A N A N A Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries (assuming indefinite reinvestment only for Withholding or other non-U.S. Taxes) 176 2,764 2,475 (in millions) Balance at January 1, 18 20 45 Increases in unrecognized tax benefits prior years 0 0 20 (Decreases) in unrecognized tax benefits prior years (1) (2) 0 Increases in unrecognized tax benefits current year 0 0 0 (Decreases) in unrecognized tax benefits current year 0 0 0 Settlements with taxing authorities 0 0 (45) Balance at December 31, 17 18 20 Unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective rate 0 0 0 (in millions) Interest and penalties recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations 1 1 1 (in millions) Interest and penalties recognized in liabilities in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 3 2 The Company s Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures includes income (loss) The Company s liability for income taxes includes the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and interest that relate to tax years The following table reconciles the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits at the beginning and end of the periods indicated: The Company does not anticipate any significant changes within the next twelve months to its total unrecognized tax benefits The Company classifies all interest and penalties related to tax uncertainties as income tax expense (benefit). The amounts Listed below are the tax years that remain subject to examination, by major tax jurisdiction, as of December 31, 2020: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 At December 31, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 328 425 Table of Contents team to review completed transactions as they occur in order to reach agreement with the Company on how they should be reported in the relevant tax returns. If disagreements arise, accelerated resolutions programs are available to resolve the disagreements in a timely manner. affiliates in Japan are subject to audits by the local taxing authority. The general statute of limitations is five years from when the return is filed. The Japanese National Tax Service conducted tax audits of some non-insurance companies during the reporting period, which had no material impact on the Company s 2020, 2019 or 2018 results. general statute of limitations is five years from when the return is filed. During 2020, the Korean tax authority substantially completed a routine tax audit of Prudential of Korea for 2017, 2016, and 2015 tax years. These activities are expected to have no material impact on the Company s 2020, 2019 or 2018 results. 17. SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM DEBT Short-term Debt Major Tax Jurisdiction Open Tax Years United States 2014-2020 Japan Fiscal years ended March 31, 2016-2020 Korea 2015-2020 The Company participates in the IRS s Compliance Assurance Program. Under this program, the IRS assigns an examination Some of the Company s affiliates in Japan file a consolidated tax return, while others file separate tax returns. The Company s The Company s affiliates in South Korea file separate tax returns and are subject to audits by the local taxing authority. The The table below presents the Company s short-term debt at December 31, for the years indicated as follows: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 329 425 Table of Contents (1) The surplus notes have corresponding assets where rights to set-off exist, thereby reducing the amount of surplus notes. commercial paper borrowings have generally been used to fund the working capital needs of Prudential Financial s subsidiaries and provide short-term liquidity at Prudential Financial. an authorized capacity of 7.0 billion. Prudential Funding commercial paper borrowings generally have served as an additional source of financing to meet the working capital needs of PICA and its subsidiaries. Prudential Funding also lends to other subsidiaries of Prudential Financial up to limits agreed with the NJDOBI. Prudential Funding maintains a support agreement with PICA whereby PICA has agreed to maintain Prudential Funding s tangible net worth at a positive level. Additionally, Prudential Financial has issued a subordinated guarantee covering Prudential Funding s 7.0 billion commercial paper program. to obtain collateralized loans and to issue collateralized funding agreements. Under applicable law, the funding agreements issued to the FHLBNY have priority claim status above debt holders of PICA. FHLBNY borrowings and funding agreements are collateralized by qualifying mortgage-related assets or U.S. Treasury securities, the fair value of which must be maintained at certain specified levels relative to outstanding borrowings. FHLBNY membership requires PICA to own member stock and borrowings require the purchase of activity-based stock in an amount equal to 4.5% of outstanding borrowings. Under FHLBNY guidelines, if any of PICA s financial strength ratings decline below A- A3 A- Negative by S&P Moody s Fitch, respectively, and the FHLBNY does not receive written assurances from the NJDOBI regarding PICA s solvency, new borrowings from the FHLBNY would be limited to a term of 90 days or less. Currently there are no restrictions on the term of borrowings from the FHLBNY. All FHLBNY stock purchased by PICA is classified as restricted general account investments within Other invested assets, and the carrying value of these investments was 147.4 million and 30.2 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. ( in millions) Commercial paper: Subtotal commercial paper 380 549 Current portion of long-term debt: Subtotal Current portion of long-term debt 1,027 1,371 Other(2) 18 13 Subtotal 1,425 1,933 Supplemental short-term debt information: (2) Includes 18 million drawn on a revolving line of credit held by a subsidiary at December 31, 2020. (3) Includes Prudential Financial debt of 424 million and 1,204 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Prudential Financial 25 25 Prudential Funding, LLC 355 524 Portion of commercial paper borrowings due overnight 75 224 Daily average commercial paper outstanding for the quarter ended 1,602 1,702 Weighted average maturity of outstanding commercial paper, in days 18 6 Weighted average interest rate on outstanding commercial paper 0.11 % 1.61 % At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company was in compliance with all covenants related to the above debt. Commercial Paper Prudential Financial has a commercial paper program with an authorized capacity of 3.0 billion. Prudential Financial s Prudential Funding, LLC ( Prudential Funding ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of PICA, has a commercial paper program, with Federal Home Loan Bank of New York PICA is a member of the FHLBNY. Membership allows PICA access to the FHLBNY s financial services, including the ability Senior Notes 399 1,179 Mortgage Debt 128 192 Surplus Notes subject to set-off arrangements (1) 500 0 Less: Assets under set-off arrangements (1) 500 0 Total short-term debt(3) 925 1,933 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 330 425 Table of Contents admitted assets, excluding separate account assets. Based on PICA s statutory net admitted assets as of December 31, 2019, the 5% limitation equates to a maximum amount of eligible assets of 7.3 billion and an estimated maximum borrowing capacity (after taking into account required collateralization levels) of approximately 6.6 billion. Nevertheless, FHLBNY borrowings are subject to the FHLBNY s discretion and to the availability of qualifying assets at PICA. 2020, 2.5 billion of funding agreements remain outstanding under this facility with maturities ranging from January 2021 to February 2027 and rates from 0.620% to 1.925%. These funding agreements are reflected as Policyholders account balances on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and as such are not included in the foregoing table. ( FHLBB ). Membership allows PRIAC access to collateralized advances which will be classified in Short-term debt or Long- term debt, depending on the maturity date of the obligation. PRIAC s membership in FHLBB requires the ownership of member stock and borrowings from FHLBB require the purchase of activity-based stock in an amount between 3.0% and 4.5% of outstanding borrowings, depending on the maturity date of the obligation. All FHLBB stock purchased by PRIAC is classified as restricted general account investments within Other invested assets, and the carrying value of these investments was 6 million and 6 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, PRIAC had no advances outstanding under the FHLBB facility. insurers may pledge to secure debt obligations is limited to the lesser of 5% of prior-year statutory admitted assets or 25% of prior- year statutory surplus, resulting in a maximum borrowing capacity for PRIAC under the FHLBB facility of approximately 265 million as of December 31, 2020. borrowings are not contingent on the borrowers credit ratings nor subject to material adverse change clauses. Borrowings under this facility are conditioned on the continued satisfaction of customary conditions, including Prudential Financial s maintenance of consolidated net worth of at least 20.958 billion, which is calculated as U.S. GAAP equity, excluding AOCI, equity of noncontrolling interests and equity attributable to the Closed Block. The Company expects that it may borrow under the facility from time to time to fund its working capital needs. In addition, amounts under this credit facility may be drawn in the form of standby letters of credit that can be used to meet the Company s operating needs. facility also contains customary representations and warranties, covenants, and events of default and borrowings are not contingent on the borrower s credit ratings nor subject to material adverse change clauses. Company was in compliance with the covenants under each of these credit facilities. December 31, 2020, of which 175 million was for the sole use of certain real estate separate accounts. The separate account facilities include loan-to-value ratio requirements and other financial covenants, and recourse on obligations under these facilities is limited to the assets of the applicable separate account. At December 31, 2020, 31 million of these credit facilities were used. The Company also has access to uncommitted lines of credit from financial institutions. (in millions) Prudential Financial and Prudential Funding 5 years Jul 2022 4,000 0 Prudential Holdings of Japan, Inc. 5 years Sep 2024 100,000 0 NJDOBI permits PICA to pledge collateral to the FHLBNY in an amount of up to 5% of its prior year-end statutory net In the first quarter of 2020, PICA issued 3.6 billion in funding agreements under the FHLBNY facility. As of December 31, Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company ( PRIAC ) is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston Under Connecticut state insurance law, without the prior consent of the Connecticut Insurance Department, the amount of assets Credit Facilities As of December 31, 2020, the Company maintained syndicated, unsecured committed credit facilities as described below. The 4.0 billion five-year credit facility contains customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default and The 100 billion five-year facility was entered into by Prudential Holdings of Japan, Inc. ( PHJ ) in September 2019. This Borrowings under each of these credit facilities may be used for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2020, the In addition to the above credit facilities, the Company had access to 219 million of certain other lines of credit at Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Expiration Date Capacity Outstanding 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 331 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 332 425 Table of Contents completion of the sale of 1.5 billion of trust securities by that Delaware trust in a Rule 144A private placement. The trust invested the proceeds from the sale of the trust securities in a portfolio of principal and interest strips of U.S. Treasury securities. The put option agreement provides Prudential Financial the right to sell to the trust at any time up to 1.5 billion of 4.419% senior notes due November 2023 and receive in exchange a corresponding amount of U.S. Treasury securities held by the trust. In return, the Company agreed to pay a semi-annual put premium to the trust at a rate of 1.777% per annum applied to the unexercised portion of the put option. The put option agreement with the trust provides Prudential Financial with a source of liquid assets. the trust, such as paying the put option premium or reimbursing the trust for its expenses, if the Company s failure to pay is not cured within 30 days, and upon an event involving its bankruptcy. The Company is also required to exercise the put option if its consolidated stockholders equity, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP but excluding AOCI, falls below 7.0 billion, subject to adjustment in certain cases. The Company has a one-time right to unwind a prior voluntary exercise of the put option by repurchasing all of the senior notes then held by the trust in exchange for a corresponding amount of U.S. Treasury securities. Finally, Prudential Financial may redeem all but not less than all outstanding senior notes prior to their maturity at a redemption price equal to the greater of par or a make-whole price, following a voluntary exercise in full of the put option. sale of 1.5 billion of trust securities by that Delaware trust in a Rule 144A private placement. The trust invested the proceeds from the sale of the trust securities in a portfolio of principal and or interest strips of U.S. Treasury securities. The facility agreement provides Prudential Financial the right to issue and sell to the trust from time to time up to 1.5 billion of 2.850% senior notes due May 15, 2030 and receive in exchange a corresponding amount of the U.S. Treasury securities held by the trust. In return, the Company agreed to pay a semi-annual facility fee to the trust at a rate of 2.175% per annum applied to the maximum amount of senior notes that the Company could issue and sell to the trust. Similar to the Company s put option agreement, the facility agreement with the trust provides Prudential Financial with a source of liquid assets. certain payments to the trust, such as paying the facility fee or reimbursing the trust for its expenses, if the Company s failure to pay is not cured within 30 days, and upon an event involving its bankruptcy. The Company is also required to exercise this issuance right if its consolidated stockholders equity, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP but excluding AOCI, falls below 9.0 billion, subject to adjustment in certain cases. Prior to any involuntary exercise of the issuance right, the Company has the right to repurchase any of its senior notes then held by the trust in exchange for a corresponding amount of U.S. Treasury securities. Finally, Prudential Financial may redeem any outstanding senior notes, in whole or in part, prior to February 15, 2030, at a redemption price equal to the greater of par or a make-whole price, or thereafter, at par. Agreements for Senior Notes Issuance In November 2013, Prudential Financial entered into a ten-year put option agreement with a Delaware trust upon the The put option described above will be exercised automatically in full upon the Company s failure to make certain payments to In May 2020, Prudential Financial entered into a ten-year facility agreement with a Delaware trust upon the completion of the The right to issue senior notes described above will be exercised automatically in full upon the Company s failure to make Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 333 425 Table of Contents Long-term Debt (1) Ranges of interest rates are for the year ended December 31, 2020. Program which have authorized issuance capacities of 20.0 billion and 5.0 billion, respectively. ( in millions) Fixed-rate notes: Floating-rate notes: Junior subordinated notes(4) 2042-2060 1.55%-5.88% 7,615 7,575 Subtotal 30,182 28,395 Total long-term debt(6) 19,718 18,646 Calendar Year 2022 2023 2024 2025 (in millions) Long-term debt 136 572 724 348 17,938 19,718 (2) Includes 0 and 43 million of debt denominated in foreign currency at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (3) Includes 29 million and 53 million of debt denominated in foreign currency at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (4) Includes Prudential Financial debt of 7,554 million and subsidiary debt of 60 million denominated in foreign currency at December 31, 2020. (5) Assets under set-off arrangements represent a reduction in the amount of surplus notes included in long-term debt, resulting from an arrangement where valid rights of set-off exist and it is the intent of both parties to settle on a net basis under legally enforceable arrangements. These assets include available-for-sale securities that are reported at fair value. (6) Includes Prudential Financial debt of 18,561 million and 17,430 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Senior Notes Surplus notes 2025 8.3% 343 342 Surplus notes subject to set-off arrangements 2022-2038 2.23%-5.26% 8,134 7,484 Senior notes 2023-2051 1.5%-6.75% 11,179 10,084 Mortgage debt(2) 2027 3.85% 24 104 Line of Credit 2023 1.41%-3.10% 300 300 Surplus notes subject to set-off arrangements 2024-2037 1.61%-3.5% 2,330 2,265 Mortgage debt(3) 2022-2024 1.43%-3.88% 257 241 Less: assets under set-off arrangements(5) 10,464 9,749 The table below presents the Company s long-term debt at December 31, for the years indicated as follows: At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants related to the borrowings in the table The following table presents the contractual maturities of the Company s long-term debt as of December 31, 2020: Under its shelf registration statement the Company maintains a Medium-Term Notes Program and an InterNotes Retail Notes Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Dates Rate(1) thereafter Total December 31, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 334 425 Table of Contents indicated as follows: (1) Includes 400 million of notes from current portion of long-term debt. increase was due to the issuance of 0.5 billion of medium-term notes with an interest rate of 1.5% maturing in March 2026, 0.5 billion of notes with an interest rate of 2.1% maturing in 2030, and 0.5 billion of notes with an interest rate of 3.0% maturing in 2040, offset by 1.2 billion of maturities in June and November 2020. As of December 31, 2020, 0.4 billion of the outstanding balance of this program is included in current portion of long-term debt. Notes Programs, including the effect of interest rate hedging activity, was 4.45% and 4.85% for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, excluding the effect of debt issued to consolidated subsidiaries. prepayment activity, offset by new borrowings in 2020 of 71 million and foreign exchange fluctuations of 2 million. As of December 31, 2020, the Company s subsidiaries had long-term mortgage debt of 409 million that has recourse only to real estate property held for investment by those subsidiaries, of which 128 million is included in current portion of long-term debt. medium-term notes and commercial paper secured by funding agreements issued to the trusts by PICA. These obligations are included in Policyholders account balances and not included in the foregoing table. See Note 12 for further discussion of these obligations. other PICA borrowings and policyholder obligations, and the payment of interest and principal may only be made with the prior approval of the NJDOBI. The NJDOBI could prohibit the payment of the interest and principal on the surplus notes if certain statutory capital requirements are not met. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company met these statutory capital requirements. Medium-Term Notes(1) 2021-2051 9,847 9,508 Senior Notes 2047-2049 1,462 1,455 InterNotes Retail Notes 2029-2045 270 302 Mortgage Debt(2) 2021-2027 409 537 Total 11,988 11,802 (2) Includes 128 million of notes from current portion of long-term debt. The table below presents the Company s senior notes and mortgage debt balances as of December 31, 2020 for the years Medium-Term Notes Program. The outstanding balance of this program increased by 0.3 billion from December 31, 2019. The The weighted average interest rate on outstanding senior notes issued under the Medium-Term Notes and InterNotes Retail Mortgage Debt. Mortgage debt decreased by 128 million from December 31, 2019, primarily due to 200 million of Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program ( FANIP ). The Company maintains a FANIP in which statutory trusts issue Surplus Notes As of December 31, 2020, PICA had 343 million of fixed-rate surplus notes outstanding. These notes are subordinated to Surplus Notes with Set-Off Arrangements Facility Name Maturity Date Range 2020 Amount Outstanding 2019 Amount Outstanding Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. ( in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 335 425 Table of Contents (1) Prudential has agreed to reimburse one of the external counterparties for any payment under the credit linked notes funded by it in an amount of up to 0.5 billion. providing for the issuance of surplus notes by the captive to finance reserves required under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX. Under these facilities, the captives receive in exchange for the surplus notes one or more credit-linked notes issued by special- purpose affiliates in aggregate principal amounts equal to the surplus notes issued. The captives hold the credit-linked notes as assets supporting the non-economic portion of the statutory reserves required to be held by the Company s domestic insurance subsidiaries under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX in connection with the reinsurance of term life or universal life insurance policies through the captive. The non-economic portion of the statutory reserve equals the difference between the statutory reserve required under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX and the amount the Company considers necessary to maintain solvency for moderately adverse experience. The credit-linked notes are redeemable for cash upon the occurrence of a liquidity stress event affecting the captives and external counterparties have agreed to fund these payments in return for a fee. Under certain of these different transactions, Prudential Financial has agreed to reimburse the captive for investment losses in excess of specified amounts. on the related credit-linked notes are settled on a net basis, and the surplus notes are reflected in the Company s total consolidated borrowings on a net basis. The surplus notes for the captive reinsurance subsidiaries described above are subordinated to policyholder obligations, and for certain applicable surplus notes, the repayment of principal may only be made with prior approval of the Arizona Department of Insurance and Financial Institutions, the domiciliary insurance regulator of the captives. The payment of interest on the surplus notes has been approved by the Arizona Department of Insurance and Financial Institutions, subject to its ability to withdraw that approval. Insurance Company of New Jersey ( PLIC ) has entered into with certain external counterparties and a special-purpose affiliate, pursuant to which PLIC may, at its option, issue and sell to the affiliate up to 4.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of surplus notes, in return for an equal principal amount of credit-linked notes. The credit-linked notes are redeemable for cash upon the occurrence of a liquidity stress event affecting PLIC, and external counterparties have agreed to fund these payments in return for a fee. Upon issuance, PLIC would hold any credit-linked notes as assets to support future statutory surplus needs within PLIC. Regulation XXX 2011-2014(1)(2) 2021-2024 1,750 1,750 1,750 2014-2017 2024-2037 2,400 2,330 2,265 2018 2038 1,600 1,070 920 Guideline AXXX 2013(3) 2033 3,500 3,248 3,248 2017 2037 2,000 1,466 1,466 2020 2032 1,200 700 0 Other Notes 2015-2019 2029 4,000 400 100 Total 16,450 10,964 9,749 (2) Includes 0.5 billion of notes from current portion of long-term debt. (3) The current financing capacity available under the facility is 3.5 billion but can be increased to a maximum potential size of 4.5 billion. Agreement Start Date Maturity Years Maximum Borrowing Capacity Surplus Notes Supporting Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX Reserves For each of the above transactions, because valid rights of set-off exist, interest and principal payments on the surplus notes and Other Surplus Notes The surplus note facility listed under Other Notes in the table above reflects a financing facility that Prudential Legacy As shown in the table above, the Company s captive reinsurance subsidiaries maintain facilities with external counterparties Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. ( in millions) 2020 Amount Outstanding 2019 Amount Outstanding 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 336 425 Table of Contents treatment from the rating agencies. These notes outstanding, along with their key terms, are as follows: resulting in a default, during which time interest will be compounded. On or after the optional redemption dates, Prudential Financial may redeem the notes at par plus accrued and unpaid interest. Prior to those optional redemption dates, redemptions generally are subject to a make-whole price however, the Company may redeem the notes prior to these dates at par upon the occurrence of certain events, such as a future change in the regulatory capital treatment of the notes with respect to the Company. and, in return, obtained 500 million of asset-backed notes issued by a designated series of a Delaware master trust. The asset-backed notes mature from 2021 through 2027 however, the maturity date of a portion of the notes may be extended by the Company through 2028, subject to conditions. of a third-party financial institution and a portfolio of specified assets that have an aggregate value at least equal to the principal amount of the applicable asset-backed note. The principal amount of each asset-backed note is payable to PRIAC in cash at any time upon demand by PRIAC or, if not repaid earlier, at maturity. Each of the limited recourse notes obligates Prudential Financial to reimburse the applicable third-party financial institution for any principal payments received on the corresponding asset-backed note, but there is no obligation to reimburse any portion of a principal payment that is needed by PRIAC to pay then current claims to its policyholders. Each limited recourse note bears interest at a rate equal to the rate on the corresponding asset-backed note, plus an amount representing fees payable to the applicable third-party financial institution. As of December 31, 2020, no principal payments have been received or are currently due on the asset-backed notes and, as a result, there was no payment obligation under the limited recourse notes. Accordingly, the notes are not reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2020. instruments, primarily interest rate swaps, in conjunction with some of its debt issues. The impact of these derivative instruments is not reflected in the rates presented in the tables above. For those derivative instruments that qualify for hedge accounting treatment, interest expense was 2 million, less than 1 million, and 1 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. See Note 5 for additional information on the Company s use of derivative instruments. December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Issue Date Aug-12 1,000 5.88 % Institutional 9 15 2022 LIBOR 4.18% 9 15 2042 Nov-12 1,500 5.63 % Institutional 6 15 2023 LIBOR 3.92% 6 15 2043 Mar-13 500 5.20 % Institutional 3 15 2024 LIBOR 3.04% 3 15 2044 May-15 1,000 5.38 % Institutional 5 15 2025 LIBOR 3.03% 3 15 2045 Sep-17 750 4.50 % Institutional 9 15 2027 LIBOR 2.38% 9 15 2047 Aug-18 565 5.63 % Retail 8 15 2023 5.63% 8 13 2058 Sep-18 1,000 5.70 % Institutional 9 15 2028 LIBOR 2.67% 9 15 2048 Aug-20 500 4.13 % Retail 9 1 2025 4.13% 9 1 2060 Aug-20 800 3.70 % Institutional 10 1 2030 US Treasury 3.04% 10 1 2050 Junior Subordinated Notes Prudential Financial s junior subordinated notes outstanding are considered hybrid securities that receive enhanced equity The Company has the right to defer interest payments on these notes for specified periods, typically 5 to 10 years without Limited Recourse Notes In 2014, the Company entered into financing transactions pursuant to which it issued 500 million of limited recourse notes The master trust s payment obligations under each of the asset-backed notes are secured by corresponding payment obligations Interest Expense In order to modify exposure to interest rate and currency exchange rate movements, the Company utilizes derivative Interest expense for short-term and long-term debt was 1,575 million, 1,563 million and 1,423 million for the years ended in millions) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Redemption Subsequent to Optional Redemption Date Interest Rate Maturity Date 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 337 425 Table of Contents 18. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS Pension and Other Postretirement Plans substantially all of its employees. For some employees, benefits are based on final average earnings and length of service (the traditional formula ), while benefits for other employees are based on an account balance that takes into consideration age, length of service and earnings during their career (the cash balance formula ). At December 31, 2020, approximately 77% of the Company s Pension Benefits relate to its domestic qualified pension plan, which initially determined benefits based on the traditional formula. Effective January 1, 2001, active domestic employees covered under this plan were given the option to convert from the traditional formula to the cash balance formula, and all new domestic employees began accruing benefits under the cash balance formula. As of December 31, 2020, approximately 68% and 32% of the benefit obligation under this plan relates to participants under the traditional formula and cash balance formula, respectively. At December 31, 2020, the vast majority of active employees under this plan are accruing benefits under the cash balance formula. dependents ( Other Postretirement Benefits ). The health care plan is contributory the life insurance plan is non-contributory. Substantially all of the Company s U.S. employees may become eligible to receive other postretirement benefits if they retire after age 55 with at least 10 years of service or under certain circumstances after age 50 with at least 20 years of continuous service. Company s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The status of these plans as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 is summarized below: The Company has funded and non-funded non-contributory defined benefit pension plans ( Pension Benefits ), which cover The Company provides certain health care and life insurance benefits for its retired employees, their beneficiaries and covered Prepaid benefits costs and accrued benefit liabilities are included in Other assets and Other liabilities, respectively, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 338 425 Table of Contents (1) For 2020 and 2019, actuarial losses for pension and other postretirement benefits were primarily driven by a decrease in the discount rate. trust, for the purpose of holding assets of the Company to be used to satisfy its obligations with respect to certain non-qualified retirement plans ( 1,360 million and 1,301 million benefit obligation at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively). Assets held in the rabbi trust are available to the general creditors of the Company in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy. The Company may from time to time in its discretion make contributions to the trust to fund accrued benefits payable to participants in one or more of the plans, and, in the case of a change in control of the Company, as defined in the trust agreement, the Company will be required to make contributions to the trust to fund the accrued benefits, vested and unvested, payable on a pre-tax basis to participants in the plans. The Company did not make any discretionary payments to the trust in 2020 and 2019. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the assets in the trust had a carrying value of 1,044 million and 986 million, respectively. Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits 2020 2019 2020 2019 (in millions) Change in benefit obligation Benefit obligation at the beginning of period (14,637) (13,185) (1,993) (1,876) Service cost (321) (291) (24) (22) Interest cost (429) (489) (64) (78) Plan participants contributions 0 0 (22) (21) Medicare Part D subsidy receipts 0 0 (7) (7) Amendments 0 0 0 (27) Curtailments 16 0 0 0 Actuarial gains (losses), net(1) (978) (1,499) (101) (124) Settlements 43 45 0 0 Special termination benefits (7) (26) 0 (1) Benefits paid 878 831 171 165 Acquisition Divestiture 46 0 0 0 Foreign currency changes and other (94) (23) 0 (2) Benefit obligation at end of period (15,483) (14,637) (2,040) (1,993) Change in plan assets Plan assets at beginning of period 13,906 12,807 1,557 1,432 Actual return on plan assets 1,740 1,681 171 264 Employer contributions 200 280 10 5 Plan participants contributions 0 0 22 21 Disbursement for settlements (43) (45) 0 0 Benefits paid (878) (831) (171) (165) Acquisition Divestiture (51) 0 0 0 Foreign currency changes and other 23 14 0 0 Plan assets at end of period 14,897 13,906 1,589 1,557 Funded status at end of period (586) (731) (451) (436) Amounts recognized in the Statements of Financial Position Prepaid benefit cost 2,426 2,204 0 0 Accrued benefit liability (3,012) (2,935) (451) (436) Net amount recognized (586) (731) (451) (436) Items recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) not yet recognized as a component of net periodic (benefit) cost: Prior service cost (10) (12) 59 65 Net actuarial loss 3,972 4,191 354 341 Net amount not recognized 3,962 4,179 413 406 Accumulated benefit obligation (14,690) (13,934) (2,040) (1,993) In addition to the plan assets above, the Company in 2007 established an irrevocable trust, commonly referred to as a rabbi Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 339 425 Table of Contents obligations with respect to certain other non-qualified retirement plans ( 77 million and 76 million benefit obligation at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively), as well as certain cash-based deferred compensation arrangements. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the assets in the trust had a carrying value of 111 million and 106 million, respectively. respectively. Foreign pension plans comprised 4% and 5% of the ending fair value of plan assets for both 2020 and 2019, respectively. There are no material foreign postretirement plans. Information for pension plans with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost certain changes in fair value of plan assets over a period of five years. Changes in the fair value of U.S. equities, international equities, real estate and other assets are recognized over a five year period. However, changes in the fair value for fixed maturity assets (including short-term investments) are recognized immediately for the purposes of market related value. Operations for the years ended December 31, includes the following components: (1) For 2020, 2019 and 2018, certain employees were provided special termination benefits under non-qualified plans in the form of unreduced early retirement benefits as a result of their involuntary termination. (in millions) Projected benefit obligation 3,012 2,997 Fair value of plan assets 0 62 (in millions) Accumulated benefit obligation 2,834 2,760 Fair value of plan assets 0 7 Pension Benefits 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Service cost 321 291 314 24 22 23 Interest cost 429 489 448 64 78 70 Expected return on plan assets (804) (816) (817) (100) (95) (108) Amortization of prior service cost (4) (4) (4) 6 4 1 Amortization of actuarial (gain) loss, net 262 217 213 16 24 17 Settlements 9 59 8 0 0 0 Special termination benefits(1)(2)(3) 7 26 1 0 1 0 Net periodic (benefit) cost 220 262 163 10 34 3 (2) For 2020, certain employees were provided special termination benefits under non-qualified plans in the form of unreduced early retirement benefits as a result of their participation in the Voluntary Separation Program that was offered to eligible U.S.-based employees in 2019. (3) For 2019, certain employees were provided special termination benefits in the qualified and non-qualified plans in the form of retirement eligibility bridging as a result of their participation in the Voluntary Separation Program that was offered to eligible U.S.-based employees. The Company also maintains a separate rabbi trust for the purpose of holding assets of the Company to be used to satisfy its Pension benefits for foreign plans comprised 13% and 14% of the ending benefit obligation for both 2020 and 2019, The Company uses market related value to determine components of net periodic (benefit) cost. Market related value recognizes Net periodic (benefit) cost included in General and administrative expenses in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Other Postretirement 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 340 425 Table of Contents Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) growth rates. Changes at year-end in these actuarial assumptions, along with experience changes based on updated participant census data are deferred in AOCI. Plan assets generate actuarial gains and losses when actual returns on plan assets differ from expected returns on plan assets, and these differences are also deferred in AOCI. The cumulative deferred gain (loss) within AOCI is amortized into earnings if it exceeds 10% of the greater of the benefit obligation or plan assets at the beginning of the year, and the amortization period is based upon the actuarially calculated expected future years of service for a given plan. (benefit) cost, and the related changes in these items during the period that are recognized in Other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows: (1) For 2018, deferred losses for pension and other postretirement benefits were driven by unfavorable asset performance partially offset by an increase in discount rate. Pension Benefits (in millions) Balance, December 31, 2017 (22) 3,611 10 344 Balance, December 31, 2018 (15) 3,829 41 408 Balance, December 31, 2019 (12) 4,191 65 341 Balance, December 31, 2020 (10) 3,972 59 354 (2) For 2019, deferred losses for pension were driven by a decrease in discount rate partially offset by favorable asset performance. Deferred gains for other postretirement benefits were driven by favorable asset performance partially offset by a decrease in discount rate. (3) For 2020, deferred losses for pension and other postretirement benefits were driven by a decrease in discount rate partially offset by favorable asset performance. Amortization for the period 4 (213) (1) (17) Deferrals for the period(1) 3 430 32 82 Impact of foreign currency changes and other 0 1 0 (1) Amortization for the period 4 (217) (4) (24) Deferrals for the period(2) 0 634 27 (45) Impact of foreign currency changes and other (1) (55) 1 2 Amortization for the period 4 (262) (6) (16) Deferrals for the period(3) 0 42 0 30 Impact of foreign currency changes and other (2) 1 0 (1) The benefit obligation is based upon actuarial assumptions such as discount, termination, retirement, mortality and salary The amounts recorded in AOCI as of the end of the period, which have not yet been recognized as a component of net periodic Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. (Gain) Loss Actuarial Other Postretirement (Gain) Loss Actuarial 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 341 425 Table of Contents of net periodic (benefit) cost (beginning of period) are presented in the table below: 2019 is based upon the value of a portfolio of Aa-rated investments whose cash flows would be available to pay the benefit obligation s cash flows when due. The December 31, 2020 portfolio is selected from a compilation of approximately 440 Aa-rated bonds across the full range of maturities. Since yields can vary widely at each maturity point, the Company generally avoids using the highest and lowest yielding bonds at the maturity points, so as to avoid relying on bonds that might be mispriced or misrated. This refinement process generally results in having a distribution from the 10th to 90th percentile. The Aa-rated portfolio is then selected and, accordingly, its value is a measure of the benefit obligation. A single equivalent discount rate is calculated to equate the value of the Aa-rated portfolio to the cash flows for the benefit obligation. The result is rounded to the nearest 5 basis points and the benefit obligation is recalculated using the rounded discount rate. approach that considered the allocation of plan assets as of December 31, 2019. Expected returns are estimated by asset class as noted in the discussion of investment policies and strategies below. Expected returns on asset classes are developed using a building-block approach that is forward looking and are not strictly based upon historical returns. The building blocks for equity returns include inflation, real return, a term premium, an equity risk premium, capital appreciation, expenses, the effect of active management and the effect of rebalancing. The building blocks for fixed maturity returns include inflation, real return, a term premium, credit spread, capital appreciation, effect of active management, expenses and the effect of rebalancing. expected rate of return for 2021 is 5.75% and 6.75% for pension and postretirement, respectively. Plan Assets stocks, bonds and other investments. The cash requirements of the pension obligation, which include a traditional formula principally representing payments to annuitants and a cash balance formula that allows lump sum payments and annuity payments, are designed to be met by the bonds and short-term investments in the portfolio. portfolio of stocks, bonds, and other investments, while meeting the cash requirements for the postretirement obligation that includes a medical benefit including prescription drugs, a dental benefit and a life benefit. Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 Weighted average assumptions Discount rate (beginning of period) 3.30 % 4.30 % 3.65 % 3.25 % 4.30 % 3.60 % Discount rate (end of period) 2.55 % 3.30 % 4.30 % 2.40 % 3.25 % 4.30 % Rate of increase in compensation levels (beginning of period) 4.50 % 4.50 % 4.50 % N A N A N A Rate of increase in compensation levels (end of period) 4.50 % 4.50 % 4.50 % N A N A N A Expected return on plan assets (beginning of period) 6.00 % 6.50 % 6.25 % 6.75 % 7.00 % 7.00 % Interest crediting rate (beginning of period) 4.30 % 4.30 % 4.30 % N A N A N A Interest crediting rate (end of period) 4.25 % 4.30 % 4.30 % N A N A N A Health care cost trend rates (beginning of period) N A N A N A 6.25 % 6.00 % 6.20 % Health care cost trend rates (end of period) N A N A N A 6.25 % 6.25 % 6.00 % For 2020, 2019 and 2018, the ultimate health care cost trend rate after gradual decrease until: 2028, 2024, 2024, (beginning of period) N A N A N A 5.00 % 5.00 % 5.00 % For 2020, 2019 and 2018, the ultimate health care cost trend rate after gradual decrease until: 2028, 2028, 2024 (end of period) N A N A N A 4.50 % 5.00 % 5.00 % The Company s assumptions related to the calculation of the domestic benefit obligation (end of period) and the determination The domestic discount rate used to value the pension and postretirement obligations at December 31, 2020 and December 31, The pension and postretirement expected long-term rates of return on plan assets for 2020 were determined based upon an The Company applied the same approach to the determination of the expected rate of return on plan assets in 2021. The The assumptions for foreign pension plans are based on local markets. There are no material foreign postretirement plans. The investment goal of the domestic pension plan assets is to generate an above benchmark return on a diversified portfolio of The investment goal of the domestic postretirement plan assets is to generate an above benchmark return on a diversified Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 342 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 343 425 Table of Contents liquidity and tax efficiency. The pension and postretirement plans do not invest in leveraged derivatives. Derivatives such as futures contracts are used to reduce transaction costs and change asset concentration, while interest rate swaps and futures are used to adjust duration. reflecting a percentage of total assets by asset class, which are reviewed on an annual basis. Asset allocation targets as of December 31, 2020 are as follows: of the asset categories under the investment guidelines. However, at any point in time, some of the assets in a fund may be of a different nature than the specified asset category. either in common collective trusts or single client trusts. Pooled separate accounts and common collective trusts hold assets for multiple investors. Each investor owns a unit of account. The asset allocation targets above include the underlying asset mix in the Pooled Separate Accounts and Common Collective Trusts. Single client separate accounts or trusts hold assets for only one investor, the domestic qualified pension plan, and each security in the fund is treated as individually owned. the pension or postretirement plans. fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value, as described in Note 6. Insurance company pooled separate accounts are invested via group annuity contracts issued by PICA. Assets are represented by a unit of account. The redemption value of those units is based on a per unit value whose value is the result of the accumulated values of underlying investments. The unit of account value is used as a practical expedient to estimate fair value. Note 6 for a discussion of the valuation methodologies for fixed maturity securities. the registered investment company on the reporting date. investment of securities lending collateral. Pension Postretirement Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum Asset Category U.S. Equities 2 % 8 % 31 % 70 % International Equities 2 % 9 % 2 % 22 % Fixed Maturities 54 % 67 % 10 % 45 % Short-term Investments 0 % 12 % 0 % 31 % Real Estate 2 % 16 % 0 % 0 % Other 4 % 27 % 0 % 0 % The pension and postretirement plans risk management practices include guidelines for asset concentration, credit rating, The plan fiduciaries for the Company s pension and postretirement plans have developed guidelines for asset allocations To implement the investment strategy, plan assets are invested in funds that primarily invest in securities that correspond to one Assets held with PICA are in either pooled separate accounts or single client separate accounts. Assets held with a bank are There were no investments in Prudential Financial Common Stock as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 for either The authoritative guidance around fair value established a framework for measuring fair value. Fair value is disclosed using a The following describes the valuation methodologies used for pension and postretirement plans assets measured at fair value. Insurance Company Pooled Separate Accounts, Common or Collective Trusts, and United Kingdom Insurance Pooled Funds Equities See Note 6 for a discussion of the valuation methodologies for equity securities. U.S. Government Securities (both Federal and State & Other), Non U.S. Government Securities, and Corporate Debt See Interest Rate Swaps See Note 6 for a discussion of the valuation methodologies for derivative instruments. Registered Investment Companies (Mutual Funds) Securities are priced at the NAV, which is the closing price published by Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Investment of Securities Lending Collateral This value is the contractual position relative to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 344 425 Table of Contents premium (i.e., amortized cost). Amortized cost approximates fair value. private placements, structured debt, real estate, equities, fixed maturities, commodities and other investments. other investments. Group policies are invested in Insurance Company Pooled Separate Accounts. Individual policies are invested in Registered Investment Companies (Mutual Funds). The value of interest in these policies is the cash surrender value (contract value) of the policies based on the underlying investments. The variable life insurance policies are valued at contract value which approximates fair value. As of December 31, 2020 As of December 31, 2019 (5) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total (in millions) Fixed Maturities: Real Estate: Investments Measured at Net Asset Value, as a practical expedient (4) U.S. government securities (federal): U.S. government securities (state & other) 0 588 0 588 0 562 0 562 Non-U.S. government securities 0 103 0 103 0 93 0 93 Corporate Debt: Interest rate swaps (1) 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 2 Registered investment companies 96 0 0 96 7 0 0 7 Other (2) 33 2 35 70 37 (2) 44 79 Unrealized gain (loss) on investment of securities lending collateral (3) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Partnerships 0 0 838 838 0 0 688 688 Partnerships 0 0 1,234 1,234 0 0 973 973 Hedge funds 0 0 1,327 1,327 0 0 1,312 1,312 Pooled separate accounts 2,659 2,869 Common collective trusts 1,440 1,185 United Kingdom insurance pooled funds 186 167 Short-term Investments Securities are valued initially at cost and thereafter adjusted for amortization of any discount or Partnerships The value of interests owned in partnerships is based on valuations of the underlying investments that include Hedge Funds The value of interests in hedge funds is based on the underlying investments that include equities, debt and Variable Life Insurance Policies These assets are held in group and individual variable life insurance policies issued by PICA. Pension plan asset allocations in accordance with the investment guidelines are as follows: Mortgage-backed 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 Other U.S. government securities 0 985 0 985 0 783 0 783 Corporate bonds 0 4,290 0 4,290 0 4,281 0 4,281 Asset-backed 0 25 0 25 0 22 0 22 Collateralized Mortgage Obligations 0 614 0 614 0 485 0 485 Collateralized Loan Obligations 0 441 0 441 0 397 0 397 Subtotal fixed maturities 129 7,049 35 7,213 44 6,624 44 6,712 Subtotal other 0 0 2,561 2,561 0 0 2,285 2,285 Net assets in the fair value hierarchy 129 7,049 3,434 10,612 44 6,624 3,017 9,685 Net assets at fair value 14,897 13,906 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 345 425 (1) Interest rate swaps notional amount is 13 million and 2,462 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (2) This category primarily consists of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, payables and receivables, and open future contract positions (including fixed income collateral). (3) The contractual net value of the investment of securities lending collateral invested primarily in short-term bond funds is 586 million and 135 million and the liability for securities lending collateral is 586 million and 135 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (4) The pension plan excludes from the fair value hierarchy investments that are measured at NAV per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient to estimate fair value. (5) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to the current year presentation. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 346 425 Table of Contents Changes in Fair Value of Level 3 Pension Assets (1) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to the current year presentation (2) The transfers from level 3 to level 2 are due to the availability of external pricing sources. Postretirement plan asset allocations in accordance with the investment guidelines are as follows: (in millions) Fair Value, January 1, 2019 2 62 482 830 1,463 Fair Value, December 31, 2019 0 44 688 973 1,312 Fair Value, December 31, 2020 0 35 838 1,234 1,327 As of December 31, 2020 As of December 31, 2019 (3) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total (in millions) Fixed Maturities: Short-term Investments: Investments Measured at Net Asset Value, Variable Life Insurance Policies at contract value 1,055 958 as a practical expedient (2) Actual Return on Assets: Purchases, sales and settlements 0 (18) 165 75 (166) Transfers in and or out of Level 3 (2) (2) 0 0 0 0 Actual Return on Assets: Purchases, sales and settlements 0 (9) 139 100 (101) Transfers in and or out of Level 3 0 0 0 0 0 U.S. Equities 0 14 0 14 0 14 0 14 International Equities 0 9 0 9 0 8 0 8 U.S. government securities (federal): Non-U.S. government securities 0 1 0 1 0 2 0 2 Corporate Debt: Registered investment companies 19 0 0 19 4 0 0 4 Equities 0 22 0 22 0 20 0 20 Other (1) 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 Registered investment companies 165 0 0 165 163 0 0 163 Common trusts 279 273 Relating to assets still held at the reporting date 0 0 41 68 15 Relating to assets sold during the period 0 0 0 0 0 Relating to assets still held at the reporting date 0 0 11 161 116 Relating to assets sold during the period 0 0 0 0 0 Other U.S. government securities 0 9 0 9 0 20 0 20 Corporate bonds 0 7 0 7 0 53 0 53 Asset-backed 0 2 0 2 0 16 0 16 Collateralized Mortgage Obligations 0 3 0 3 0 10 0 10 Collateralized Loan Obligations 0 4 0 4 0 15 0 15 Subtotal equities 0 23 0 23 0 22 0 22 Subtotal fixed maturities 19 48 0 67 4 136 1 141 Net assets in the fair value hierarchy 184 71 0 255 167 158 1 326 Net assets at fair value 534 599 Total net assets 1,589 1,557 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Fixed Maturities Other Partnerships Partnerships Hedge Fund Estate(1) Other(1) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 347 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 348 425 Table of Contents (1) This category primarily consists of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, payables and receivables and open future contract positions (including fixed income collateral). (2) The postretirement plan excludes from the fair value hierarchy investments that are measured at NAV per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient to estimate fair value. (3) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to the current year presentation. Changes in Fair Value of Level 3 Postretirement Assets (1) The transfers from level 3 to level 2 are due to the availability of external pricing sources. subsidy receipts related to the Company s postretirement plan, for the years indicated are as follows: approximately 10 million to the postretirement plans. Postemployment Benefits inactive employees who are not retirees. The net accumulated liability for these benefits at December 31, 2020 and 2019 was 15 million and 1 million, respectively, and is included in Other liabilities. Other Employee Benefits (in millions) Fair Value, January 1, 2019 1 1 3 Fair Value, December 31, 2019 0 0 1 Fair Value, December 31, 2020 0 0 0 (in millions) 2021 802 148 7 2022 824 149 7 2023 862 148 6 2024 866 148 6 2025 897 145 6 2026-2030 4,646 669 28 Total 8,897 1,407 60 Actual Return on Assets: Purchases, sales and settlements 0 (1) (2) Transfers in and or out of Level 3 (1) (1) 0 0 Actual Return on Assets: Purchases, sales and settlements 0 0 (1) Transfers in and or out of Level 3 0 0 0 The expected benefit payments for the Company s pension and postretirement plans, as well as the expected Medicare Part D The Company anticipates that it will make cash contributions in 2021 of approximately 185 million to the pension plans and The Company accrues postemployment benefits for income continuance and health and life benefits provided to former or Relating to assets still held at the reporting date 0 0 0 Relating to assets sold during the period 0 0 0 Relating to assets still held at the reporting date 0 0 0 Relating to assets sold during the period 0 0 0 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Pension Benefit Asset-backed Benefit Payments Postretirement Fixed Maturities Collateralized Mortgage Obligations Other Postretirement Medicare Part D Subsidy Benefits 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 349 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 350 425 Table of Contents contributions by employees and matching contributions by the Company of up to 4% of annual salary. The matching contributions by the Company included in General and administrative expenses were 82 million, 84 million and 89 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 19. EQUITY Preferred Stock outstanding. Common Stock Stock. The shares of Common Stock issued were in addition to shares of Common Stock the Company distributed to policyholders as part of the demutualization. The Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PRU . In the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company, holders of Common Stock would be entitled to receive a proportionate share of the net assets of the Company that remain after paying all liabilities and the liquidation preferences of any preferred stock. indicated: (1) Represents net shares issued from treasury pursuant to the Company s stock-based compensation programs. (2) In August 2019, as a result of the note holders exercise of the exchange option on 500 million of surplus notes, the Company issued approximately 6.2 million shares of Common Stock at an exchange rate equal to 12.3877 shares of Common Stock per each 1,000 principal amount of surplus notes. The Company s obligations under the surplus notes are now satisfied. For additional information, see Note 20. (3) In October 2019, the Company issued approximately 5.5 million shares of restricted Common Stock as part of consideration paid for the Assurance IQ acquisition. For additional information about the acquisition, see Note 1. Additional paid-in capital in conjunction with past issuances of Common Stock shares or Common Stock shares reissued from treasury in conjunction with the Company s stock-based compensation program and (b) the total par value associated with those shares ( .01 per share). Common stock held in treasury the Company but not retired. These shares are accounted for at the cost at which they were acquired. Common Stock held in Common Stock Held In Treasury Outstanding (in millions) Balance, December 31, 2017 660.1 237.5 422.6 Common Stock issued 0.0 0.0 0.0 Common Stock acquired 0.0 14.9 (14.9) Stock-based compensation programs(1) 0.0 (3.0) 3.0 Balance, December 31, 2018 660.1 249.4 410.7 Common Stock issued(2)(3) 6.2 (5.5) 11.7 Common Stock acquired 0.0 27.2 (27.2) Stock-based compensation programs(1) 0.0 (3.6) 3.6 Balance, December 31, 2019 666.3 267.5 398.8 Common Stock issued 0.0 0.0 0.0 Common Stock acquired 0.0 6.7 (6.7) Stock-based compensation programs(1) 0.0 (4.3) 4.3 Balance, December 31, 2020 666.3 269.9 396.4 The Company sponsors voluntary savings plans for employees (401(k) plans). The plans provide for salary reduction As of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company had 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock authorized but none issued or On the date of demutualization in December 2001, Prudential Financial completed an initial public offering of its Common The changes in the number of shares of Common Stock issued, held in treasury and outstanding, are as follows for the periods Additional paid-in capital is primarily comprised of the cumulative excess between: (a) the total cash received by the Company Common Stock held in treasury represents the Company s previously issued shares of stock which have been repurchased by Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 351 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 352 425 Table of Contents treasury is typically impacted by repurchases of shares under the Board of Directors approved share repurchase program and by reissuances of shares associated with our stock-based compensation programs, or for other purposes, which are accounted for at average cost upon reissuance. Gains resulting from the reissuance of Common Stock held in treasury are credited to Additional paid- in capital. Losses resulting from the reissuance of Common Stock held in treasury are charged first to Additional paid-in capital to the extent the Company has previously recorded gains on treasury share transactions, then to Retained earnings. of the Company. The timing and amount of share repurchases are determined by management based upon market conditions and other considerations, and repurchases may be executed in the open market, through derivative, accelerated repurchase and other negotiated transactions and through prearranged trading plans complying with Rule 10b5-1(c) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ). Numerous factors could affect the timing and amount of any future repurchases under the share repurchase authorization, including increased capital needs of the Company due to changes in regulatory capital requirements, opportunities for growth and acquisitions, and the effect of adverse market conditions on the segments. for 2021, which was approved by the Board of Directors in February 2021: Share repurchase authorization for a future period. (1) In April 2020, the Company suspended Common Stock repurchases under the 2020 share repurchase authorization and did not resume share repurchases for the remainder of the authorization period. Total Board authorized share repurchase amount ( in billions) 1.5 2.0 2.5 1.5 Total number of shares repurchased under this authorization as of the period end (in millions) N A 6.7 27.2 14.9 The Board of Directors may from time to time, at its discretion, authorize management to repurchase shares of Common Stock The following table summarizes share repurchases for each of the past three years as well as the share repurchase authorization Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) December 31, 2021 January 1, 2021 - PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. January 1, 2020 - December 31, December 31, 2019 January 1, 2019 - December 31, 2018 January 1, 2018 - 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 353 425 Table of Contents Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Statements of Comprehensive Income. Each of the components that comprise OCI are described in further detail in Note 2 (Foreign Currency Translation Adjustment and Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses)) and Note 18 (Pension and Postretirement Unrecognized Net Periodic Benefit (Cost)). The balance of and changes in each component of AOCI as of and for the years ended December 31, are as follows: (1) Includes cash flow hedges of (168) million, 832 million and 811 million as of December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, and fair value hedges of 10 million, 0 million, and 0 million as of December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. (in millions) Balance, December 31, 2017 (269) 19,968 (2,625) 17,074 Change in OCI before reclassifications (74) (7,614) (547) (8,235) Amounts reclassified from AOCI 1 (779) 227 (551) Income tax benefit (expense) 9 1,735 68 1,812 Cumulative effect of adoption of ASU 2016-01 0 (847) 0 (847) Cumulative effect of adoption of ASU 2018-02 (231) 2,282 (398) 1,653 Balance, December 31, 2018 (564) 14,745 (3,275) 10,906 Change in OCI before reclassifications 37 18,540 (563) 18,014 Amounts reclassified from AOCI 27 (1,345) 241 (1,077) Income tax benefit (expense) (36) (3,835) 60 (3,811) Cumulative effect of adoption of ASU 2017-12 0 7 0 7 Balance, December 31, 2019 (536) 28,112 (3,537) 24,039 Change in OCI before reclassifications 455 8,112 (70) 8,497 Amounts reclassified from AOCI 57 (883) 280 (546) Income tax benefit (expense) 76 (1,276) (52) (1,252) Balance, December 31, 2020 52 34,065 (3,379) 30,738 AOCI represents the cumulative OCI items that are reported separate from net income and detailed on the Consolidated Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Adjustment Translation Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. Net Unrealized Investment (Losses)(1) Periodic Benefit (Cost) Unrecognized Net Postretirement Pension and Total Accumulated Comprehensive Income (Loss) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 354 425 Table of Contents Reclassifications out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (1) All amounts are shown before tax. (2) Positive amounts indicate gains benefits reclassified out of AOCI. Negative amounts indicate losses costs reclassified out of AOCI. (3) See Note 5 for additional information on cash flow and fair value hedges. (4) See table below for additional information on unrealized investment gains (losses), including the impact on deferred policy acquisition and other costs, future policy benefits and policyholders dividends. (5) See Note 18 for information on employee benefit plans. Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses) other assets are included in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as a component of AOCI. Changes in these amounts include reclassification adjustments to exclude from Other comprehensive income (loss) those items that are included as part of Net income for a period that had been part of Other comprehensive income (loss) in earlier periods. The amounts for the periods indicated below, split between amounts related to available-for-sale fixed maturity securities on which an OTTI loss had been previously recognized, an allowance for credit losses has been recognized, and all other net unrealized investment gains (losses), are as follows: Years Ended December 31, Affected line item in Consolidated Statements of Operations 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Amounts reclassified from AOCI(1)(2): Foreign currency translation adjustment: Net unrealized investment gains (losses): Amortization of defined benefit items: Foreign currency translation adjustment 1 (27) (1) Realized investment gains (losses), net Foreign currency translation adjustment (58) 0 0 Other income (loss) Cash flow hedges Interest Rate 40 58 1 (3) Cash flow hedges Currency 5 6 7 (3) Cash flow hedges Currency Interest rate 110 315 543 (3) Fair value hedges Currency (1) 0 0 (3) Net unrealized investment gains (losses) on available- for-sale securities 729 966 228 Realized investment gains (losses), net Prior service cost (2) 0 3 (5) Actuarial gain (loss) (278) (241) (230) (5) Net unrealized investment gains (losses) on available-for-sale fixed maturity securities and certain other invested assets and Total foreign currency translation adjustment (57) (27) (1) Total net unrealized investment gains (losses) 883 1,345 779 (4) Total amortization of defined benefit items (280) (241) (227) Total reclassifications for the period 546 1,077 551 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 355 425 Table of Contents Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses) on Available-for-Sale Fixed Maturity Securities on which an OTTI loss had been previously recognized and an allowance for credit losses has been recognized (1) Represents transfers in related to the portion of OTTI losses recognized during the period that were not recognized in earnings for securities with no prior OTTI loss. (2) Represents net unrealized gains (losses) for which an OTTI loss had been previously recognized. (in millions) Balance, December 31, 2017 286 (2) 3 (46) (94) 147 Net investment gains (losses) on investments arising during the period (19) 8 (11) Reclassification adjustment for (gains) losses included in net income (76) 33 (43) Reclassification adjustment for OTTI losses excluded from net income(1) (2) 1 (1) Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on DAC, DSI, VOBA and reinsurance recoverables 1 0 1 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on future policy benefits, policyholders account balances and reinsurance payables 1 0 1 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on policyholders dividends 23 (9) 14 Balance, December 31, 2018 189 (1) 4 (23) (61) 108 Net investment gains (losses) on investments arising during the period 129 (29) 100 Reclassification adjustment for (gains) losses included in net income (96) 21 (75) Reclassification adjustment for OTTI losses excluded from net income(1) 21 (5) 16 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on DAC, DSI, VOBA and reinsurance recoverables 0 0 0 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on future policy benefits, policyholders account balances and reinsurance payables 1 0 1 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on policyholders dividends 1 0 1 Balance, December 31, 2019 243 (1) 5 (22) (74) 151 Reclassification to all other due to implementation of ASU 2016-13(2) (243) 1 (5) 22 74 (151) Net investment gains (losses) on investments arising during the period 47 (9) 38 Reclassification adjustment for (gains) losses included in net income 25 (5) 20 Increase (Decrease) due to non-credit related losses recognized in AOCI during the period (97) 19 (78) Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on DAC, DSI, VOBA and reinsurance recoverables 1 0 1 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on future policy benefits, policyholders account balances and reinsurance payables (1) 0 (1) Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on policyholders dividends 11 (2) 9 Balance, December 31, 2020 (25) 1 (1) 11 3 (11) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) on Investments Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. DAC, DSI, VOBA and Reinsurance Recoverables Policyholders Future Policy Balances and Reinsurance Benefits, Policyholders Dividends (Liability) Comprehensive Income (Loss) Gains (Losses) Related to Net Accumulated Investment Unrealized 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 356 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 357 425 Table of Contents All Other Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses) in AOCI (1) Includes cash flow and fair value hedges. See Note 5 for additional information. (in millions) Balance, December 31, 2017 36,112 (1,580) (1,243) (3,631) (9,837) 19,821 Net investment gains (losses) on investments arising during the period (10,838) 2,893 (7,945) Reclassification adjustment for (gains) losses included in net income (703) 303 (400) Reclassification adjustment for OTTI losses excluded from net income(2) 2 (1) 1 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on DAC, DSI, VOBA and reinsurance recoverables 842 (263) 579 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on future policy benefits, policyholders account balances and reinsurance payables 452 (186) 266 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on policyholders dividends 1,924 (874) 1,050 Cumulative effect of adoption of ASU 2016-01 (2,042) 813 212 (1,017) Cumulative effect of adoption of ASU 2018-02 2,282 2,282 Balance, December 31, 2018 22,531 (738) (791) (894) (5,471) 14,637 Net investment gains (losses) on investments arising during the period 23,826 (5,282) 18,544 Reclassification adjustment for (gains) losses included in net income (1,249) 277 (972) Reclassification adjustment for OTTI losses excluded from net income(2) (21) 5 (16) Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on DAC, DSI, VOBA and reinsurance recoverables (846) 190 (656) Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on future policy benefits, policyholders account balances and reinsurance payables (2,123) 475 (1,648) Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on policyholders dividends (2,450) 515 (1,935) Cumulative effect of adoption of ASU 2017-12 9 (2) 7 Balance, December 31, 2019 45,096 (1,584) (2,914) (3,344) (9,293) 27,961 Reclassification due to implementation of ASU 2016-13(3) 243 (1) 5 (22) (74) 151 Net investment gains (losses) on investments arising during the period 13,914 (2,656) 11,258 Reclassification adjustment for (gains) losses included in net income (908) 173 (735) Reclassification due to allowance for credit losses recorded during the period 97 (19) 78 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on DAC, DSI, VOBA and reinsurance recoverables 355 (70) 285 Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on future policy benefits, policyholders account balances and reinsurance payables (3,678) 760 (2,918) Impact of net unrealized investment (gains) losses on policyholders dividends (2,537) 533 (2,004) Balance, December 31, 2020 58,442 (1,230) (6,587) (5,903) (10,646) 34,076 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) on Investments(1) Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. DAC, DSI, VOBA and Reinsurance Recoverables Policyholders Future Policy Balances and Reinsurance Benefits, Policyholders Dividends (Liability) Comprehensive Income (Loss) Gains (Losses) Related to Net Accumulated Investment Unrealized 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 358 425 (2) Represents transfers out related to the portion of OTTI losses recognized during the period that were not recognized in earnings for securities with no prior OTTI loss. (3) Represents net unrealized gains (losses) for which an OTTI loss had been previously recognized. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 359 425 Table of Contents Retained earnings Company as of the reporting date. Other unique items, included but not limited to the adoption of new accounting standards updates, may also impact retained earnings. In any given period, retained earnings may increase due to net income and may decrease due to net losses or the declaration of dividends. The declaration and payment of dividends on the Common Stock is limited by New Jersey corporate law, pursuant to which Prudential Financial is prohibited from paying a Common Stock dividend if, after giving effect to that dividend, either (a) the Company would be unable to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of its business or (b) the Company s total assets would be less than its liabilities. In addition, the terms of the Company s outstanding junior subordinated debt include a dividend stopper provision that restricts the payment of dividends on the Common Stock if interest payments are not made on the junior subordinated debt. Stock dividends however, Common Stock dividends will be dependent upon financial conditions, results of operations, cash needs, future prospects and other factors, including cash available to Prudential Financial, the parent holding company. The principal sources of funds available to Prudential Financial are dividends and returns of capital from its subsidiaries, loans from its subsidiaries, repayments of operating loans from its subsidiaries, and cash and other highly liquid assets. The primary uses of funds at Prudential Financial include servicing its debt, operating expenses, capital contributions and loans to subsidiaries, the payment of declared shareholder dividends and repurchases of outstanding shares of Common Stock if executed under Board authority. As of December 31, 2020, Prudential Financial had highly liquid assets (excluding amounts held in an intercompany liquidity account) of 5,560 million predominantly including cash, short-term investments, U.S. Treasury securities, obligations of other U.S. government authorities and agencies, and or foreign government bonds. receipt of dividends or other funds from its subsidiaries, the majority of which are subject to comprehensive regulation, including limitations on their payment of dividends and other transfers of funds, which are discussed in this Note further below. Non-controlling interests consolidate 100% of the subsidiary s financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Non-controlling interests represent the portion of equity ownership in a consolidated subsidiary that is not attributable to the Company. Insurance Subsidiaries - Statutory Financial Information and Restrictions on Payments of Dividends U.S. Insurance Subsidiaries - Statutory Financial Information statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the insurance department of the state of domicile. Statutory accounting practices primarily differ from U.S. GAAP by charging policy acquisition costs to expense as incurred, establishing future policy benefit liabilities using different actuarial assumptions as well as valuing investments and certain assets and accounting for deferred taxes on a different basis. capital adequacy of PICA and the Company s other domestic insurance subsidiaries. RBC is determined by NAIC-prescribed formulas that consider, among other things, risks related to the type and quality of the invested assets, insurance-related risks associated with an insurer s products and liabilities, interest rate risks and general business risks. Insurers that have less statutory capital than required are considered to have inadequate capital and are subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level of capital inadequacy. The Company expects to report RBC ratios as of December 31, 2020 above the regulatory required minimums that would require corrective action and above our AA financial strength target levels for both PICA and Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation ( PALAC ). subsidiaries for the periods indicated: Retained earnings primarily represents the cumulative net income earned by the Company that has been retained by the Other than the above limitations, the Company s Retained earnings balance is free of restrictions for the payment of Common Future cash available at Prudential Financial to support the payment of future Common Stock dividends is dependent on the The Company s domestic insurance subsidiaries are required to prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with The risk-based capital ( RBC ) ratio is a primary measure by which the Company and its insurance regulators evaluate the The following table summarizes certain statutory financial information for the Company s two largest U.S. insurance For certain subsidiaries, the Company owns a controlling interest that is less than 100% ownership of the subsidiary but must Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 360 425 Table of Contents U.S. Insurance Subsidiaries - Restrictions on Payment of Dividends to Prudential Financial, the Parent Holding Company subsidiary, New Jersey insurance law provides that, except in the case of extraordinary dividends (as described below), all dividends or other distributions paid by PICA may be paid only from unassigned surplus, as determined pursuant to statutory accounting principles, less cumulative unrealized investment gains and losses and revaluation of assets as of the prior calendar year-end. As of December 31, 2020, PICA s unassigned surplus less applicable adjustments for cumulative unrealized investment gains was 8,266 million. PICA must give prior notification to the NJDOBI of its intent to pay any such dividend or distribution. Also, if any dividend, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of (i) 10% of statutory capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31 or (ii) its statutory net gain from operations excluding realized investment gains and losses for the twelve-month period ending on the preceding December 31, the dividend is considered to be an extraordinary dividend and requires the prior approval of the NJDOBI. Under New Jersey insurance law, PICA is permitted to pay an ordinary dividend of up to 1,476 million in 2021, without prior approval of the NJDOBI. similar, but not identical, to New Jersey. With respect to PALAC, an Arizona domiciled insurance subsidiary of the Company, Arizona insurance law provides that if any dividend, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the lesser of (i) 10% of statutory capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31 or (ii) its statutory net gain from operations excluding realized investment gains and losses for the twelve month period ending on the preceding December 31, the dividend is considered to be an extraordinary dividend and requires prior approval of the Arizona Department of Insurance. Under Arizona law, PALAC has no ordinary dividend capacity during 2021. All dividends will be considered extraordinary and will require prior approval from the Arizona Department of Insurance. International Insurance Subsidiaries - Statutory Financial Information requirements. These statutory accounting practices differ from U.S. GAAP primarily by charging policy acquisition costs to expense as incurred and establishing future policy benefit liabilities using different actuarial assumptions, as well as valuing investments and certain assets and accounting for deferred taxes on a different basis. insurance companies. The solvency margin ratio considers the level of solvency margin capital to a solvency margin risk amount, which is calculated in a similar manner to RBC. As of December 31, 2020, the Company expects The Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd. ( Prudential of Japan ) and Gibraltar Life both had solvency margin capital in excess of 3.5 times the regulatory required minimums that would require corrective action. respective regulatory minimum requirements, and none utilized prescribed or permitted practices that vary materially from the practices prescribed by the NAIC or equivalent regulatory bodies for results reported as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, or for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. International Insurance Subsidiaries - Restrictions on Payment of Dividends to Prudential Financial, the Parent Holding Company jurisdictions in which they operate. With respect to Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life, the Company s most significant international insurance subsidiaries, both of which are domiciled in Japan, Japan insurance law provides that common stock dividends may be paid in an amount of up to 83% of prior fiscal year statutory after-tax earnings, after certain reserving thresholds are met, including providing for policyholder dividends. If statutory retained earnings exceed 100% of statutory paid-in capital, 100% of prior year statutory after-tax earnings may be paid, after reserving thresholds are met. Dividends in In millions and presented as of or for the year ended Statutory net income (loss) 1,770 (169) 1,324 (637) (2,052) (852) Statutory capital and surplus 11,597 11,483 10,695 6,262 4,748 6,396 With respect to PICA, a New Jersey domiciled insurance subsidiary which is also the Company s primary domestic insurance The laws regulating dividends of the states where the Company s other domestic insurance subsidiaries are domiciled are The Company s international insurance subsidiaries prepare financial statements in accordance with local regulatory The Japan Financial Services Agency ( FSA ) utilizes a solvency margin ratio to evaluate the capital adequacy of Japanese All of the Company s domestic and international insurance subsidiaries have capital and surplus levels that exceed their The Company s international insurance operations are subject to dividend restrictions from the regulatory authorities in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) December 31, PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 361 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 362 425 Table of Contents excess of these amounts and other forms of capital distribution require the prior approval of the FSA. Additionally, Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life must give prior notification to the FSA of their intent to pay any dividend or distribution. subsidiaries, which includes 1,627 million of net proceeds from the sale of POK and 470 million of in-kind dividends in the form of extinguishment of debt held by international insurance subsidiaries. In addition to paying Common Stock dividends, the Company s international insurance operations may return capital to Prudential Financial through, or facilitated by, other means, such as the repayment of Preferred Stock obligations held by Prudential Financial or other affiliates, affiliated lending, affiliated derivatives and reinsurance with U.S.- and Bermuda-based affiliates. In 2019, the Company s Japan insurance operations entered into reinsurance agreements with Gibraltar Re, the Company s Bermuda-based reinsurance affiliate, to reinsure the mortality and morbidity risk associated with a portion of the in-force contracts as well as newly-issued contracts for certain products. The Company expects these transactions will allow it to more efficiently manage its capital and risk profile. The current regulatory fiscal year end for both Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life is March 31, 2021, after which time the common stock dividend amount permitted to be paid without prior approval from the FSA can be determined. described above, in practice, the Company would typically discuss any dividend payments with the applicable regulatory authority prior to payment. Additionally, the payment of dividends by the Company s subsidiaries is subject to declaration by their Board of Directors and may be affected by market conditions and other factors. 20. EARNINGS PER SHARE on the consolidated earnings of Prudential Financial for the years ended December 31, is as follows: For the year ended December 31, 2020, Prudential Financial received 3,531 million from its international insurance In addition, although prior regulatory approval may not be required by law for the payment of dividends up to the limitations A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted per share computations of Common Stock based Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 363 425 Table of Contents (1) For the year ended December 31, 2020, weighted average shares for basic earnings per share is also used for calculating diluted earnings per share because dilutive shares and dilutive earnings per share are not applicable when a net loss is reported. As a result of the net loss attributable to Prudential Financial available to holders of Common Stock for the year ended December 31, 2020, all potential stock options and compensation programs were considered antidilutive. the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method. Under this method, earnings attributable to Prudential Financial are allocated between Common Stock and the participating awards, as if the awards were a second class of stock. During periods of net income available to holders of Common Stock, the calculation of earnings per share excludes the income attributable to participating securities in the numerator and the dilutive impact of these securities from the denominator. In the event of a net loss available to holders of Common Stock, undistributed earnings are not allocated to participating securities and the denominator excludes the dilutive impact of these securities as they do not share in the losses of the Company. Undistributed earnings allocated to participating unvested share-based payment awards for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, as applicable, were based on 4.9 million, 4.6 million and 4.9 million of such awards, respectively, weighted for the period they were outstanding. from the computation of diluted earnings per share. Stock options are considered antidilutive based on application of the treasury stock method or in the event of a net loss available to holders of Common Stock. Shares related to deferred and long-term compensation programs are considered antidilutive in the event of a net loss available to holders of Common Stock. For the years ended December 31, the number of stock options and shares related to deferred and long-term compensation programs that were considered antidilutive and were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share, weighted for the portion of the period they were outstanding, are as follows: 2020 2019 2018 (in millions, except per share amounts) Basic earnings per share Net income (loss) (146) 4,238 4,088 Less: Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 228 52 14 Less: Dividends and undistributed earnings allocated to participating unvested share-based payment awards 21 46 48 Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial available to holders of Common Stock (395) 395.8 (1.00) 4,140 404.8 10.23 4,026 417.6 9.64 Effect of dilutive securities and compensation programs Add: Dividends and undistributed earnings allocated to participating unvested share-based payment awards Basic 21 46 48 Less: Dividends and undistributed earnings allocated to participating unvested share-based payment awards Diluted 21 45 47 Stock options 0.0 1.1 1.5 Deferred and long-term compensation programs 0.0 1.4 1.2 Exchangeable Surplus Notes 0 0.0 12 3.6 21 5.9 Diluted earnings per share(1) Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial available to holders of Common Stock (395) 395.8 (1.00) 4,153 410.9 10.11 4,048 426.2 9.50 Unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends are participating securities and included in Stock options and shares related to deferred and long-term compensation programs that are considered antidilutive are excluded Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Amount Income Amount Income 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 364 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 365 425 Table of Contents exchangeable at the option of the note holders for shares of Common Stock. In August 2019, as a result of the note holders exercise of the exchange option, the Company issued approximately 6.2 million shares of Common Stock at an exchange rate equal to 12.3877 shares of Common Stock per each 1,000 principal amount of surplus notes. The Company s obligations under the surplus notes are now satisfied. In calculating diluted earnings per share under the if-converted method, for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the potential shares that would be issued assuming a hypothetical exchange, weighted for the period the notes were outstanding, are added to the denominator, and the related interest expense, net of tax, is excluded from the numerator, if the overall effect is dilutive. 21. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Omnibus Incentive Plan rights, restricted stock shares, restricted stock units, stock settled performance shares, and cash settled performance units. Dividend equivalents are generally provided on restricted stock shares and restricted stock units outstanding as of the record date. Dividend equivalents are generally accrued on target performance shares and units outstanding as of the record date. These dividend equivalents are paid only on the performance shares and units released up to a maximum of the target number of shares and units awarded. Generally, the requisite service period is the vesting period. There were 9,906,113 authorized shares available for grant under the Omnibus Incentive Plan as of December 31, 2020. Assurance IQ Acquisition involved share-based payment arrangements that are linked to retention and therefore fall under the reporting requirements of ASC 718, Stock Compensation. These compensation awards include stock options, restricted stock units and performance shares. Compensation Costs the share price of the underlying Common Stock at the date of grant. Incentive Plan, the fair value of each stock option award is estimated using a binomial option pricing model on the date of grant for stock options issued to employees. For the Acquisition related awards, the fair value of each stock option award is based on its intrinsic value on the date of grant. 2020 2019 2018 Antidilutive stock options based on application of the treasury stock method 3.3 82.06 1.2 102.84 0.7 108.34 Antidilutive stock options due to net loss available to holders of Common Stock 0.4 0.0 0.0 Antidilutive shares based on application of the treasury stock method 0.2 0.0 0.0 Antidilutive shares due to net loss available to holders of Common Stock 1.6 0.0 0.0 Total antidilutive stock options and shares 5.5 1.2 0.7 In September 2009, the Company issued 500 million of surplus notes with an interest rate of 5.36% per annum which were Prudential Financial, Inc. s Omnibus Incentive Plan provides stock-based awards including stock options, stock appreciation The Company acquired Assurance IQ on October 10, 2019. The terms of the Acquisition included compensation awards that Compensation cost for restricted stock units, performance shares and performance units granted to employees is measured by Compensation cost for employee stock options is based on the fair values estimated on the grant date. Under the Omnibus The weighted average grant date assumptions used in the binomial option valuation model are as follows: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. (in millions, except per share amounts, based on Price Per Share Shares weighted average) Price Per Share Shares Price Per 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 366 425 Table of Contents traded options on Prudential Financial s Common Stock. The Company uses historical data and expectations of future exercise patterns to estimate option exercises and employee terminations within the valuation model. The expected term of options granted represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate for periods associated with the expected term of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. restricted stock units, performance shares and performance units for the years ended December 31: (1) Compensation costs related to retirement eligible participants are recorded on the grant date (typically in the first quarter of every year). December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 were de minimis. Stock Options Financial s Common Stock on the date of grant and has a maximum term of 10 years. Generally, one third of the option grant vests in each of the first three years. Options granted related to the Acquisition have an exercise price based on the original strike price of the Assurance IQ options that they replaced and have a maximum term of 10 years from the date the Assurance IQ options were originally granted. Options granted related to the Acquisition generally vest quarterly over three years. Expected volatility 33.99 % 34.63 % 35.39 % Expected dividend yield 4.59 % 4.26 % 2.88 % Expected term 5.60 years 5.54 years 5.49 years Risk-free interest rate 1.42 % 2.50 % 2.64 % 2020 2019 2018 Omnibus Incentive Plan: (in millions) Employee stock options 11 3 11 3 13 3 Employee restricted stock units 162 38 149 35 139 32 Employee performance shares and performance units 53 12 71 17 3 1 Assurance IQ Acquisition: (in millions) Employee stock options 14 4 4 1 Employee restricted stock units 2 1 1 0 Employee performance shares 0 0 0 0 Total 226 53 231 55 155 36 Total 16 5 5 1 Expected volatilities are based on historical volatility of Prudential Financial s Common Stock and implied volatilities from The following table summarizes the compensation cost recognized and the related income tax benefit for stock options, Compensation costs related to stock-based compensation plans capitalized in deferred acquisition costs for the years ended Each stock option granted under the Omnibus Incentive Plan has an exercise price at the fair market value of Prudential Compensation Cost Recognized (1) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Income Tax Compensation Cost Compensation Cost Recognized Recognized (1) Income Tax Income Tax 2020 2019 2018 Compensation Cost Compensation Cost Recognized Recognized (1) Income Tax Income Tax 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 367 425 Table of Contents years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 18.00, 20.02 and 27.11, respectively. For the Acquisition related awards, the weighted average grant date fair value of employee stock options granted during the year ended December 31, 2019 was 86.31. No Acquisition related options were granted in 2020. during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 13 million, 21 million, and 28 million, respectively. For the Acquisition related awards, the total intrinsic value of employee stock options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were 10 million and 3 million, respectively. as of December 31, 2020 is as follows: Restricted Stock Units, Performance Share Awards and Performance Unit Awards a specified period of time, which is subject to forfeiture and transfer restrictions. Generally, the restrictions will lapse on the third anniversary of the date of grant. Performance shares and performance units are awards denominated in Prudential Financial s Common Stock. The number of units is determined over the performance period and may be adjusted based on the satisfaction of certain performance goals for the Company. Performance share awards are payable in Prudential Financial s Common Stock. Performance unit awards are payable in cash. Effective October 2019, the Company modified certain provisions of its long term compensation plan to settle the performance units component in Prudential Financial Common Stock. As a result, outstanding performance units were converted to performance shares except for certain employee directed deferrals in the deferred compensation plan which remain as performance units for the full life of the grant. Beginning in 2020, the Company no longer grants performance unit awards. Incentive Plan is as follows: Employee Stock Options Outstanding at December 31, 2019 4,610,997 76.26 547,192 1.38 Outstanding at December 31, 2020 4,563,852 81.21 394,266 1.60 Exercisable at December 31, 2020 3,427,197 76.25 57,791 4.02 Employee Stock Options Omnibus Incentive Plan Assurance IQ Acquisition (in years) (in millions) (in years) (in millions) Outstanding 4.47 32 7.44 30 Exercisable 3.46 32 7.39 4 Granted 610,027 95.87 0 0.00 Exercised (647,313) 59.82 (142,638) 0.51 Forfeited 0 0.00 (10,288) 5.10 Expired (9,859) 78.45 0 0.00 A summary of the status of the Company s stock option grants is as follows: The weighted average grant date fair value of employee stock options granted under the Omnibus Incentive Plan during the The total intrinsic value (i.e., market price of the stock less the option exercise price) of employee stock options exercised The weighted average remaining contractual term and the aggregate intrinsic value of stock options outstanding and exercisable A restricted stock unit is an unfunded, unsecured right to receive a share of Prudential Financial s Common Stock at the end of A summary of the Company s restricted stock units, performance shares and performance unit awards under the Omnibus Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Weighted Average Contractual Term Remaining Omnibus Incentive Plan Assurance IQ Acquisition Intrinsic Value Weighted Average Exercise Price Shares Weighted Average Contractual Term Remaining Weighted Average Exercise Price Intrinsic Value 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 368 425 Table of Contents (1) Performance share and performance unit awards reflect the target units awarded, reduced for forfeitures and releases to date. The actual number of units to be awarded at the end of each performance period will range between 0% and 125% of the target number of units granted, based upon a measure of the reported performance for the Company relative to stated goals. Performance awards granted to senior management in 2018 include a stated goal related to diversity & inclusion that can modify the performance result by - 10%. (1) Performance share awards related to the Assurance IQ acquisition reflect the maximum number of units that have been awarded under the terms of the acquisition. The actual number of units that will be awarded at the end of the performance period will range between 0% and 100% of the number of units granted, based upon a predetermined formula of achieving Variable Profits between 900 million and 1,300 million. Plan for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 191 million, 255 million and 238 million, respectively. The fair market value of restricted stock units for the Acquisition related awards under the Omnibus Incentive Plan for the year ended December 31, 2020 was 2 million. There were no vested restricted stock units or performance shares related to the Acquisition for the year ended December 31, 2019. ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 93.88, 93.35 and 106.32, respectively. The weighted average grant date fair value for performance shares and performance units granted under the Omnibus Incentive Plan during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 95.42, 90.68 and 81.55, respectively. The weighted average grant date fair value for restricted stock units granted for the Acquisition during the year ended December 31, 2019 was 87.67. No restricted units were granted in 2020. The weighted average grant date fair value for performance shares granted for the Acquisition during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were 63.30 and 89.81 respectively . Unrecognized Compensation Cost with a weighted average recognition period of 1.57 years. Unrecognized compensation cost for restricted stock units, performance shares and performance units under the Omnibus Incentive Plan as of December 31, 2020 was 153 million with a weighted average Restricted at December 31, 2019(2) 4,471,189 102.25 1,822,886 90.03 Restricted at December 31, 2020(2) 4,758,239 96.87 1,905,640 92.07 (2) Effective October 1, 2019, the Company modified existing performance share and performance unit awards to remove features of the grants that prevent having a mutual understanding of the key terms and conditions of the award between the employee and employer until the grants vested. Consequently, the weighted average grant date fair value as of December 31, 2020 is the closing stock price of Prudential Financial s common stock as of September 30, 2019. The weighted average grant date fair value as of December 31, 2018 is the closing stock price of Prudential Financial s common stock as of December 31, 2019. (3) Represents the difference between the target units granted and the actual units awarded based upon the attainment of performance goals for the Company. (2) Represents the difference between the target units granted and the actual units awarded based upon the attainment of performance goals for the Company. Restricted at December 31, 2019 125,788 87.67 1,982,708 89.81 Restricted at December 31, 2020 72,697 87.67 2,065,995 88.43 Granted(2) 1,922,202 93.88 671,994 95.42 Forfeited (197,399) 95.86 (16,118) 65.17 Performance adjustment(3) 49,485 95.43 Released (1,437,753) 109.73 (622,607) 90.23 Granted 0 0.00 112,949 63.30 Forfeited (20,222) 87.67 (29,662) 85.30 Performance adjustment(2) 0 0.00 0 0.00 Released (32,869) 87.67 0 0.00 A summary of the Company s restricted stock units and performance share awards related to the Acquisition is as follows: The fair market value of restricted stock units, performance shares and performance units released under the Omnibus Incentive The weighted average grant date fair value for restricted stock units granted under the Omnibus Incentive Plan during the years Unrecognized compensation cost for stock options under the Omnibus Incentive Plan as of December 31, 2020 was 3 million Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Restricted Restricted Date Fair Value Average Grant Date Fair Value Average Grant Unit Awards(1) Performance Performance Performance Share and Date Fair Value Average Grant Date Fair Value Average Grant 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 369 425 recognition period of 1.68 years. Unrecognized compensation cost for stock options related to the Acquisition as of December 31, 2020 was 30 million with a weighted average recognition period of 2.16 years. Unrecognized 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 370 425 Table of Contents compensation cost for restricted stock units and performance shares related to the Acquisition as of December 31, 2020 was 7 million with a weighted average recognition period of 3.23 years. Tax Benefits Realized December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 3 million, 5 million and 7 million, respectively. The tax benefit realized for exercises of stock options related to the Acquisition during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were 3 million and 2 million, respectively. Omnibus Incentive Plan for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 44 million, 52 million and 49 million, respectively. The tax benefit realized upon vesting of restricted stock units and performance shares related to the Acquisition during the year ended December 31, 2020 was 1 million. There were no vested restricted stock units or performance shares related to the Acquisition for the year ended December 31, 2019. Settlement of Awards restricted stock units and performance shares. The Company uses cash to settle performance units. The amount of cash used to settle performance units during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 2 million, 32 million and 29 million, respectively. 22. SEGMENT INFORMATION Segments Insurance, Individual Annuities, Individual Life, and Assurance IQ (collectively referred to as the U.S. Businesses) International Businesses and Closed Block. In addition, the Company reports certain of its results of operations in its Corporate and Other operations. estate debt and equity, private credit and other alternatives, and multi-asset class strategies, to institutional and retail clients globally, as well as the Company s general account. investment needs. The U.S. Businesses are organized into three divisions: segments. The Retirement segment provides a broad range of retirement investment and income products and services to retirement plan sponsors in the public, private and not-for-profit sectors. The Group Insurance segment provides a full range of group life, long- term and short-term group disability, and group corporate-, bank- and trust-owned life insurance in the U.S., primarily to institutional clients for use in connection with employee plans and affinity groups. Life segments. The Individual Annuities segment develops and distributes individual variable and fixed annuity products, primarily to the U.S. mass affluent and affluent markets. The Individual Life segment develops and distributes individual variable life, term life and universal life insurance products primarily to the U.S. mass middle, mass affluent and affluent markets. that offers a range of solutions to help meet consumers financial needs. Assurance IQ leverages data science and technology to primarily distribute third-party products (such as Medicare, health, life, property and casualty, and personal finance products) and a proprietary term life product directly to retail shoppers, primarily through its digital and agent channels. Additionally, Assurance IQ may help customers fulfill financial wellness needs by matching them with other product providers or intermediaries. The Company s tax benefit realized for exercises of stock options under the Omnibus Incentive Plan during the years ended The Company s tax benefit realized upon vesting of restricted stock units, performance shares and performance units under the The Company s policy is to issue shares from Common Stock held in treasury upon exercise of stock options, the release of The Company operates through eight segments: PGIM (our global investment management business) Retirement, Group The PGIM segment provides investment management services and solutions related to public fixed income, public equity, real The U.S. Businesses offer a broad range of products and solutions that cover protection, retirement, savings, income and U.S. Workplace Solutions division. The U.S. Workplace Solutions division consists of the Retirement and Group Insurance U.S. Individual Solutions division. The U.S. Individual Solutions division consists of the Individual Annuities and Individual Assurance IQ division. The Assurance IQ division consists of the Assurance IQ segment, a leading consumer solutions platform Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 371 425 Table of Contents affluent and affluent markets in Japan and other foreign countries through its Life Planner operations. In addition, similar products are offered through its Gibraltar Life and Other operations to the broad middle income and mass affluent markets across Japan and the Company s joint ventures in various foreign countries through multiple distribution channels (including banks, independent agencies and Life Consultants). are used for the payment of benefits, expenses and policyholders dividends related to these products, as well as certain related assets and liabilities. In connection with demutualization, the Company ceased offering these participating products. The Closed Block division is accounted for as a divested business that is reported separately from the Divested and Run-off Businesses that are included in the Company s Corporate and Other operations. See Note 15 for additional information on the Closed Block. not allocated to business segments, including debt-financed investment portfolios, and tax credit and other tax-enhanced investments financed by business segments (3) capital debt, including any related interest expense and financing costs, that is used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of the Company (4) our qualified and non-qualified pension and other employee benefit plans, after allocations to business segments (5) corporate-level activities, after allocations to business segments, including strategic expenditures, acquisition and disposition costs, corporate governance, corporate advertising, philanthropic activities, deferred compensation, costs related to certain contingencies and legal matters (6) expenses associated with the multi-year plan of programs that span across our businesses and the functional areas that support those businesses (7) certain retained obligations relating to pre- demutualization policyholders (8) impacts of risk management activities pursuant to our Risk Appetite Framework (9) the foreign currency income hedging program used to hedge certain non-U.S. dollar denominated earnings in our International Businesses segment (10) intercompany arrangements with our International Businesses and PGIM segments to translate non-U.S. dollar- denominated earnings at fixed currency exchange rates and (11) transactions with and between other segments, including the elimination of intercompany transactions for consolidation purposes. each segment include earnings on attributed equity established at a level which management considers necessary to support each segment s risks. Operating expenses specifically identifiable to a particular segment are allocated to that segment as incurred. Operating expenses not identifiable to a specific segment that are incurred in connection with the generation of segment revenues are generally allocated based upon the segment s historical percentage of general and administrative expenses. pronouncements, see Note 2. The segments results in prior years have been revised for these items, as applicable, to conform to the current year presentation. Adjusted Operating Income income does not equate to Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures or Net income (loss) as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP but is the measure of segment profit or loss used by the Company s chief operating decision maker to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources and, consistent with authoritative guidance, is the measure of segment performance presented below. Adjusted operating income is calculated by adjusting each segment s Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for the following items, which are described in greater detail below: Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net Market experience updates Divested and Run-off Businesses Other adjustments and Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests. The International Businesses develops and distributes individual life insurance, retirement and related products to the mass The Closed Block division includes certain in-force participating insurance and annuity products and corresponding assets that Corporate and Other Operations consists primarily of: (1) capital that is not deployed in any business segment (2) investments Segment Accounting Policies. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2. Results for For information related to significant acquisitions, see Note 1. For information related to the adoption of new accounting The Company analyzes the operating performance of each segment using adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 372 425 Table of Contents income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and the Company s definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. However, the Company believes that the presentation of adjusted operating income as measured for management purposes enhances the understanding of results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of its businesses. Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments Realized investment gains (losses), net Significant activity excluded from adjusted operating income includes impairments and credit-related gains (losses) from sales of securities, the timing of which depends largely on market credit cycles and can vary considerably across periods, and interest rate- related gains (losses) from sales of securities, which are largely subject to the Company s discretion and influenced by market opportunities, as well as the Company s tax and capital profile. Additionally, adjusted operating income excludes realized investment gains (losses) from products that contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an asset liability management program related to the risk of those products. While the Company has historically reflected the results of its variable annuities hedging programs in adjusted operating income over time, beginning with the second quarter of 2020 these impacts are excluded from adjusted operating income, which the Company believes enhances the understanding of underlying performance trends. adjusted operating income and, as a result, are reflected as adjustments to Realized investment gains (losses), net for purposes of calculating adjusted operating income: (1) In addition to the items in the table above, Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related charges and adjustments also includes an adjustment to reflect Realized investment gains (losses), net related to Divested and Run-off Businesses. See Divested and Run-off Businesses discussed below. intercompany arrangement between Corporate and Other operations and the International Businesses segment, pursuant to which the non-U.S. dollar-denominated earnings in all countries for a particular year, including its interim reporting periods, are translated at fixed currency exchange rates. The fixed rates are determined in connection with a currency hedging program designed to mitigate the risk that unfavorable rate changes will reduce the segment s U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings. Pursuant to this program, the Company s Corporate and Other operations may execute forward currency contracts with third-parties to sell the net exposure of projected earnings from the hedged currency in exchange for U.S. dollars at a specified exchange rate. The maturities of these contracts correspond with the future periods in which the identified non-U.S. dollar-denominated earnings are expected to be generated. These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP, so the resulting profits or losses are recorded in Realized investment gains (losses), net. When the contracts are terminated in the same period that the expected earnings emerge, the resulting positive or negative cash flow effect is included in adjusted operating income. 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Net gains (losses) from(1)(2): (2) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. Terminated hedges of foreign currency earnings 68 60 (14) Current period yield adjustments 364 326 369 Principal source of earnings 57 (37) 219 These items are important to an understanding of overall results of operations. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for Adjusted operating income excludes Realized investment gains (losses), net, except for certain items described below. The following table sets forth the significant components of Realized investment gains (losses), net that are included in Terminated Hedges of Foreign Currency Earnings. The amounts shown in the table above primarily reflect the impact of an Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Year Ended December 31, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 373 425 Table of Contents and currency exchange rate exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities, including duration mismatches. For derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the periodic swap settlements, as well as certain other derivative related yield adjustments are recorded in Realized investment gains (losses), net, and are included in adjusted operating income to reflect the after-hedge yield of the underlying instruments. In certain instances, when these derivative contracts are terminated or offset before their final maturity, the resulting realized gains or losses are recognized in adjusted operating income over periods that generally approximate the expected terms of the derivatives or underlying instruments in order for adjusted operating income to reflect the after-hedge yield of the underlying instruments. Included in the amounts shown in the table above are gains (losses) on certain derivative contracts that were terminated or offset before their final maturity of 41 million, 41 million and 19 million for the years ended 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, there was a 195 million deferred net gain related to certain derivative contracts that were terminated or offset before their final maturity, primarily in the International Businesses. Also included in the amounts shown in the table above are fees related to synthetic GICs of 139 million, 147 million and 146 million for the years ended 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Synthetic GICs are accounted for as derivatives under U.S. GAAP and, therefore, these fees are recorded in Realized investment gains (losses), net. See Note 5 for additional information on synthetic GICs. principal source of earnings for its businesses and are therefore included in adjusted operating income, particularly within the Company s PGIM segment. For example, PGIM s strategic investing business makes investments for sale or syndication to other investors or for placement or co-investment in the Company s managed funds and structured products. The realized investment gains (losses) associated with the sale of these strategic investments, as well as the majority of derivative results, are a principal activity for this business and included in adjusted operating income. In addition, the realized investment gains (losses) associated with loans originated by the Company s commercial mortgage operations, as well as related derivative results and retained mortgage servicing rights, are a principal activity for this business and are therefore included in adjusted operating income. Adjustments related to Realized investment gains (losses), net Realized investment gains (losses), net for purposes of calculating adjusted operating income: (1) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. that are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reported in Other income (loss). Examples include the Company s investments in equity securities and fixed maturities designated as trading. Consistent with the exclusion of realized investment gains (losses) with respect to other investments managed on a consistent basis, the net gains or losses on these investments are excluded from adjusted operating income. Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) Net gains (losses) from(1): (2) Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains (losses) on assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, related derivatives, and commercial mortgage and other loans. The activity for derivatives and commercial mortgage and other loans that support these experience-rated products are reported in Realized investment gains (losses), net and excluded from adjusted operating income. Investments carried at fair value through net income 163 490 (343) Foreign currency exchange movements 3 42 (270) Gains (losses), net, on experience-rated contracts (excluding derivatives and commercial mortgage and other loans)(2) 50 22 (153) Other activities (35) (32) (34) Current Period Yield Adjustments. The Company uses interest rate and currency swaps and other derivatives to manage interest Principal Source of Earnings. The Company conducts certain activities for which realized investment gains (losses) are a The following table sets forth certain other items excluded from adjusted operating income and reflected as an adjustment to Investments carried at fair value through net income. The Company has certain investments in its general account portfolios Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 374 425 Table of Contents changes in value, including those associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates during the period, are recorded in Other income (loss). To the extent the foreign currency exposure on these assets and liabilities is economically hedged or considered part of the Company s capital funding strategies for its international subsidiaries, the change in value included in Other income (loss) is excluded from adjusted operating income. The insurance liabilities are supported by investments denominated in corresponding currencies, including a significant portion designated as available-for-sale. While these non-yen denominated assets and liabilities are economically hedged, unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments, including those arising from foreign currency exchange rate movements, are recorded in AOCI under U.S. GAAP, while the non-yen denominated liabilities are remeasured for foreign currency exchange rate movements, with the related change in value recorded in earnings within Other income (loss). Due to this non-economic volatility that has been reflected in U.S. GAAP earnings, the change in value recorded within Other income (loss) is excluded from adjusted operating income. contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes. Certain products included in the Retirement and International Businesses segments are experience-rated in that investment results associated with these products are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. The majority of investments supporting these experience-rated products are carried at fair value, with realized and unrealized gains (losses) reported in Other income (loss) and the related interest and dividend income reported in Net investment income. To a lesser extent, these experience-rated products are also supported by derivatives and commercial mortgage and other loans. The derivatives are carried at fair value, with realized and unrealized gains (losses) reported in Realized investment gains (losses), net. The commercial mortgage and other loans are carried at unpaid principal, net of unamortized discounts and an allowance for losses, with gains (losses) on sales and changes in the valuation allowance for commercial mortgage and other loans reported in Realized investment gains (losses), net. liabilities, related derivatives and commercial mortgage and other loans. This is consistent with the exclusion of realized investment gains (losses) with respect to other investments supporting insurance liabilities managed on a consistent basis. In addition, to be consistent with the historical treatment of charges related to realized investment gains (losses) on investments, adjusted operating income also excludes the change in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments (including changes in the fair value of commercial mortgage and other loans) supporting these experience-rated contracts, which are reflected in Interest credited to policyholders account balances. The result of this approach is that adjusted operating income for these products includes net fee revenue and interest spread we earn on these experience-rated contracts, and excludes changes in fair value of the pool of investments, both realized and unrealized, that we expect will ultimately accrue to the contractholders. adjustments described above. Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net following: Market experience updates profitability in current period adjusted operating income. Beginning with the second quarter of 2019 these impacts are excluded from adjusted operating income, which the Company believes enhances the understanding of underlying performance The portion of the amortization of DAC, VOBA, unearned revenue reserves and DSI for certain products that is related to net realized investment gains (losses). Policyholder dividends and interest credited to policyholders account balances that relate to certain life policies that pass back certain realized investment gains (losses) to the policyholder, and reserves for future policy benefits for certain policies that are affected by net realized investment gains (losses). Market value adjustments paid or received upon a contractholder s surrender of certain of the Company s annuity products as these amounts mitigate the net realized investment gains or losses incurred upon the disposition of the underlying invested assets. Foreign Currency Exchange Movements. The Company has certain assets and liabilities for which, under U.S. GAAP, the Investment gains (losses) on assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities and changes in experience-rated Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains (losses) on assets supporting experience-rated contractholder Other Activities. The Company excludes certain other items from adjusted operating income that are consistent with similar Charges that relate to realized investment gains (losses) are also excluded from adjusted operating income, and include the The Company had historically recognized the immediate impacts from changes in current market conditions on estimates of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 375 425 Table of Contents trends. These amounts represent the impact of those changes on DAC and other costs and reserves, primarily related to variable annuity and variable and universal life products. Divested and Run-off Businesses businesses that have been placed in wind down, but that did not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP, are excluded from adjusted operating income as the results of Divested and Run-off Businesses are not considered relevant to understanding the Company s ongoing operating results. and annuity products that the Company ceased selling at demutualization in 2001. See Note 15 for further information on the Closed Block. Other adjustments components of the consideration for the Assurance IQ acquisition, which are recognized as compensation expense over the requisite service periods, as well as changes in the fair value of contingent consideration. Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests principal source of earnings. These earnings are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis on an after-tax basis as a separate line on the Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations. noncontrolling interests represents the portion of earnings from consolidated entities that relates to the equity interests of minority investors, and are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis as a separate line on the Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations. The contribution to income (loss) of Divested and Run-off Businesses that have been or will be sold or exited, including The Closed Block division is accounted for as a divested business because it consists primarily of certain participating insurance Other adjustments represent all other adjustments that are excluded from adjusted operating income. These include certain Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, on a pre-tax basis, are included in adjusted operating income as these results are a Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are excluded from adjusted operating income. Earnings attributable to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 376 425 Table of Contents Reconciliation of adjusted operating income and net income (loss) earnings of operating joint ventures: (1) Individual Annuities segment results reflect DAC as if the Individual Annuities business is a stand-alone operation. The elimination of intersegment costs capitalized in accordance with this policy is included in consolidating adjustments within Corporate and Other operations. (2) Assurance IQ was acquired by the Company in October 2019. See Note 1 for additional information. (3) Effective second quarter of 2020, the results of POK and the impact of its sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Effective third quarter of 2020, the results of POT and the impact of its anticipated sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. See Note 1 for additional information. (4) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. (5) Represents the immediate impacts in current period results from changes in current market conditions on estimates of profitability, which are excluded from adjusted operating income beginning with the second quarter of 2019. (6) Represents adjustments not included in the above reconciling items. Other adjustments include certain components of the consideration for the Assurance IQ acquisition, which are recognized as compensation expense over the requisite service periods, as well as changes in the fair value of contingent consideration. 2020 2019 2018 Adjusted operating income before income taxes by segment: Reconciling Items(3): Consolidated income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures (323) 5,085 4,834 PGIM 1,262 998 959 U.S. Businesses: International Businesses(3) 2,952 3,112 3,019 Corporate and Other (1,824) (1,766) (1,283) Year ended December 31, U.S. Workplace Solutions division: U.S. Individual Solutions division: Assurance IQ division(2): Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(4) (4,156) (835) 611 Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net (159) (123) (315) Market experience updates(5) (640) (449) 0 Divested and Run-off Businesses: Other adjustments(6) 51 (47) 0 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests 90 (103) (87) Total segment adjusted operating income before income taxes 5,144 5,851 6,121 The table below reconciles adjusted operating income before income taxes to income before income taxes and equity in Retirement 1,436 1,301 1,049 Group Insurance (16) 285 229 Individual Annuities(1) 1,470 1,843 1,925 Individual Life (48) 87 223 Assurance IQ (88) (9) 0 Closed Block division (24) 36 (62) Other Divested and Run-off Businesses (629) 755 (1,434) Total U.S. Workplace Solutions division 1,420 1,586 1,278 Total U.S. Individual Solutions division 1,422 1,930 2,148 Total Assurance IQ division (88) (9) 0 Total U.S. Businesses 2,754 3,507 3,426 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 377 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 378 425 Table of Contents Reconciliation of select financial information including assets by segment and revenues, and benefits and expenses by segment on an adjusted operating income basis, and the reconciliation of the segment totals to amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements. (1) Assurance IQ was acquired by the Company in October 2019. See Note 1 for additional information. (2) Effective second quarter of 2020, the carrying amount of assets of POK are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Effective third quarter of 2020, the carrying amount of assets of POT are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. See Note 1 for additional information. Assets by segment: Total assets per Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 940,722 896,552 PGIM 48,680 47,655 U.S. Businesses: International Businesses(2) 231,128 213,335 Corporate and Other(2) 25,124 44,619 Closed Block division 62,089 61,327 The tables below present certain financial information for the Company s segments and its Corporate and Other operations, U.S. Workplace Solutions division: U.S. Individual Solutions division: Assurance IQ division(1): Retirement 213,726 198,153 Group Insurance 45,601 43,712 Individual Annuities 200,718 189,040 Individual Life 110,953 96,072 Assurance IQ 2,703 2,639 Total U.S. Workplace Solutions division 259,327 241,865 Total U.S. Individual Solutions division 311,671 285,112 Total Assurance IQ division 2,703 2,639 Total U.S. Businesses 573,701 529,616 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. As of December 31, 2020 2019 (in millions) 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 379 425 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2020 Revenues, and benefits and expenses on an adjusted operating income basis by segment Reconciling items: Total revenue, and benefits and expenses per Consolidated Statements of Operations 57,033 17,410 57,356 35,059 4,538 1,625 1,574 2,221 PGIM 4,153 304 2,891 0 0 0 33 8 U.S. Businesses: International Businesses(2) 21,576 4,982 18,624 13,714 851 40 8 1,204 Corporate and Other(2) (629) 541 1,195 30 0 0 670 (49) U.S. Workplace Solutions division: U.S. Individual Solutions division: Assurance IQ division(1): Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments (3,463) (35) 693 0 693 0 0 0 Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net (134) 0 25 0 (58) 0 0 (116) Market experience updates(3) (196) 0 444 261 21 0 0 132 Divested and Run-off Businesses: Other adjustments(4) 105 0 54 0 0 0 0 0 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (138) 0 (228) 0 0 0 0 0 Total revenues, and benefits and expenses on an adjusted operating income basis 54,149 14,274 49,005 29,925 3,712 76 1,570 2,088 Retirement 12,034 4,707 10,598 8,010 1,470 0 23 26 Group Insurance 5,786 526 5,802 4,664 206 0 3 8 Individual Annuities 4,440 898 2,970 337 337 0 59 524 Individual Life 6,398 2,314 6,446 3,170 848 36 769 367 Assurance IQ 391 2 479 0 0 0 5 0 Closed Block division 4,766 2,240 4,790 2,757 127 1,549 1 26 Other Divested and Run-off Businesses(2) 1,944 931 2,573 2,116 43 0 3 91 Total U.S. Workplace Solutions division 17,820 5,233 16,400 12,674 1,676 0 26 34 Total U.S. Individual Solutions division 10,838 3,212 9,416 3,507 1,185 36 828 891 Total Assurance IQ division 391 2 479 0 0 0 5 0 Total U.S. Businesses 29,049 8,447 26,295 16,181 2,861 36 859 925 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Investment PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Policyholders (in millions) Policyholders Credited to Policyholders Dividends to Amortization 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 380 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 381 425 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2019 Revenues, and benefits and expenses on an adjusted operating income basis by segment PGIM 3,589 200 2,591 0 0 0 49 6 U.S. Businesses: International Businesses(2) 20,936 4,944 17,824 12,925 876 46 25 1,116 Corporate and Other(2) (677) 579 1,089 36 0 0 521 (46) Reconciling items(2): Total revenue, and benefits and expenses per Consolidated Statements of Operations 64,807 17,585 59,722 36,820 4,880 2,274 1,550 2,332 U.S. Workplace Solutions division: U.S. Individual Solutions division: Assurance IQ division(1): Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments 114 (36) 949 0 949 0 0 0 Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net (252) 0 (129) (136) (94) 0 0 (181) Market experience updates(3) (79) 0 370 191 4 0 0 139 Divested and Run-off Businesses: Other adjustments(4) (5) 0 42 0 0 0 0 0 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (146) 0 (43) 0 0 0 0 0 Total revenues, and benefits and expenses on an adjusted operating income basis 55,873 14,188 50,022 31,492 3,829 84 1,539 2,211 Retirement 15,064 4,738 13,763 11,061 1,503 0 46 38 Group Insurance 5,750 624 5,465 4,257 286 0 2 7 Individual Annuities 4,995 856 3,152 435 334 0 122 513 Individual Life 6,115 2,247 6,028 2,778 830 38 774 577 Assurance IQ 101 0 110 0 0 0 0 0 Closed Block division 5,642 2,323 5,606 2,907 130 2,187 7 29 Other Divested and Run-off Businesses 3,660 1,110 2,905 2,366 62 3 4 134 Total U.S. Workplace Solutions division 20,814 5,362 19,228 15,318 1,789 0 48 45 Total U.S. Individual Solutions division 11,110 3,103 9,180 3,213 1,164 38 896 1,090 Total Assurance IQ division 101 0 110 0 0 0 0 0 Total U.S. Businesses 32,025 8,465 28,518 18,531 2,953 38 944 1,135 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Investment PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Policyholders (in millions) Policyholders Credited to Policyholders Dividends to Amortization 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 382 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 383 425 Table of Contents (1) Assurance IQ was acquired by the Company in October 2019. See Note 1 for additional information. (2) Effective second quarter of 2020, the results of POK and the impact of its sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Effective third quarter of 2020, the results of POT and the impact of its anticipated sale are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. See Note 1 for additional information. (3) Represents the immediate impacts in current period results from changes in current market conditions on estimates of profitability, which are excluded from adjusted operating income beginning with the second quarter of 2019. The Company had historically recognized these impacts in adjusted operating income. Year Ended December 31, 2018 Revenues, and benefits and expenses on an adjusted operating income basis by segment PGIM 3,294 73 2,335 0 0 0 40 8 U.S. Businesses: International Businesses(2) 20,058 4,642 17,039 12,453 867 59 21 1,121 Corporate and Other(2) (705) 452 578 (12) 0 0 535 (44) Reconciling items(2): Total revenue, and benefits and expenses per Consolidated Statements of Operations 62,992 16,176 58,158 39,404 3,196 1,336 1,420 2,273 U.S. Workplace Solutions division: U.S. Individual Solutions division: Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(5) (99) (41) (710) 0 (710) 0 0 0 Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net (273) 0 42 (75) 40 0 0 118 Divested and Run-off Businesses: Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (103) 0 (16) 0 0 0 0 0 Total revenues, and benefits and expenses on an adjusted operating income basis 55,954 12,887 49,833 32,756 3,680 96 1,414 2,002 Retirement 16,825 4,377 15,776 13,215 1,430 0 35 33 Group Insurance 5,685 616 5,456 4,241 282 0 2 5 Individual Annuities 4,966 694 3,041 370 335 0 67 511 Individual Life 5,831 2,033 5,608 2,489 766 37 714 368 Closed Block division 4,678 2,288 4,740 2,972 132 1,236 2 35 Other Divested and Run-off Businesses 2,835 1,042 4,269 3,751 54 4 4 118 Total U.S. Workplace Solutions division 22,510 4,993 21,232 17,456 1,712 0 37 38 Total U.S. Individual Solutions division 10,797 2,727 8,649 2,859 1,101 37 781 879 Total U.S. Businesses 33,307 7,720 29,881 20,315 2,813 37 818 917 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Investment PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Policyholders (in millions) Policyholders Credited to Policyholders Dividends to Amortization 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 384 425 (4) Represents adjustments not included in the above reconciling items. Other adjustments include certain components of the consideration for the Assurance IQ acquisition, which are recognized as compensation expense over the requisite service periods, as well as changes in the fair value of contingent consideration. (5) Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 385 425 Intersegment Revenues Asset management and service fees Table of Contents the Company s foreign and domestic operations: (1) Revenues related to POK until sold in August 2020. consolidation in Corporate and Other operations. The PGIM segment revenues include intersegment revenues, primarily consisting of asset-based management and administration fees, for the years ended December 31, as follows: accounts for the internal derivative results consistent with the manner in which that segment accounts for other similar external derivatives. the periods indicated: 23. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Commitments and Guarantees Commercial Mortgage Loan Commitments loans that will be held for sale are recognized as derivatives and recorded at fair value. In certain of these transactions, the Company pre-arranges that it will sell the loan to an investor, including to government sponsored entities as discussed below, after the Company funds the loan. The above amount includes unfunded commitments that are not unconditionally cancellable. For related credit exposure, there was an allowance for credit losses of 0 million as of December 31, 2020, which is a change of (2) million for the year ended December 31, 2020. (in millions) Domestic operations 34,921 40,868 40,603 Foreign operations, total 22,112 23,939 22,389 Foreign operations, Japan 19,864 19,626 19,125 Foreign operations, Korea(1) 364 1,638 1,495 (in millions) PGIM segment intersegment revenues 866 777 731 December 31, (in millions) Total outstanding mortgage loan commitments 2,357 2,129 Portion of commitment where prearrangement to sell to investor exists 882 751 (in millions) Asset-based management fees 3,615 3,489 3,438 Performance-based incentive fees 193 169 56 Other fees 583 581 606 Revenues, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, for the years ended December 31, include the following associated with Management has determined the intersegment revenues with reference to market rates. Intersegment revenues are eliminated in Segments may also enter into internal derivative contracts with other segments. For adjusted operating income, each segment The table below presents asset management and service fees, predominantly related to an investment management activities, for In connection with the Company s commercial mortgage operations, it originates commercial mortgage loans. Commitments for Total asset management and service fees 4,391 4,239 4,100 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 386 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 387 425 Table of Contents Commitments to Purchase Investments (excluding Commercial Mortgage Loans) circumstances not under the Company s control, including those at the discretion of the Company s counterparties. The Company anticipates a portion of these commitments will ultimately be funded from its separate accounts. The above amount includes unfunded commitments that are not unconditionally cancellable. There were no related charges for credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2020. Indemnification of Securities Lending and Securities Repurchase Transactions (1) Includes 34 million and 38 million related to securities repurchase transactions as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (2) Includes 34 million and 37 million related to securities repurchase transactions as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. of certain client accounts (collectively, the accounts ). In certain of these arrangements, the Company has provided an indemnification to the accounts to hold them harmless against losses caused by counterparty (i.e., borrower) defaults associated with such transactions facilitated by the Company. In securities lending transactions, collateral is provided by the counterparty to the accounts at the inception of the transaction in an amount at least equal to 102% of the fair value of the loaned securities and the collateral is maintained daily to equal at least 102% of the fair value of the loaned securities. In securities repurchase transactions, collateral is provided by the counterparty to the accounts at the inception of the transaction in an amount at least equal to 95% of the fair value of the securities subject to repurchase and the collateral is maintained daily to equal at least 95% of the fair value of the securities subject to repurchase. The Company is only at risk if the counterparty to the transaction defaults and the value of the collateral held is less than the value of the securities loaned to, or subject to repurchase from, such counterparty. The Company believes the possibility of any payments under these indemnities is remote. Credit Derivatives Written counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the defaulted security or similar security. Guarantees of Asset Values guaranteed party. These contracts are accounted for as derivatives and carried at fair value. The collateral supporting these guarantees is not reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. December 31, (in millions) Expected to be funded from the general account and other operations outside the separate accounts 9,567 7,372 Expected to be funded from separate accounts 336 49 December 31, (in millions) Indemnification provided to certain clients for securities lending and securities repurchase transactions(1) 7,108 5,071 Fair value of related collateral associated with above indemnifications(2) 7,254 5,204 Accrued liability associated with guarantee 0 0 December 31, (in millions) Guaranteed value of third parties assets 86,264 80,009 Fair value of collateral supporting these assets 90,612 81,604 Asset (liability) associated with guarantee, carried at fair value 0 1 The Company has other commitments to purchase or fund investments, some of which are contingent upon events or In the normal course of business, the Company may facilitate securities lending or securities repurchase transactions on behalf As discussed further in Note 5, the Company writes credit derivatives under which the Company is obligated to pay the Certain contracts underwritten by the Retirement segment include guarantees related to financial assets owned by the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 388 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 389 425 Table of Contents Indemnification of Serviced Mortgage Loans (1) As of December 31, 2020, the accrued liability associated with guarantees includes an allowance for credit losses of 20 million, which is a change of 1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. origination, underwriting and servicing for certain government sponsored entities, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The Company has agreed to indemnify the government sponsored entities for a portion of the credit risk associated with certain of the mortgages it services through a delegated authority arrangement. Under these arrangements, the Company originates multi-family mortgages for sale to the government sponsored entities based on underwriting standards they specify, and makes payments to them for a specified percentage share of losses they incur on certain loans serviced by the Company. The Company s percentage share of losses incurred generally varies from 4% to 20% of the loan balance, and is typically based on a first-loss exposure for a stated percentage of the loan balance, plus a shared exposure with the government sponsored entity for any losses in excess of the stated first-loss percentage, subject to a contractually specified maximum percentage. The Company determines the liability related to this exposure using historical loss experience, and the size and remaining life of the asset. The Company serviced 21,465 million and 16,878 million of mortgages subject to these loss-sharing arrangements as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, all of which are collateralized by first priority liens on the underlying multi-family residential properties. As of December 31, 2020, these mortgages had a weighted-average debt service coverage ratio of 1.99 times and a weighted-average loan-to-value ratio of 63%. As of December 31, 2019, these mortgages had a weighted-average debt service coverage ratio of 1.88 times and a weighted-average loan-to-value ratio of 61%. The Company had no losses related to indemnifications that were settled for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018. Other Guarantees and guarantees related to acquisitions, dispositions, investments and other transactions that are triggered by, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by the Company. These obligations are typically subject to various time limitations, defined by the contract or by operation of law, such as statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation is subject to contractual limitations, while in other cases such limitations are not specified or applicable. Included above are 9 million and 12 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, of yield maintenance guarantees related to certain investments the Company sold. The Company does not expect to make any payments on these guarantees and is not carrying any liabilities associated with these guarantees. due under these guarantees. The accrued liabilities identified above do not include retained liabilities associated with sold businesses. Insolvency Assessments jurisdiction to participate in guarantee associations, which are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover December 31, (in millions) Maximum exposure under indemnification agreements for mortgage loans serviced by the Company 2,684 2,113 First-loss exposure portion of above 784 622 Accrued liability associated with guarantees(1) 41 19 December 31, (in millions) Other guarantees where amount can be determined 52 55 Accrued liability for other guarantees and indemnifications 0 0 As part of the commercial mortgage activities of the Company s PGIM segment, the Company provides commercial mortgage The Company is also subject to other financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements. The Company has provided indemnities Since certain of these obligations are not subject to limitations, it is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to transact business require insurers doing business within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 390 425 Table of Contents assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. In addition, Japan has established the Japan Policyholders Protection Corporation as a contingency to protect policyholders against the insolvency of life insurance companies in Japan through assessments to companies licensed to provide life insurance. Contingent Liabilities customer interface procedures and practices, and procedures for meeting obligations to its customers and other parties. These reviews may result in the modification or enhancement of processes or the imposition of other action plans, including concerning management oversight, sales and other customer interface procedures and practices, and the timing or computation of payments to customers and other parties. In certain cases, if appropriate, the Company may offer customers or other parties remediation and may incur charges, including the cost of such remediation, administrative costs and regulatory fines. escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned funds, and is subject to audit and examination for compliance with these requirements. For additional discussion of these matters, see Litigation and Regulatory Matters below. materially affected as a result of payments in connection with the matters discussed above or other matters depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash flow for such period. Management believes, however, that ultimate payments in connection with these matters, after consideration of applicable reserves and rights to indemnification, should not have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position. Litigation and Regulatory Matters actions include proceedings relating to aspects of the Company s businesses and operations that are specific to it and proceedings that are typical of the businesses in which it operates, including in both cases businesses that have been either divested or placed in wind down status. Some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. In certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. The outcome of litigation or a regulatory matter, and the amount or range of potential loss at any particular time, is often inherently uncertain. amount of that loss can be reasonably estimated. For litigation and regulatory matters where a loss may be reasonably possible, but not probable, or is probable but not reasonably estimable, no accrual is established but the matter, if potentially material, is disclosed, including matters discussed below. The Company estimates that as of December 31, 2020, the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses in excess of accruals established for those litigation and regulatory matters for which such an estimate currently can be made is less than 250 million. Any estimate is not an indication of expected loss, if any, or the Company s maximum possible loss exposure on such matters. The Company reviews relevant information with respect to its litigation and regulatory matters on a quarterly and annual basis and updates its accruals, disclosures and estimates of reasonably possible loss based on such reviews. Labor and Employment Matters December 31, (in millions) Other assets: Other liabilities: Premium tax offset for future undiscounted assessments 44 48 Premium tax offset currently available for paid assessments 3 3 Insolvency assessments 36 37 Assets and liabilities held for insolvency assessments were as follows: On an ongoing basis, the Company and its regulators review its operations including, but not limited to, sales and other The Company is subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions concerning the identification, reporting and It is possible that the results of operations or the cash flow of the Company in a particular quarterly or annual period could be The Company is subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of its businesses. Pending legal and regulatory The Company establishes accruals for litigation and regulatory matters when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the Total 47 51 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 391 425 Table of Contents Prudential of Brazil Labor and Employment Matters engaged as independent life insurance brokers and not as employees. When a Life Planner s contractual relationship with POB is terminated, in many cases the Life Planner commences a labor suit against POB alleging entitlement to employment related benefits. POB is a defendant in numerous such lawsuits in Brazil brought by former Life Planners and has been subject to regulatory actions challenging the validity of POB s franchise model. POB has continued to receive additional labor suits and regulatory actions involving the operation of its franchise model notwithstanding steps that POB has taken to attempt to mitigate the labor risk by modifying its franchise model. POB continues to modify its franchise model to further mitigate this risk. Individual Annuities, Individual Life and Group Insurance Broderick v. The Prudential Insurance Company of America, et al. Company of America, et al., was filed in the Superior Court of New Jersey, Law Division - Essex County. The complaint: (i) alleges that defendants terminated plaintiffs employment for engaging in whistleblowing conduct involving the sale of MyTerm policies through Wells Fargo and violated New Jersey s Conscientious Employee Protection Act and (ii) seeks back and front pay, compensatory and punitive damages and attorneys fees and costs. In January 2017, defendants filed an answer to the complaint. In December 2019, the court granted the Company s summary judgment motion and dismissed the complaint. In September 2020, the parties filed a Joint Stipulation of Dismissal with Prejudice. This matter is now closed. Behfarin v. Pruco Life United States District Court for the Central District of California, alleging that the Company imposes charges on owners of universal life policies to cure defaults and or reinstate lapses, that are inconsistent with the applicable universal life policy. The complaint includes claims for breach of contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and violation of California law, and seeks unspecified damages along with declaratory and injunctive relief. In September 2017, the Company filed its answer to the complaint. In September 2018, plaintiff filed a motion for class certification. In October 2019, plaintiff filed: (1) the First Amended Complaint adding Prudential Insurance Company of America and Pruco Life Insurance Company of New Jersey as defendants and (2) a motion seeking preliminary certification of a settlement class, appointment of a class representative and class counsel, and preliminary approval of the proposed class action settlement. In November 2019, the court issued an order granting the motion for preliminary approval of the settlement. In June 2020, the court issued an order: (i) granting plaintiffs motion for certification of the settlement class (ii) approving the proposed nationwide class settlement agreement (iii) approving the class notice (iv) awarding attorneys fees and costs to plaintiffs and a reduced incentive award to Behfarin and (v) dismissing the action with prejudice, but maintaining jurisdiction over the settlement. Escheatment Litigation Total Asset Recovery Services, LLC v. MetLife, Inc., et al., Prudential Financial, Inc., The Prudential Insurance Company of America, and Prudential Insurance Agency, LLC Complaint in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York, against, among other 19 defendants, Prudential Financial, Inc., The Prudential Insurance Company of America and Prudential Insurance Agency, LLC, alleging that the Company failed to escheat life insurance proceeds in violation of the New York False Claims Act. The second amended complaint seeks injunctive relief, compensatory damages, civil penalties, treble damages, prejudgment interest, attorneys fees and costs. In May 2018, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the Second Amended Complaint. In April 2019, defendants motion to dismiss the Second Amended Complaint was granted and plaintiff subsequently filed a Notice of Appeal with the New York State Supreme Court, First Department. In December 2020, the New York Supreme Court, First Department, reversed and vacated the judgment of the trial court and granted leave to plaintiff to file a third amended complaint. Securities Litigation City of Warren v. PFI, et al. Prudential of Brazil ( POB ) sells insurance products to consumers through life planner franchisees ( Life Planners ), who are In December 2016, a complaint entitled Julie Han Broderick, Darron Smith and Thomas Schreck v. The Prudential Insurance In July 2017, a putative class action complaint entitled Richard Behfarin v. Pruco Life Insurance Company was filed in the In December 2017, Total Asset Recovery Services, LLC, on behalf of the State of New York, filed a Second Amended Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 392 425 Table of Contents Financial, Inc., Charles F. Lowrey and Kenneth Y. Tanji, was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. The complaint asserts claims for federal securities law violations against PFI, and Charles Lowrey, PFI s chief executive officer, and Kenneth Tanji, PFI s chief financial officer, individually, and alleges that: (i) the Company's reserve assumptions failed to account for adversely developing mortality experience in the Individual Life business segment (ii) the Company's reserves were insufficient to satisfy its future policy benefit liabilities and (iii) the Company materially understated its liabilities and overstated net income due to flawed assumptions in calculating mortality experience. The putative class includes all purchasers of PFI common stock between February 15, 2019 and August 2, 2019. In March 2020, the court issued an order consolidating this action with Donald P. Crawford v. PFI, et al. under the caption In re Prudential Financial, Inc. Securities Litigation. In June 2020, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint and added Robert M. Falzon, PFI s vice chairman, as an individual defendant. In August 2020, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. In December 2020, the court issued an order granting defendants motion to dismiss the amended complaint with prejudice and plaintiff subsequently filed, in January 2021, a Notice of Appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Donald P. Crawford v. PFI, et al. Kenneth Tanji, was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. The complaint asserts claims for federal securities law violations against PFI, and Charles Lowrey and Kenneth Tanji, individually, and alleges that: (i) the Company s reserve assumptions failed to account for adversely developing mortality experience in the Individual Life business segment (ii) the Company s reserves were insufficient to satisfy its future policy benefit liabilities and (iii) the Company materially understated its liabilities and overstated net income due to flawed assumptions in calculating mortality experience. The putative class includes all purchasers of PFI common stock between February 15, 2019 and August 2, 2019. In March 2020, the court issued an order consolidating this action with City of Warren v. PFI, et al. under the caption In re Prudential Financial, Inc. Securities Litigation. Case updates are consolidated with the City of Warren action. Donel Davidson v. Charles F. Lowrey, et al. Prudential Financial, Inc. v. Charles F. Lowrey, et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey (the Derivative Complaint ) against PFI as a nominal defendant, PFI s chairman and chief executive officer, vice chairman, chief financial officer, certain former officers of PFI, and all of the current outside directors of PFI s Board. The Derivative Complaint asserts claims for federal securities law violations, breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment, and alleges that: (i) the Company's reserve assumptions failed to account for adversely developing mortality experience in the Individual Life business segment (ii) the Company's reserves were insufficient to satisfy its future policy benefit liabilities (iii) the Company materially understated its liabilities and overstated net income due to flawed assumptions in calculating mortality experience and (iv) the individual defendants breached their duty of care and loyalty to the Company by allowing the alleged improper activity. In December 2020, the Court issued an order substituting Donel Davidson for Pekin Police Pension Fund as the named plaintiff. Daniel Plaut v. Prudential Financial, Inc. v. Charles F. Lowrey, et al., was filed in the Superior Court of New Jersey, Law Division, Essex County (the Derivative Complaint ) against PFI as a nominal defendant, PFI s chairman and chief executive officer, vice chairman, and all of the current outside directors of PFI s Board. The Derivative Complaint asserts claims for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, and abuse of control and alleges that: (i) the Company's reserve assumptions failed to account for adversely developing mortality experience in the Individual Life business segment (ii) the Company's reserves were insufficient to satisfy its future policy benefit liabilities (iii) the Company materially understated its liabilities and overstated net income due to flawed assumptions in calculating mortality experience and (iv) the individual defendants engaged in corporate misconduct, mismanagement and waste through their participation in the alleged wrongdoing. Robert Lalor v. Charles F. Lowrey, et al. Financial, Inc. v. Charles F. Lowrey, et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey (the Derivative Complaint ) against PFI as a nominal defendant, PFI s chairman and chief executive officer, vice chairman, chief financial officer, certain former officers of PFI, and all of the current outside directors of PFI s Board. The Derivative Complaint asserts claims for federal securities law violations, breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, and unjust In November 2019, a putative class action complaint entitled City of Warren Police and Fire Retirement System v. Prudential In January 2020, a putative class action complaint entitled David P. Crawford v. Prudential Financial, Charles F. Lowrey and In September 2020, a shareholder derivative complaint entitled Pekin Police Pension Fund, Derivatively on Behalf of In October 2020, a shareholder derivative complaint entitled Daniel Plaut, Derivatively on Behalf of Prudential Financial, Inc. In November 2020, a verified shareholder derivative complaint entitled Robert Lalor, derivatively on behalf of Prudential Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 393 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 394 425 Table of Contents enrichment, and alleges that: (i) the Company's reserve assumptions failed to account for adversely developing mortality experience in the Individual Life business segment (ii) the Company's reserves were insufficient to satisfy its future policy benefit liabilities (iii) the Company materially understated its liabilities and overstated net income due to flawed assumptions in calculating mortality experience and (iv) the individual defendants had irreconcilable conflicts of interest and breached their duties of candor, loyalty, oversight and supervision. Shareholder Demands to those alleged in the City of Warren and Crawford complaints and (ii) that certain of the Company s current and former directors and executive officers breached their fiduciary duties of loyalty, due care and candor. The demand letter requests that the Board of Directors investigate and commence legal proceedings against the named individuals to recover for the Company s benefit the damages purportedly sustained by the Company as a result of the alleged breaches. In February 2020, the Board of Directors authorized the creation of a special committee to investigate the allegations set forth in the shareholder demand letter. In April 2020, the Company received additional shareholder demands raising allegations similar to those contained in the January 2020 demand, and may be subject prospectively to additional activity relating to these matters. In January 2021, the special committee completed its investigation, and in February 2021, the Board provided notice rejecting the shareholder demands and dissolved the special committee. Other Matters Cho v. PICA, et al. filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. The Complaint purports to be brought on behalf of participants in the Prudential Employee Savings Plan (the Plan ) and (i) alleges that Defendants failed to fulfill their fiduciary obligations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, in the administration, management and operation of the Plan, including engaging in prohibited transactions and (ii) seeks declaratory, injunctive and equitable relief, and unspecified damages including interest, attorneys fees and costs. In January 2020, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. In September 2020, plaintiff filed an amended complaint and added as individual defendants certain PFI officers and current and former members of the Company s Administrative Committee and Investment Oversight Committee. In December 2020, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. Doyle C. Stone v. PFI, et al. Company, was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. The complaint asserts claims against Prudential Financial, Inc. and Pruco Life Insurance Company for violation of the New Jersey Consumer Fraud Act, breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of implied duty of good faith and fair dealing, misrepresentation and unjust enrichment, based on: (i) the Company s alleged deficient identification, notification and payment practices for retirement plan participants in transferred group retirement, annuity and insurance plans ( Plan Participants ) and (ii) improper transfer of Plan Participant funds to its own accounts. The putative class includes all Plan Participants from January 2015 to the present. LIBOR Litigation Prudential Investment Portfolios 2, f k a Dryden Core Investment Fund, o b o Prudential Core Short-Term Bond Fund and Prudential Core Taxable Money Market Fund v. Bank of America Corporation, et al. Core Taxable Money Market Fund (the Funds ), filed an action against ten banks in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey asserting that the banks participated in the setting of LIBOR, a major benchmark interest rate. The complaint alleges that the defendant banks manipulated LIBOR, and asserts, among other things, claims for common law fraud, negligent misrepresentation, breach of contract, intentional interference with contract and with prospective economic relations, unjust enrichment, breaches of the New Jersey Civil RICO ( Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ) statute, and violations of the Sherman Act. In June 2014, the United States Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation transferred the action to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, where it has been consolidated for pre-trial purposes with other pending LIBOR-related actions. In October 2014, the Funds filed an amended complaint. In November 2014, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. In August 2015, the court issued a decision granting in In January 2020, the Board of Directors received a shareholder demand letter containing allegations: (i) of wrongdoing similar In November 2019, a putative class action complaint entitled Cho v. The Prudential Insurance Company of America, et. al., was In February 2021, a putative class action complaint entitled Doyle C. Stone v. Prudential Financial, Inc., Pruco Life Insurance In May 2014, Prudential Investment Portfolios 2, on behalf of the Prudential Core Short-Term Bond Fund and the Prudential Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 395 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 396 425 Table of Contents part, and denying in part, defendants' motions to dismiss. The court dismissed certain of the Funds' claims, including those alleging fraud based on offering material statements New Jersey RICO and express breach of contract. The court upheld certain of the Funds' claims, including those alleging fraud based on false LIBOR submissions to the British Bankers Association negligent misrepresentation unjust enrichment and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Following the August 2015 decision, granting in part defendants' motions to dismiss, in September 2015, Prudential filed the following LIBOR complaints: (i) in the Southern District of New York, captioned Prudential Investment Portfolios 2 et al. v. Barclays Bank PLC, et al. (the New York Complaint ), naming as defendants Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays Capital Inc., Barclays PLC, Citibank, N.A., Citigroup Funding Inc., Credit Suisse AG, Credit Suisse Group AG, Credit Suisse (USA) Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Holdings PLC, JPMorgan Chase & Co., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Royal Bank of Canada, and The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC. These defendants were dismissed from the original LIBOR action on jurisdictional grounds. The New York complaint reasserts the causes of action brought in the original LIBOR action and (ii) in the Western district of North Carolina, captioned Prudential Investment Portfolios 2 et al. v. Bank of America Corporation et al. (the North Carolina Complaint ), naming as defendants Bank of America Corporation and Bank of America, N.A. These defendants were dismissed from the original LIBOR action on jurisdictional grounds. The North Carolina Complaint reasserts the causes of action brought in the original LIBOR action. Both the New York Complaint and the North Carolina Complaint have been transferred for pre-trial purposes to the LIBOR multi-district litigation presided over by Judge Buchwald in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. In May 2016, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals vacated the district court s dismissal of the LIBOR plaintiffs antitrust claims and remanded to the district court the question of whether plaintiffs possess standing as efficient enforcers of applicable antitrust laws. In July 2016, defendants filed a joint motion to dismiss all antitrust claims based on lack of standing and lack of personal jurisdiction. In December 2016, the motion was granted in part and denied in part. In January 2017, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants petition for certiorari. In February 2017, the court clarified its December 2016 order, holding that antitrust claims only exist against panel banks, not their affiliates. This clarification resulted in the Funds New Jersey antitrust claims being dismissed for lack of personal jurisdiction. The Funds antitrust claims in the New York and North Carolina actions remain pending. In July 2017, the Funds obtained an entry of judgment on the New Jersey antitrust claims dismissed on personal jurisdiction grounds. In July 2017, the Funds filed with the Second Circuit Court an appeal from the dismissal of their New Jersey anti-trust claims. In June 2019, the court issued two orders approving stipulations dismissing with prejudice Prudential s claims against Citigroup Inc., Citibank, N.A., Citigroup Funding Inc., and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. In December 2019, the court issued two orders approving stipulations dismissing with prejudice Prudential s claims against HSBC Holdings PLC, HSBC Bank PLC, HSBC Finance Corp., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., and HSBC USA Inc. In May 2020, the court issued two orders approving stipulations dismissing with prejudice Prudential s claims against Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays Capital Inc., and Barclays PLC. In August 2020, the court issued two orders approving stipulations dismissing with prejudice, Prudential s claims against Deutsche Bank AG. In October 2020, the court issued orders approving stipulations dismissing with prejudice, Prudential s claims against JPMorgan Chase & Co., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, f k a J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Bank of America Corporation, Bank of America, N.A., and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc., f k a Banc of America Securities LLC. Summary outcome cannot be predicted. It is possible that the Company s results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation and regulatory matters depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash flow for such period. In light of the unpredictability of the Company s litigation and regulatory matters, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position. Management believes, however, that, based on information currently known to it, the ultimate outcome of all pending litigation and regulatory matters, after consideration of applicable reserves and rights to indemnification, is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position. 24. QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED) The Company s litigation and regulatory matters are subject to many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their The unaudited quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are summarized in the table Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 397 425 Table of Contents (1) Quarterly earnings per share amounts may not add to the full year amounts due to the averaging of shares. 25. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Common Stock Dividend Declaration payable on March 11, 2021 to shareholders of record as of February 16, 2021. Shareholder Distributions discretion, up to 1.5 billion of its outstanding Common Stock during the period from January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021. Three Months Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 (in millions, except per share amounts) 2020 Total revenues 13,464 12,115 15,425 16,029 Total benefits and expenses 13,802 14,447 13,978 15,129 Net income (loss) (270) (2,405) 1,507 1,022 Less: Income attributable to noncontrolling interests 1 4 20 203 Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. (271) (2,409) 1,487 819 Basic earnings per share Common Stock(1): Diluted earnings per share Common Stock(1): 2019 Total revenues 15,091 15,388 15,105 19,223 Total benefits and expenses 13,951 14,512 13,380 17,879 Net income (loss) 937 738 1,425 1,138 Less: Income attributable to noncontrolling interests 5 30 7 10 Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. 932 708 1,418 1,128 Basic earnings per share Common Stock(1): Diluted earnings per share Common Stock(1): Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. (0.70) (6.12) 3.72 2.04 Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. (0.70) (6.12) 3.70 2.03 Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. 2.25 1.73 3.47 2.78 Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. 2.22 1.71 3.44 2.76 On February 4, 2021, Prudential Financial s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of 1.15 per share of Common Stock, On February 4, 2021, Prudential Financial s Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase, at management s Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 398 425 Table of Contents ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020 are included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. reported on a timely basis, the Company s management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have reviewed and evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e), as of December 31, 2020. Based on such evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of December 31, 2020, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. No change in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f), occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2020, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Information About our Executive Officers. Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and our Principal Accounting Officer, as well as to our directors and all other employees. Making the Right Choices is posted on our website at www.investor.prudential.com. Our code of business conduct and ethics, any amendments and any waiver granted to any of our directors or executive officers are available free of charge on our website at www.investor.prudential.com. and Practices. Our Corporate Governance Principles and Practices are available free of charge on our website at www.investor.prudential.com. Prudential Financial s definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 11, 2021, to be filed by Prudential Financial with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31, 2020 (the Proxy Statement ). ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Statement. ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED equity compensation plans. All outstanding awards relate to Prudential Financial s Common Stock. For additional information about our equity compensation plans, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and the report of the Company s independent In order to ensure that the information we must disclose in our filings with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized, and The information called for by this Item pertaining to executive officers of Prudential Financial appears in Business We have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics, known as Making the Right Choices, which applies to our Chief In addition, we have adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, which we refer to as our Corporate Governance Principles Certain of the information called for by this item is hereby incorporated herein by reference to the relevant portions of The information called for by this item is hereby incorporated herein by reference to the relevant portions of the Proxy The following table provides information as of December 31, 2020, regarding securities authorized for issuance under our DISCLOSURE STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 399 425 Table of Contents (1) Represents 4,958,118 outstanding Options, 4,830,936 outstanding Restricted Units and 3,945,557 outstanding Performance Shares as of December 31, 2020 under our Omnibus Plan, including those granted as part of the Assurance IQ acquisition. The number of Performance Shares represents the number of shares that would be received based on maximum performance, reduced for cancellations and releases through December 31, 2020. The actual number of shares the Compensation Committee will award at the end of each performance period will range between 0% and 125% (between 0% and 100% for the performance shares related to the Assurance IQ acquisition) of the target number of units granted, based upon a measure of the reported performance of the Company relative to stated goals. Performance awards granted to senior management in 2018 include a stated goal related to diversity & inclusion that can modify the performance result by - 10%. The outstanding Performance Units will be settled only in cash and do not reduce the number of shares authorized under the Omnibus Plan, and so they are not reflected in this table. (2) Represents the weighted average exercise price of the Options disclosed in column (a). The weighted average remaining contractual term of these Options is 4.71 years. (3) The Prudential Financial, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan is a qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan under Section 423 of the Code, pursuant to which up to 26,367,235 shares of Common Stock were authorized for issuance, all of which have been registered on Form S-8. Under the plan, employees may purchase shares based upon quarterly offering periods at an amount equal to the lesser of (1) 85% of the closing market price of the Common Stock on the first day of the quarterly offering period, or (2) 85% of the closing market price of the Common Stock on the last day of the quarterly offering period. Statement. ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE Statement. Equity compensation plans approved by security holders Omnibus Plan 13,734,611 (1) 74.88 (2) 9,906,113 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders Director Plan 134,799 0 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders PSPP(3) 0 8,650,015 Total equity compensation plans approved by security holders 13,869,410 18,556,128 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 0 0 Grand Total 13,869,410 18,556,128 The other information called for by this item is hereby incorporated herein by reference to the relevant portions of the Proxy The information called for by this item is hereby incorporated herein by reference to the relevant portions of the Proxy Number of securities outstanding options, warrants and rights to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights Weighted-average exercise price of Number of securities remaining available for future issuance compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in (a)) under equity 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 400 425 Table of Contents ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES Statement. ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 3. Exhibits: 1. Financial Statements Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 157 2. Financial Statement Schedules: Schedule I Summary of Investments Other Than Investments in Related Parties as of December 31, 2020 315 The information called for by this item is hereby incorporated herein by reference to the relevant portions of the Proxy The following documents are filed as part of this report: See the accompanying Exhibit Index. Schedule II Condensed Financial Information of Registrant as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 Schedule III Supplementary Insurance Information as of and for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 Schedule IV Reinsurance as of and for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 324 Any remaining schedules provided for in the applicable SEC regulations are omitted because they are either inapplicable or the relevant information is provided elsewhere within this Form 10-K. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 401 425 Table of Contents (1) See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the composition of the Company s Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, at fair value. Type of Investment Fixed maturities, available-for-sale: Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity: Equity securities: Fixed maturities, trading 3,670 3,914 3,914 Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities 24,115 24,115 Commercial mortgage and other loans(2) 65,425 65,425 Policy loans 11,271 11,271 Short-term investments 7,800 7,800 Other invested assets 18,125 18,125 (2) Includes collateralized commercial mortgage and other loans of 64,775 million and uncollateralized loans of 650 million. Redeemable preferred stock 439 525 525 All other corporate bonds 738 807 729 Common stocks: Nonredeemable preferred stocks 60 76 76 Perpetual preferred stocks 183 232 232 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 30,766 40,448 40,448 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 10,668 12,811 12,811 Foreign governments 94,110 110,244 110,244 Asset-backed securities 14,489 14,591 14,591 Residential mortgage-backed securities 2,683 2,887 2,887 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 15,036 16,303 16,303 Public utilities 28,067 33,275 33,275 All other corporate bonds 158,212 181,821 181,821 Foreign governments 935 1,205 935 Residential mortgage-backed securities 266 286 266 Other common stocks 3,722 5,371 5,371 Mutual funds 2,003 2,456 2,456 Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale 354,470 412,905 412,905 Total fixed maturities, held-to-maturity 1,939 2,298 1,930 Total equity securities, at fair value 5,968 8,135 8,135 Total investments 492,783 553,620 Summary of Investments Other Than Investments in Related Parties PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. As of December 31, 2020 (in millions) Schedule I Cost or Cost(1) Balance Sheet Shown in the 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 402 425 Table of Contents ASSETS Investment contracts from subsidiaries 1 1 Fixed maturities, available for sale, at fair value (amortized cost: 2020- 1,529 2019- 1,643) 1,648 1,697 Equity securities, at fair value (cost: 2020- 25 2019- 25) 25 25 Other invested assets 3,876 2,326 Cash and cash equivalents 1,062 1,162 Due from subsidiaries 2,023 1,670 Loans receivable from subsidiaries 8,027 7,151 Investment in subsidiaries 78,345 76,101 Property, plant and equipment 446 471 Income taxes receivable 467 540 Other assets 116 101 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY LIABILITIES Due to subsidiaries 3,290 2,560 Loans payable to subsidiaries 5,526 6,110 Short-term debt 424 1,204 Long-term debt 18,561 17,430 Other liabilities 810 826 EQUITY Preferred Stock ( 0.01 par value 10,000,000 shares authorized none issued) 0 0 Common Stock ( 0.01 par value 1,500,000,000 shares authorized 666,305,189 shares issued as of December 31, 2020 and Additional paid-in capital 25,584 25,532 Common Stock held in treasury, at cost (269,867,738 and 267,472,781 shares as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively) (19,652) (19,453) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 30,738 24,039 Retained earnings 30,749 32,991 December 31, 2019) 6 6 Total investments 5,550 4,049 TOTAL ASSETS 96,036 91,245 Total liabilities 28,611 28,130 Total equity 67,425 63,115 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 96,036 91,245 Condensed Statements of Financial Positions as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 Condensed Financial Information of Registrant PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. (in millions) Schedule II  2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 403 425 See Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 404 425 Table of Contents REVENUES Net investment income 97 203 168 Realized investment gains (losses), net (262) (250) 106 Affiliated interest revenue 345 362 374 Other income (loss) 110 21 (7) EXPENSES General and administrative expenses 273 92 126 Interest expense 1,157 1,161 1,087 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF SUBSIDIARIES (1,140) (917) (572) INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF SUBSIDIARIES (783) (694) (442) Equity in earnings of subsidiaries 409 4,880 4,516 NET INCOME (LOSS) (374) 4,186 4,074 Other Comprehensive Income (loss) 6,699 13,126 (6,974) TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 6,325 17,312 (2,900) Total revenues 290 336 641 Total expenses 1,430 1,253 1,213 Total income tax expense (benefit) (357) (223) (130) Condensed Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 See Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant Condensed Financial Information of Registrant PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. (in millions) Schedule II  2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 405 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 406 425 Table of Contents CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net income (loss) (374) 4,186 4,074 Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities: CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from the sale maturity of: Payments for the purchase of: Capital contributions to subsidiaries (386) (593) (874) Returns of capital contributions from subsidiaries 813 1,013 1,083 Acquisition of Assurance IQ 0 (1,758) 0 Loans to subsidiaries, net of maturities (876) (108) 803 Other, investing 0 0 0 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Cash dividends paid on Common Stock (1,766) (1,641) (1,521) Common Stock acquired (500) (2,500) (1,500) Common Stock reissued for exercise of stock options 153 133 132 Proceeds from the issuance of debt (maturities longer than 90 days) 2,768 2,465 2,531 Repayments of debt (maturities longer than 90 days) (2,467) (1,114) (1,443) Repayments of loans from subsidiaries (1,023) (7) (728) Proceeds from loans payable to subsidiaries 166 818 99 Net change in financing arrangements (maturities of 90 days or less) 0 9 (36) Other, financing(1) (74) (72) (66) NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (100) (165) (350) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF YEAR 1,162 1,327 1,677 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF YEAR 1,062 1,162 1,327 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION Cash paid during the period for interest 1,088 1,084 1,014 Cash paid (refunds received) during the period for taxes (482) (103) (231) NON-CASH TRANSACTIONS DURING THE YEAR Non-cash capital contributions to subsidiaries (1) (596) (22) Non-cash dividends returns of capital from subsidiaries 470 1 101 Treasury Stock shares issued for stock-based compensation programs 0 197 138 Acquisitions: Assets Acquired 0 2,428 0 Liabilities assumed 0 216 0 Treasury Stock shares issued 0 454 0 Equity in earnings of subsidiaries (409) (4,880) (4,516) Realized investment (gains) losses, net 262 250 (106) Dividends received from subsidiaries 4,042 2,269 2,975 Property, plant and equipment (1) 0 (4) Change in: Fixed maturities, available-for-sale 412 371 234 Short-term investments 18,489 21,700 18,708 Equity securities, at fair value 0 0 (25) Fixed maturities, available for sale (298) (660) (370) Short-term investments (20,039) (20,486) (19,914) Net cash paid on acquisition 0 1,758 0 Due to from subsidiaries, net 649 669 (1) Other, operating 359 (229) 115 Cash flows from (used in) investing activities (1,885) (521) (355) Cash flows from (used in) financing activities(1) (2,743) (1,909) (2,532) Cash flows from (used in) operating activities(1) 4,528 2,265 2,537 Condensed Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 Condensed Financial Information of Registrant PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. (in millions) Schedule II 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 407 425 See Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 408 425 Table of Contents 1. ORGANIZATION AND PRESENTATION The Prudential Insurance Company of America ( PICA ). On December 18, 2001, PICA converted from a mutual life insurance company to a stock life insurance company and became an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial. the consolidated financial statements of Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries and the notes thereto (the Consolidated Financial Statements ). The condensed financial statements of Prudential Financial reflect its direct wholly-owned subsidiaries using the equity method of accounting. platform that offers a range of solutions that help meet consumers financial needs, for approximately 1,758 million in cash, net of transaction expenses, and restricted Prudential Financial Common Stock and equity awards with a market value of approximately 454 million as of the closing date. Assurance IQ is reported as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential. completed the sale of the Prudential Life Company of Korea, Ltd. ( POK ) to KB Financial Group Inc., for cash consideration of approximately 2.3 trillion, equal to approximately 1.9 billion. The Company recognized an approximate 800 million after-tax loss on the transaction in 2020. 2. OTHER INVESTMENTS investments and intercompany enterprise liquidity account funds. 3. DEBT (1) Ranges of interest rates are for the year ended December 31, 2020. Long-term Debt rate swaps, in conjunction with some of its debt issues. The impact of these derivative instruments is not reflected in the rates presented in the table above. For those derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting treatment, interest expense was 0.4 million, 0.3 million, and 0.3 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. ( in millions) Short-term debt: Total short-term debt 424 1,204 Long-term debt: Total long-term debt 18,561 17,430 (2) The weighted average interest rate on outstanding commercial paper was 0.12% and 1.71% at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Commercial paper(2) 25 25 Current portion of long-term debt 399 1,179 Fixed rate senior notes 2023-2051 1.50%-6.75% 11,007 9,912 Junior subordinated notes 2042-2060 3.70%-5.88% 7,554 7,518 Prudential Financial, Inc. ( Prudential Financial ) was incorporated on December 28, 1999, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of The condensed financial information of Prudential Financial, Inc. (the Parent Company ) should be read in conjunction with In October 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Assurance IQ, Inc. ( Assurance IQ ), a leading consumer solutions In August 2020, Prudential International Insurance Holding, Ltd. ( PIIH ), a subsidiary of Prudential Financial, successfully Prudential Financial s other investments as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 consisted primarily of highly liquid debt A summary of Prudential Financial s short- and long-term debt is as follows: In order to manage exposure to interest rate movements, Prudential Financial utilizes derivative instruments, primarily interest Schedule of Long-term Debt Maturities Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant Condensed Financial Information of Registrant PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Schedule II Dates Rate(1) 2020 2019 December 31, 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 409 425 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 410 425 Table of Contents 4. DIVIDENDS AND RETURNS OF CAPITAL subsidiaries: (1) 2020 includes 1,627 million of net proceeds from the sale of POK that were distributed to PFI. 5. COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES December 31, 2020, there was 354 million outstanding under this commercial paper program. As of December 31, 2020, Prudential Financial had issued guarantees of outstanding loans totaling 3.8 billion between international insurance subsidiaries and other affiliates. Northwest, N.A. Under this agreement, Prudential Financial guaranteed obligations with respect to an affiliated loan from PICA to an affiliate. The loan proceeds were utilized to construct Prudential Tower home office in Newark, New Jersey. arrangements, including those made in the normal course of businesses guaranteeing the performance of, or representations made by, Prudential Financial subsidiaries. Prudential Financial has provided indemnities and guarantees related to acquisitions and dispositions, investments, debt issuances and other transactions, including those provided as part of its ongoing operations that are triggered by, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by Prudential Financial or its subsidiaries. These obligations are typically subject to various time limitations, defined by the contract or by operation of law, such as statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation is subject to contractual limitations, while in other cases such limitations are not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations are not subject to limitations, it is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount due under these guarantees. At December 31, 2020, Prudential Financial has no accrued liabilities associated with other financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements. Calendar Year 2022 2023 2024 2025 (in millions) Long-term debt 0 0 700 0 17,861 18,561 (in millions) Prudential Annuities Holding Company 120 163 175 International Insurance and Investments Holding Companies(1) 3,061 1,065 2,270 The Prudential Insurance Company of America 500 600 0 PGIM Holding Company 399 462 578 Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation 760 978 1,025 Other Holding Companies 14 14 10 Total 4,854 3,282 4,058 The following table presents Prudential Financial s contractual maturities for long-term debt as of December 31, 2020: For the years ended December 31, Prudential Financial received cash dividends and or returns of capital from the following Prudential Financial has issued a subordinated guarantee covering a subsidiary s domestic commercial paper program. As of Prudential Financial has provided guarantees of the payment of principal and interest on intercompany loans between affiliates. In 2013, Prudential Financial entered into a 500 million indemnity and guarantee agreement with Wells Fargo Bank Prudential Financial is also subject to other financial guarantees, net worth maintenance agreements and indemnity 2020 2019 2018 thereafter Total 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 411 425 Table of Contents PGIM 0 0 0 0 0 304 0 8 2,637 U.S Businesses: International Businesses 7,668 128,682 94 51,476 16,155 4,973 14,676 1,239 2,809 Corporate and Other (25) 14,076 1 1,115 1,584 1,463 2,203 36 1,560 Closed Block division 209 46,762 0 14,295 1,982 2,240 4,433 26 331 U.S. Workplace Solutions division: Retirement 141 68,919 0 55,368 6,531 4,735 10,115 17 1,089 U.S. Individual Solutions division: Individual Annuities 4,689 21,325 0 12,383 2,399 898 664 481 1,771 Assurance IQ division: Assurance IQ 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 533 Group Insurance 149 5,176 246 7,470 5,171 516 4,870 8 924 Individual Life 6,196 21,062 0 29,099 3,347 2,279 4,261 406 2,259 Total U.S. Workplace Solutions division 290 74,095 246 62,838 11,702 5,251 14,985 25 2,013 Total U.S. Individual Solutions division 10,885 42,387 0 41,482 5,746 3,177 4,925 887 4,030 Total Assurance IQ division 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 533 Total PFI excluding Closed Block division 18,818 259,240 341 156,911 35,187 15,170 36,789 2,195 13,582 Total 19,027 306,002 341 171,206 37,169 17,410 41,222 2,221 13,913 Total U.S. Businesses 11,175 116,482 246 104,320 17,448 8,430 19,910 912 6,576 Acquisition Benefits, As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2020 Supplementary Insurance Information PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Policy Claims and Benefits Schedule III (in millions) Investment Settlement Amortization Operating 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 412 425 Table of Contents PGIM 0 0 0 0 0 200 0 6 2,520 U.S Businesses: International Businesses(1) 7,442 117,298 86 49,599 15,604 4,916 14,122 1,144 2,861 Corporate and Other(1) 1,126 23,071 0 2,351 2,024 1,679 2,476 97 1,507 Closed Block division 235 47,614 0 11,839 2,207 2,323 5,223 29 353 U.S. Workplace Solutions division: Retirement 144 67,783 0 49,047 9,490 4,721 13,251 29 1,160 U.S. Individual Solutions division: Individual Annuities 4,973 15,151 0 9,529 2,748 854 680 321 1,869 Assurance IQ division: Assurance IQ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 151 Group Insurance 156 4,865 242 8,587 5,024 623 4,544 7 915 Individual Life 5,836 17,417 0 28,146 3,083 2,268 3,678 699 2,080 Total U.S. Workplace Solutions division 300 72,648 242 57,634 14,514 5,344 17,795 36 2,075 Total U.S. Individual Solutions division 10,809 32,568 0 37,675 5,831 3,122 4,358 1,020 3,949 Total Assurance IQ division 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 151 Total PFI excluding Closed Block division 19,677 245,585 328 147,259 37,973 15,262 38,751 2,303 13,063 Total 19,912 293,199 328 159,098 40,180 17,585 43,974 2,332 13,416 Total U.S. Businesses 11,109 105,216 242 95,309 20,345 8,466 22,153 1,056 6,175 Acquisition Benefits, As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2019 Supplementary Insurance Information PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Other Policy Claims and Schedule III (in millions) Investment Settlement Amortization of Operating 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 413 425 Table of Contents (1) Effective second quarter of 2020, the carrying amount of assets of POK are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Effective third quarter of 2020, the carrying amount of assets of POT are excluded from the International Businesses and are included in the Divested and Run-off Businesses in Corporate and Other. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to current period presentation. See Note 1 for additional information. PGIM 0 0 0 0 0 73 0 8 2,298 U.S. Businesses: International Businesses(1) 7,234 109,136 84 48,873 15,120 4,616 13,103 1,108 2,543 Corporate and Other(1) 1,162 21,290 0 3,019 2,007 1,478 3,797 67 986 Closed Block division 264 48,282 0 9,023 2,301 2,288 4,340 35 364 U.S. Workplace Solutions division: Retirement 153 64,750 0 47,766 11,582 4,394 14,209 39 1,100 U.S. Individual Solutions division: Individual Annuities 4,984 11,057 0 8,886 2,792 683 734 658 1,824 Group Insurance 158 4,691 236 9,089 4,994 604 4,523 5 927 Individual Life 6,103 14,320 0 27,792 2,985 2,040 3,229 353 1,907 Total U.S. Workplace Solutions division 311 69,441 236 56,855 16,576 4,998 18,732 44 2,027 Total U.S. Individual Solutions division 11,087 25,377 0 36,678 5,777 2,723 3,963 1,011 3,731 Total PFI excluding Closed Block division 19,794 225,244 320 145,425 39,480 13,888 39,596 2,238 11,585 Total 20,058 273,526 320 154,448 41,781 16,176 43,936 2,273 11,949 Total U.S. Businesses 11,398 94,818 236 93,533 22,353 7,721 22,695 1,055 5,758 Acquisition Benefits, As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2018 Supplementary Insurance Information PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. Policy Claims Schedule III (in millions) Investment Settlement Claims, Losses Amortization of Operating 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 414 425 Table of Contents 2020 Life Insurance Face Amount In Force 4,015,943 887,028 180,343 3,309,258 5.4 % 2019 Life Insurance Face Amount In Force 4,123,019 862,460 188,576 3,449,135 5.5 % 2018 Life Insurance Face Amount In Force 3,985,589 791,354 197,343 3,391,578 5.8 % Life Insurance 26,197 2,199 4,336 28,334 15.3 % Accident and Health Insurance 2,894 88 0 2,806 0.0 Life Insurance 30,333 1,990 3,022 31,365 9.6 % Accident and Health Insurance 2,927 90 0 2,837 0.0 Life Insurance 32,248 1,792 2,574 33,030 7.8 % Accident and Health Insurance 2,800 51 0 2,749 0.0 Total Premiums 29,091 2,287 4,336 31,140 13.9 % Total Premiums 33,260 2,080 3,022 34,202 8.8 % Total Premiums 35,048 1,843 2,574 35,779 7.2 % As of and For the Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. ( in millions) Schedule IV Reinsurance Companies Companies Percentage of Amount Assumed 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 415 425 Table of Contents ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 416 425 Table of Contents Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company may use certain abbreviations, acronyms and terms which are defined below. Assurance IQ Assurance IQ, LLC POB Prudential of Brazil Company Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries POK The Prudential Life Insurance Company of Korea, Ltd. Gibraltar Life Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd. POT Prudential Life Insurance Company of Taiwan Inc. PALAC Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation PFI Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries Pruco Life Pruco Life Insurance Company PGFL Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Co., Ltd. PIIH Prudential International Insurance Holdings, Ltd. PHJ Prudential Holdings of Japan, Inc. Prudential Funding Prudential Funding, LLC PLIC Prudential Legacy Insurance Company of New Jersey PLNJ Pruco Life Insurance Company of New Jersey Prudential of Japan The Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd. POA Prudential of Argentina Registrant Prudential Financial, Inc. Prudential Entities PRIAC Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company Prudential Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries Prudential Financial Prudential Financial, Inc. Prudential Insurance PICA The Prudential Insurance Company of America 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 417 425 Table of Contents AFS Debt Securities Fixed maturities, available for sale, at fair value AIG American International Group HTM Debt Securities Fixed maturities, held-to-maturity, at amortized costs Allstate The Allstate Corporation IB Dynamic Income Benefit A.M. Best A.M. Best Company ICS The IAIS s Risk-based Global Insurance Capital Standard Board Prudential Financial's Board of Directors Moody's Moody's Investor Service, Inc. CIO Organization Chief Investment Officer Organization Morningstar Morningstar, Inc. Closed Block Certain in-force traditional domestic participating insurance and annuity products and corresponding assets that are used for the payment of benefits and policyholders' dividends on these products ComFrame The common framework for the supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups Council Financial Stability Oversight Council Pension Benefits Funded and non-funded non-contributory defined benefit pension plans which cover substantially all of the Company s employees DAI The Prudential Fixed Annuity with Daily Advantage Income Benefit Designated Financial Companies Dodd-Frank Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Exchange Act The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 SAB 118 Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Fitch Fitch Ratings Inc. Star and Edison Businesses FRB Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System GDPR The European Union s General Data Protection Regulation Guideline AXXX The Application of the Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Model Regulation Hartford Financial Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. Variable Profits Assurance IQ s achievement of certain targets for gross revenues net of associated selling expenses Hartford Life Business The Hartford Financial Services Group's Non-bank financial companies that are subject to stricter standards and supervision individual life insurance business acquired by Prudential Financial Defined Terms Holistic Framework Holistic Framework for Systemic Risk in the Insurance Sector Other Postretirement Benefits PBR Principle-based reserving approach for life insurance products PGIM The global investment management businesses of Prudential Financial, Inc. Regulation XXX Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Model Regulation S&P Standard & Poor's Rating Services Tax Act of 2017 The United States Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 Union Hamilton Union Hamilton Reinsurance, Ltd. U.S. GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America Certain health care and life insurance benefits provided by the Company for its retired employees, their beneficiaries and covered dependents AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd, AIG Edison Life Insurance Company, AIG Financial Assurance Japan K.K. and AIG Edison Service Co., Ltd., collectively 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 418 425 Table of Contents ABA Activities-Based Approach IAIS International Association of Insurance Supervisors AG 43 Actuarial Guideline No. 43 IRA Individual Retirement Account ALM Asset Liability Management IRS Internal Revenue Service AOCI Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income LIBOR London Inter-Bank Offered Rate ASC Accounting Standards Codification LPP Legacy Protection Plus ASU Accounting Standards Updates LPs LLCs Limited Partnerships and Limited Liability Companies AUD Australian Dollar MD&A Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations BEAT Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax MEC Modified Edowment Contract bps Basis Points MVA Market Value Adjusted Investment Options CAA The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021 MRB Market Risk Benefit CARES Act Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act NAIC National Association of Insurance Commissioners CECL Current Expected Credit Loss NAV Net Asset Value CFC Capital and Finance Committee NFA National Futures Association CFTC Commodity Futures Trading Commission NJDOBI New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance CLO Collateralized Loan Obligation NOLs Net Operating Losses COSO Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission DAC Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs NY DFS New York State Department of Financial Services DOL U.S. Department of Labor OCI Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) DRD Dividend Received Deduction OECD Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development DSI Deferred Sales Inducements OTC Over-The-Counter EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ERC Enterprise Risk Committee PCAOB Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act PDI Prudential Defined Income ERM Enterprise Risk Management PFL Profits Followed by Losses ESG Economic Scenario Generator PIIA The Prudential Immediate Income Annuity E.U. The European Union PPACA The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act FANIP Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program PPC Japan Policyholders Protection Corporation FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board PPI Prudential Premier Investment Variable Annuity FHLBB Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston RAF Risk Appetite Framework FHLBNY Federal Home Loan Bank of New York RBC Risk-Based Capital FINRA Financial Industry Regulatory Authority RICO Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act FIO Federal Insurance Office ROP Return of Purchase Payment FSA Financial Services Agency SEC Securities and Exchange Commission FSB Financial Stability Board SECURE Setting Every Community up for Retirement Enhancement Act GICs Guaranteed Investment Contracts SMR Solvency Margin Ratio framework GILTI Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income SOFR Secured Overnight Funding Rate GMAB Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefits SVO Securities Valuation Office GMDB Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits TBA To Be Announced GMIB Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits TDR Troubled Debt Restructuring GMIWB Guaranteed Minimum Income and Withdrawal Benefits GMWB Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefits URR Unearned Revenue Reserve GSE Government Sponsored Entities U.S. The United States of America G-SII Global Systemically Important Insurer USD United States Dollar HDI Highest Daily Lifetime Income VIEs Variable Interest Entities IMO Independent Marketing Organizations VOBA Value of Business Acquired IAIG Internationally Active Insurance Groups NPR Non-Performance Risk OTTI Other-Than-Temporary Impairments U.K. The United Kingdom 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 419 425 Table of Contents exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These agreements may contain representations and warranties by the parties. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other party or parties to such agreements and (i) may have been qualified by disclosures made to such other party or parties, (ii) were made only as of the date of such agreements or such other date(s) as may be specified in such agreements and are subject to more recent developments, which may not be fully reflected in the Company s public disclosure, (iii) may reflect the allocation of risk among the parties to such agreements and (iv) may apply materiality standards different from what may be viewed as material to investors. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the Company s actual state of affairs at the date hereof and should not be relied upon. 2.1 Plan of Reorganization. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-58524) (the Registration Statement ). 2.2 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated September 4, 2019, among Prudential Financial, Inc., Rain Merger Sub, LLC, Assurance IQ, Inc. and the other parties listed in the Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant s September 5, 2019 Current Report on Form 8-K. 2.3 Amendment No. 1 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated October 10, 2019, among Prudential Financial, Inc., Rain Merger Sub, LLC, Assurance IQ, Inc. and the other parties listed in the Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the Registrant s September 30, 2019 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 2.4 Amendment No. 2 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated May 11, 2020, among Prudential Financial, Inc., Assurance IQ, LLC and the other parties listed in the Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the Registrant s June 30, 2020 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 2.5 Share Purchase Agreement, dated April 10, 2020, between Prudential International Insurance Holdings, Ltd. and KB Financial Group Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant s April 10, 2020 Current Report on Form 8-K. 3.1 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Prudential Financial, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant s January 22, 2015 Current Report on Form 8-K. 3.2 Amended and Restated By-laws of Prudential Financial, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant s September 10, 2020 Current Report on Form 8-K. 4.1 Upon the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Registrant will furnish copies of all instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Registrant. 4.2 Description of Common Stock. 4.3 Description of 4.125% Junior Subordinated Notes. 4.4 Description of 5.625% Junior Subordinated Notes. 10.1 Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of July 17, 2017 among Prudential Financial, Inc., Prudential Funding, LLC, as Borrowers, The Prudential Insurance Company of America, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Several L C Agent, and the lenders party thereto. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s July 18, 2017 Current Report on Form 8-K. 10.2 Support Agreement between The Prudential Insurance Company of America and Prudential Funding Corporation, dated as of March 18, 1982. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registration Statement. Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company has filed certain agreements as EXHIBIT INDEX 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 420 425 Table of Contents 10.3 The Prudential Insurance Company of America Deferred Compensation Plan (as amended and restated effective as of December 1, 2015). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant s December 31, 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10.4 The Pension Plan for Non-Employee Directors of The Prudential Insurance Company of America. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Registration Statement. 10.5 Prudential Financial, Inc. Executive Change of Control Severance Program (amended and restated effective as of October 11, 2016). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant s December 31, 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10.6 Prudential Financial Executive Officer Severance Policy (adopted October 10, 2006). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s October 11, 2006 Current Report on Form 8-K. 10.7 Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (amended and restated effective November 11, 2008). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the Registrant s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10.8 First Amendment to the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan, effective February 9, 2010. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s February 11, 2010 Current Report on Form 8-K. 10.9 Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards in 2011 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan to the chairman, principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers of book value units under the 2011 Mid-Term Incentive Program and of stock options, performance shares and performance units under the 2011 Long-Term Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s February 8, 2011 Current Report on Form 8-K. 10.10 Revised Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards in 2012 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan to the chairman, principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers of book value units, stock options, performance shares and performance units under the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s June 11, 2013 Current Report on Form 8-K. 10.11 Revised Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards in 2013 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan to the chairman, principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers of book value units, stock options, performance shares and performance units under the 2013 Long-Term Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s June 11, 2013 Current Report on Form 8-K. 10.12 Revised Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards in 2014 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan to the chairman, principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers of book value units, stock options, performance shares and performance units under the 2014 Long-Term Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s February 18, 2014 Current Report on Form 8-K. 10.13 Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards in 2015 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan to the chairman, principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers of book value units, stock options, performance shares and performance units under the 2015 Long-Term Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant s February 10, 2015 Current Report on Form 8-K. 10.14 Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards in 2016 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan to the chairman, principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers of book value units, stock options, performance shares and performance units under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s February 9, 2016 Current Report on Form 8-K. 10.15 Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards to executive officers in 2017 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. 2016 Omnibus Incentive Plan of restricted stock units, stock options, performance shares, performance units and book value units under the 2017 Long-Term Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s February 14, 2017 Current Report on Form 8-K. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 421 425 Table of Contents 10.16 Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards to executive officers in 2018 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. 2016 Omnibus Incentive Plan of restricted stock units, stock options, performance shares, performance units and book value units under the 2018 Long-Term Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s February 13, 2018 Current Report on Form 8-K. 10.17 Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards to executive officers in 2019 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. 2016 Omnibus Incentive Plan of restricted stock units, stock options, performance shares, performance units and book value units under the 2019 Long-Term Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s February 12, 2019 Current Report on Form 8-K. 10.18 Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards to executive officers in 2020 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. 2016 Omnibus Incentive Plan of restricted stock units, stock options, performance shares and book value units under the 2020 Long-Term Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s February 11, 2020 Current Report on Form 8-K. 10.19 Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards to executive officers in 2021 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. 2016 Omnibus Incentive Plan of restricted stock units, stock options, performance shares and book value units under the 2021 Long-Term Incentive Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s February 10, 2021 Current Report on Form 8-K. 10.20 Form of Consent to the addition of the Diversity and Inclusion Goal and the Diversity and Inclusion Performance Modifier to performance shares and performance units awarded to executive officers in 2018. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant s March 31, 2018 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 10.21 Prudential Financial, Inc. 2016 Omnibus Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the Registrants December 31, 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10.22 Prudential Financial, Inc. Clawback Policy effective February 10, 2015. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s February 10, 2015 Current Report on Form 8-K. 10.23 Annual Incentive Payment Criteria for Executive Officers effective for awards in 2021 in respect of 2020. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s February 10, 2021 Current Report on Form 8-K. 10.24 Prudential Financial, Inc. Non-Employee Director Compensation Summary effective February 10, 2015. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the Registrant s December 31, 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10.25 The Prudential Supplemental Retirement Plan (amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to the Registrant s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10.26 First Amendment to The Prudential Supplemental Retirement Plan, effective June 30, 2012. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s June 30, 2012 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 10.27 Second Amendment to The Prudential Supplemental Retirement Plan, effective December 6, 2013. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the Registrant s December 31, 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10.28 Third Amendment to The Prudential Supplemental Retirement Plan, effective January 1, 2017. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to the Registrant s December 31, 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10.29 Fourth Amendment to The Prudential Supplemental Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1, 2018. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s September 30, 2018 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 10.30 Fifth Amendment to The Prudential Supplemental Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1, 2018. 10.31 Prudential Supplemental Employee Savings Plan, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2006. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Registrant s December 31, 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 422 425 Table of Contents 10.32 First Amendment to the Prudential Supplemental Employee Savings Plan, effective as of January 1, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s March 31, 2008 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 10.33 Second Amendment to the Prudential Supplemental Employee Savings Plan, effective January 1, 2009. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 to the Registrant s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10.34 Third Amendment to the Prudential Supplemental Employee Savings Plan, effective January 1, 2017. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Registrant s December 31, 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10.35 Fourth Amendment to the Prudential Supplemental Employee Savings Plan, effective as of April 1, 2018. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s September 30, 2018 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 10.36 Fifth Amendment to the Prudential Supplemental Employee Savings Plan, effective as of February 1, 2020. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant s March 31, 2020 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 10.37 Sixth Amendment to the Prudential Supplemental Employee Savings Plan, effective as of November 1, 2020. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s September 30, 2020 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 10.38 Seventh Amendment to the Prudential Supplemental Employee Savings Plan, effective as of January 1, 2018. 10.39 The Prudential Insurance Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the Registrant s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10- K. 10.40 First Amendment to the Prudential Insurance Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1, 2010. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to the Registrant s December 31, 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10.41 Prudential Financial, Inc. Compensation Plan (amended and restated effective as of November 11, 2008). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.41 to the Registrant s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10.42 The Prudential Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (as amended through October 9, 2007). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant s September 30, 2007 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 10.43 First Amendment to The Prudential Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, dated November 20, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.43 to the Registrant s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10.44 Prudential Financial, Inc. 2011 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (effective as of January 1, 2011). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the Registrant s December 31, 2010 Annual Report on Form 10- K. 10.45 Amendment No. 1 to the Prudential Financial, Inc. 2011 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s September 30, 2015 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 10.46 Prudential Financial, Inc. 2016 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.40 to the Registrant s December 31, 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10.47 Prudential Securities Incorporated Supplemental Retirement Plan for Executives (amended and restated effective January 1, 2009). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.44 to the Registrant s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 423 425 Table of Contents This exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. Certain confidential information contained in this exhibit, marked by [ ], has been omitted because it (i) is not material and (ii) 10.48 PFI Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.45 to the Registrant s December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10.49 First Amendment to the PFI Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1, 2010. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.42 to the Registrant s December 31, 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10.50 Prudential Financial, Inc. Nonqualified Retirement Plan Trust Agreement between Prudential Financial, Inc. and Wachovia Bank, N.A. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s June 30, 2007 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 10.51 The Prudential Severance Plan (amended and restated as of October 10, 2019). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s September 30, 2019 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 10.52 Restrictive Covenants Agreement dated February 14, 2020, between Prudential Financial, Inc., and Mark B. Grier. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.48 to the Registrant s December 31, 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 21.1 Subsidiaries of Prudential Financial, Inc. 23.1 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. 24.1 Powers of Attorney. 31.1 Section 302 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer. 31.2 Section 302 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer. 32.1 Section 906 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer. 32.2 Section 906 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer. 101.INS XBRL 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document. 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document. 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document. 101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document. 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101). would likely cause competitive harm to the Company if it were to be publicly disclosed. Instance Document the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document. 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 424 425 Table of Contents report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 19 day of February, 2021. persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on February 19, 2021: By: S KENNETH Y. TANJI Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following THOMAS J. BALTIMORE, JR. Director DOUGLAS A. SCOVANNER Director MARTINA HUND-MEJEAN Director S CHARLES F. LOWREY Chief Executive Officer, President and Director S KENNETH Y. TANJI Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer MICHAEL A. TODMAN Director GILBERT F. CASELLAS Director S ROBERT D. AXEL Senior Vice President and Controller Thomas J. Baltimore, Jr. ROBERT M. FALZON Director CHRISTINE A. POON Director SANDRA PIANALTO Director Martina Hund-Mejean Douglas A. Scovanner WENDY E. JONES Director PETER R. LIGHTE Director KARL J. KRAPEK Director Michael A. Todman Gilbert F. Casellas Charles F. Lowrey (Principal Executive Officer) Christine A. Poon Robert M. Falzon Kenneth Y. Tanji (Principal Financial Officer) Sandra Pianalto GEORGE PAZ Director Attorney-in-fact Wendy E. Jones Karl J. Krapek Peter R. Lighte Robert D. Axel (Principal Accounting Officer) George Paz Name Title SIGNATURES Prudential Financial, Inc. By: S Kenneth Y. Tanji Name: Kenneth Y. Tanji Title: Executive Vice President 2022 3 10 11:04 pru-20201231 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001137774 000113777421000049 pru-20201231.htm 425 425