Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes No Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of large accelerated filer, accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, and emerging growth company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one) Large accelerated filer Accelerated filer Non-accelerated filer Smaller reporting company Emerging growth company If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes No The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2020 was 281,771,756,077 (based on the last reported sale price of 294.95 per share on June 30, 2020, on the New York Stock Exchange), excluding only shares of voting stock held beneficially by directors, executive officers and subsidiaries of the registrant. As of January 29, 2021, there were 945,319,404 shares of the registrant s Common Stock, .01 par value per share, issued and outstanding. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE The information required by Part III of this report, to the extent not set forth herein, is incorporated by reference from the registrant s definitive proxy statement relating to its 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Such proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year to which this report relates. ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 or TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered Common Stock, .01 par value UNH New York Stock Exchange Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None UnitedHealth Group Center 9900 Bren Road East Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (952) 936-1300 (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 Delaware 41-1321939 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) For the transition period from to Commission file number: 1-10864 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97 Signatures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98 Item 11. Executive Compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88 Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88 Item 1. Business . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Item 2. Properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Item 6. Selected Financial Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . . . . 32 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 Item 8. Financial Statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure . . . . 84 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 Item 9B. Other Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87 UNITEDHEALTH GROUP Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS INTRODUCTION The terms we, our, us, its, UnitedHealth Group, or the Company used in this report refer to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and its subsidiaries. UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health care company with a mission to help people live healthier lives and help make the health system work better for everyone. We seek to enhance the performance of the health system and improve the overall health and well-being of the people we serve and their communities. We work with health care professionals and other key partners to expand access to quality health care, so people get the care they need at an affordable price. We support the patient-physician relationship and empower people with the information, guidance and tools they need to make personal health choices and decisions. Our two complementary businesses Optum and UnitedHealthcare are driven by this unified mission and vision to improve health care access, affordability, experiences and outcomes for the individuals and organizations we are privileged to serve. The breadth and scope of our diversified company help to consistently improve health care quality, access and affordability. Our ability to analyze complex data and apply deep health care expertise and insights allows us to serve people, care providers, businesses, communities and governments with more innovative products and complete, end-to-end offerings for many of the biggest challenges facing health care today. Optum is an information and technology-enabled health services businesses delivering services to help modernize the health system and improve overall population health. Optum serves the broad health care marketplace, including payers, care providers, employers, governments, life sciences companies and consumers, through its OptumHealth, OptumInsight and OptumRx businesses. These businesses have dedicated units to help improve overall health system performance through optimizing care quality, reducing costs and improving consumer experience and care provider performance, leveraging distinctive capabilities in data and analytics, pharmacy care services, population health, health care delivery and health care operations. UnitedHealthcare offers a full spectrum of health benefit programs. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual serves employers ranging from sole proprietorships to large, multi-site and national employers, public sector employers and individual consumers. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement delivers health and well-being benefits for Medicare beneficiaries and retirees. UnitedHealthcare Community & State manages health care benefit programs on behalf of state Medicaid and community programs and their participants. UnitedHealthcare Global provides health and dental benefits and hospital and clinical services to employer groups and individuals in South America, and other diversified global health businesses. Through Optum and UnitedHealthcare, in 2020, we processed nearly a trillion dollars in gross billed charges and we managed more than 250 billion in aggregate health care spending on behalf of the customers and consumers we serve. Our revenues are derived from premiums on risk-based products product revenues from pharmacy care services fees from care delivery, management, administrative, technology, consulting and managed outsourced services sales of a wide variety of products and services related to the broad health care industry and investment and other income. Our two business platforms have four reportable segments: OptumHealth OptumInsight OptumRx and UnitedHealthcare, which includes UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement, UnitedHealthcare Community & State and UnitedHealthcare Global. Optum is an information and technology-enabled health services business serving the broad health care marketplace, including: Those who need care: the consumers who need the right support, information, resources and products to achieve their health goals. Those who provide care: pharmacies, hospitals, physicians, practices and other health care facilities seeking to modernize the health system and support the best possible patient care and experiences. Those who pay for care: employers health plans and state, federal and municipal agencies devoted to ensuring the populations they sponsor receive high-quality care, administered and delivered efficiently and effectively. Those who innovate for care: global life sciences organizations dedicated to developing more effective approaches to care, enabling technologies and medicines to improve care delivery and health outcomes. Optum operates three business segments leveraging distinctive capabilities in health care delivery, population health, health care operations, data and analytics and pharmacy care services: OptumHealth focuses on care delivery, care management, wellness and consumer engagement, and health financial services OptumInsight offers data, analytics, research, consulting, technology and managed services solutions and OptumRx provides a diversified array of pharmacy care services. OptumHealth OptumHealth provides health and wellness care, addressing the physical, emotional and health-related financial needs of 98 million consumers, through a national health care delivery platform which engages people in the most appropriate care settings, including their homes. OptumHealth helps patients and providers navigate and address complex, chronic and behavioral health needs delivers local primary, specialty, surgical and urgent care offers post-acute care planning services and serves consumers and care providers through advanced, on-demand digital health technologies, such as telehealth and remote patient monitoring, and innovative health care financial services. OptumHealth works directly with consumers, care delivery systems, employers, payers, and government entities to improve quality, patient and provider satisfaction while lowering cost. OptumHealth enables care providers transition from traditional fee-for-service payment models to performance- based delivery and payment models to improve patient health and outcomes. Through strategic partnerships, alliances and ownership arrangements, OptumHealth helps care providers adopt new approaches and technologies improving the coordination of care across providers to more comprehensively serve patients. Optum Financial, including Optum Bank, serves consumers through 7.6 million health savings and other accounts and has more than 16 billion in assets under management as of December 31, 2020. During 2020, Optum Financial processed 178 billion in digital medical payments to physicians and other health care providers. Organizations across the health system rely on Optum to manage and improve payment flows through its highly automated, scalable, digital payment systems. State Governments. Provides advanced technology and analytics services to modernize the administration of critical safety net programs, such as Medicaid, while improving cost predictability. Life Sciences Companies. Combines data and analytics expertise with comprehensive technologies and health care knowledge to help life sciences companies adopt a more comprehensive approach to advancing therapeutic discoveries and improving clinical outcomes. OptumHealth offers its products on a risk basis, assuming responsibility for health care costs in exchange for a monthly premium, on an administrative fee basis, managing or administering products and services in exchange for a monthly fee, or on a fee-for-service basis, delivering medical services to patients in exchange for a contracted fee. For financial services offerings, OptumHealth charges fees and earns investment income on managed funds. OptumHealth sells its products primarily through its direct sales force, strategic collaborations and external producers in three key areas: employers including large, mid-sized and small employers payers including health plans, TPAs, underwriter stop-loss carriers and individual product intermediaries and government entities including the U.S. Departments of Health and Human Services (HHS), Veterans Affairs, Defense, and other federal, state and local health care agencies. OptumInsight OptumInsight brings together advanced analytics, technology and health care expertise to deliver integrated services and solutions. Hospital systems, physicians, health plans, state governments, life sciences companies and other organizations comprising the health care industry depend on OptumInsight to help them improve performance, achieve efficiency, reduce costs, advance quality, meet compliance mandates and modernize their core operating systems to meet the changing needs of the health system. OptumInsight serves the needs of health systems (e.g., physicians and hospital systems), health plans, state governments and life sciences companies. Health Systems. Serves hospitals, physicians and other care providers to improve revenue and growth, better coordinate care and reduce administrative costs through technology and services to improve population health management, patient engagement, revenue cycle management and strategic growth plans. Health Plans. Serves health plans by improving financial performance and enhancing outcomes through proactive analytics, a comprehensive payment integrity portfolio and staff-supported risk and quality services. OptumInsight helps health plans navigate a dynamic environment defined by shifts in employer vs. government- sponsored coverage, the demand for affordable benefit plans and the need to leverage new technology to reduce complexity. Many of OptumInsight s software and information products and professional services are delivered over extended periods, often several years. OptumInsight maintains an order backlog to track unearned revenues under these long-term arrangements. The backlog consists of estimated revenue from signed contracts, other legally binding agreements and anticipated contract renewals based on historical experience with OptumInsight s customers. OptumInsight s aggregate backlog as of December 31, 2020 was approximately 20.2 billion, of which 10.5 billion is expected to be realized within the next 12 months. The aggregate backlog includes 7.5 billion related to affiliated agreements. OptumInsight s aggregate backlog as of December 31, 2019, was 19.3 billion. OptumInsight cannot provide any assurance it will be able to realize all of the revenues included in the backlog due to uncertainties with regard to the timing and scope of services and the potential for cancellation, non-renewal or early termination of service arrangements. OptumInsight s products and services are sold primarily through a direct sales force. OptumInsight s products are also supported and distributed through an array of alliances and business partnerships with other technology vendors, who integrate and interface OptumInsight s products with their applications. OptumRx provides a full spectrum of pharmacy care services through its network of more than 67,000 retail pharmacies, multiple home delivery, specialty and community health pharmacies and through the provision of in-home and pharmacy infusion services. OptumRx manages limited and ultra-limited distribution drugs in oncology, HIV, pain management and ophthalmology and serves the growing pharmacy needs of people with behavioral health and substance use disorders, particularly Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. OptumRx s comprehensive whole-person approach to pharmacy care services integrates demographic, medical, laboratory, pharmaceutical and other clinical data and applies analytics to drive clinical care insight to support care treatments and compliance, benefiting clients and individual consumers through enhanced services, elevated clinical quality and cost trend management. In 2020, OptumRx managed 105 billion in pharmaceutical spending, including 46 billion in specialty pharmaceutical spending. OptumRx serves health benefits providers, large national employer plans, unions and trusts, purchasing coalitions and government entities. OptumRx s distribution system consists primarily of health insurance brokers and other health care consultants and direct sales. OptumRx offers multiple clinical programs, digital tools and services to help clients manage overall pharmacy and health care costs in a clinically appropriate manner which are designed to promote better health outcomes, and to help target inappropriate utilization and non-adherence to medication, each of which may result in adverse medical events affecting member health and client pharmacy and medical spend. OptumRx provides various utilization management, medication management, quality assurance, adherence and counseling programs to complement each client s plan design and clinical strategies. OptumRx offers a distinctive approach to integrating the management of medical and pharmaceutical care by using data and advanced analytics to help improve comprehensive decision-making, elevate quality, close gaps in care and reduce costs for customers and people served. UnitedHealthcare Through its health benefits offerings, UnitedHealthcare is enabling better health, creating a better health care experience for its customers and helping to control rising health care costs. UnitedHealthcare s market position is built on: strong local-market relationships the breadth of product offerings, based upon extensive expertise in distinct market segments in health care service and advanced technology, including digital consumer engagement competitive medical and operating cost positions effective clinical engagement and innovation for customers and consumers. UnitedHealthcare utilizes Optum s capabilities to help coordinate and provide patient care, improve affordability of medical care, analyze cost trends, manage pharmacy care services, work with care providers more effectively and create a simpler and more satisfying consumer and physician experience. In the United States, UnitedHealthcare arranges for discounted access to care through networks which, as of December 31, 2020, include 1.4 million physicians and other health care professionals and more than 6,500 hospitals and other facilities. UnitedHealthcare is subject to extensive government regulation. See further discussion of our regulatory environment below under Government Regulation and in Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual offers a comprehensive array of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services nationwide for large national employers, public sector employers, mid-sized employers, small businesses, and individual consumers. As of December 31, 2020, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual provides access to medical services for 26.2 million people on behalf of our customers and alliance partners, including employer customers, serving people across all 50 states, the District of Columbia and most U.S. territories. Products are offered through affiliates licensed as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations (HMOs), or third-party administrators (TPAs). Large employer groups typically use self-funded arrangements where UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual earns a service fee. Smaller employer groups and individuals are more likely to purchase risk-based products because they are less willing or unable to bear a greater potential liability for health care expenditures. Through its risk-based product offerings, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual assumes the risk of both medical and administrative costs for its customers in return for a monthly premium which is typically a fixed rate per individual served for a one-year period. When providing administrative and other management services to customers who elect to self-fund the health care costs of their employees and employees dependents, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual receives a fixed monthly service fee per individual served. These customers retain the risk of financing medical benefits for their employees and employees dependents, while UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual provides services such as coordination and facilitation of medical and related services to customers, consumers and health care professionals, administration of transaction processing and access to a contracted network of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals, including dental and vision. The consolidated purchasing capacity represented by the individuals served by UnitedHealth Group makes it possible for UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual to contract for cost-effective access to a large number of conveniently located care professionals and facilities. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual has relationships with network care providers who integrate data and analytics, implement value-based payments and care management programs and enable us to jointly better manage health care and improve quality across populations. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual typically distributes its products through consultants or direct sales in the larger employer and public sector segments. In the smaller group segment of the commercial marketplace, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual s distribution system consists primarily of direct sales and sales through collaboration with brokers and agents. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual also distributes products through wholesale agents or agencies who contract with health insurance carriers to distribute individual or group benefits and provide other related services to their customers. In addition, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual distributes its products through professional employer organizations, associations and through both multi-carrier and its own proprietary private exchange marketplaces. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual s diverse product portfolio offers employers a continuum of benefit designs, price points and approaches to consumer engagement which provides the flexibility to meet a full spectrum of their coverage needs. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual s major product families include: Consumer Engagement Products. Consumer engagement products couple plan design with financial accounts to increase individuals responsibility for their health and well-being. This suite of products includes high- deductible consumer-driven benefit plans, which include health reimbursement accounts (HRAs), health savings accounts (HSAs) and consumer engagement services such as personalized behavioral incentive programs, consumer education and other digital offerings. We also offer and have been developing a variety of innovative consumer-centric products aligning with the unique needs and financial means of our customers, while engaging individuals in better managing their health. Traditional Products. Traditional products include a full range of medical benefits and network options, and offer a spectrum of covered services, including preventive care, direct access to specialists and catastrophic protection. Clinical and Pharmacy Products. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual offers a comprehensive suite of clinical and pharmacy care services products which complement its service offerings by improving quality of care, engaging consumers and providing cost-saving options. Consumers served by UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual can access clinical products to help them make better health care decisions and better use of their medical benefits which contribute to improved health and lowered medical expenses. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual s comprehensive and integrated pharmacy care services promote lower costs by using formulary programs to produce better unit costs, encouraging consumers to use drugs offering improved value and outcomes, helping consumers take actions to improve their health and supporting the appropriate use of drugs based on clinical evidence through physician and consumer education programs. Each medical plan has a core set of clinical programs embedded in the offering, with additional services available depending on offering type (risk-based or self-funded), line of business (e.g., small business, key accounts, public sector, national accounts or individual consumers) and clinical need. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual s clinical programs include: wellness programs decision support utilization management case and disease management complex condition management on-site programs, including biometrics and flu shots incentives to reinforce positive behavior change mental health substance use disorder management and employee assistance programs. Specialty Offerings. Through its broad network, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual delivers dental, vision, hearing and other specialty benefits, including accident protection, critical illness, disability and hospital indemnity offerings, using an integrated approach in private and retail settings. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health and well-being services to individuals age 50 and older, addressing their unique needs for preventive and acute health care services, as well as services dealing with chronic disease and other specialized issues common among older people. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement is fully dedicated to serving this growing senior market segment, providing products and services in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and most U.S. territories. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement has distinct pricing, underwriting, clinical program management and marketing capabilities dedicated to health products and services in this market. Medicare Part D. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides Medicare Part D benefits to beneficiaries throughout the United States and its territories through its Medicare Advantage and stand-alone Medicare Part D plans. The stand-alone Medicare Part D plans address a large spectrum of people s needs and preferences for their prescription drug coverage, including low-cost prescription options. Each of the plans includes the majority of the drugs covered by Medicare and provides varying levels of coverage to meet the diverse needs of Medicare beneficiaries. As of December 31, 2020, UnitedHealthcare enrolled 9.2 million people in the Medicare Part D programs, including 4.0 million individuals in stand-alone Medicare Part D plans, with the remainder in Medicare Advantage plans incorporating Medicare Part D coverage. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement offers a selection of products allowing people choice in obtaining the health coverage and services they need as their circumstances change. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement is positioned to serve seniors who find affordable, network-based care provided through Medicare Advantage plans meets their unique health care needs. For those who prefer traditional fee-for-service Medicare, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement offers both Medicare Supplement and Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit (Medicare Part D) programs to supplement their government-sponsored Medicare by providing additional benefits and coverage options. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement services include care management and health system navigator services, clinical management programs, nurse health line services, 24-hour access to health care information, access to discounted health services from a network of care providers and administrative services. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement has extensive distribution capabilities and experience, including direct marketing to consumers on behalf of its key clients, including AARP, the nation s largest membership organization dedicated to the needs of people age 50 and over, and state and U.S. government agencies. Products are also offered through agents, employer groups and digital channels. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement s major product categories include: Medicare Advantage. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health care coverage for seniors and other eligible Medicare beneficiaries primarily through the Medicare Advantage program administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), including Medicare Advantage HMO plans, Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) plans, Point-of-Service plans, Private-Fee-for-Service plans and Special Needs Plans (SNPs). Under the Medicare Advantage program, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health insurance coverage in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from CMS plus, in some cases, monthly consumer premiums. Premium amounts received from CMS vary based on the geographic areas in which individuals reside demographic factors such as age, gender and institutionalized status and the health status of the individual. Medicare Advantage plans are designed to compete at the local level, taking into account consumer and care provider preferences, competitor offerings, our quality and cost initiatives, our historical financial results and the long-term payment rate outlook for each geographic area. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement served 5.7 million people through its Medicare Advantage products as of December 31, 2020. Built on more than 20 years of experience, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement s senior-focused care management model operates at a medical cost level below traditional Medicare, while helping seniors live healthier lives. We have continued to enhance our offerings, focusing on more digital and physical care resources in the home, expanding our concierge navigation services and enabling the home as a safe and effective setting of care. For example, through our HouseCalls program, nurse practitioners performed nearly 1.7 million preventive care visits in 2020 to address unmet care opportunities and close gaps in care. Our Navigate4Me program provides a single point of contact and a direct line of support for individuals as they go through their health care experiences. For high-risk patients in certain care settings and programs, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement uses proprietary, automated medical record software and digital therapeutics for remote monitoring enabling clinical care teams to capture and track patient data and clinical encounters, creating a comprehensive set of care information bridging across home, hospital and nursing home care settings. Proprietary predictive modeling tools help identify people at high risk and enable care managers to create individualized care plans to help them obtain the right care, in the right place, at the right time. Medicare Supplement. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement is currently serving 4.5 million seniors nationwide through various Medicare Supplement products in association with AARP. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement offers a full range of supplemental products at a diversity of price points. These products cover various levels of coinsurance and deductible gaps to which seniors are exposed in the traditional Medicare program. Premium revenues from CMS represented 36% of UnitedHealth Group s total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020, most of which were generated by UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement. UnitedHealthcare Community & State UnitedHealthcare Community & State is dedicated to serving state programs caring for the economically disadvantaged, the medically underserved and those without the benefit of employer-funded health care coverage, typically in exchange for a monthly premium per member from the state program. UnitedHealthcare Community & State s primary customers oversee Medicaid plans, including Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) Children s Health Insurance Programs (CHIP) Dual SNPs (DSNPs) Long-Term Services and Supports (LTSS) Aged, Blind and Disabled and other federal, state and community health care programs. As of December 31, 2020, UnitedHealthcare Community & State participated in programs in 31 states and the District of Columbia, and served 6.6 million people including more than 1.1 million people through Medicaid expansion programs in 16 states under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). States using managed care services for Medicaid beneficiaries select health plans by using a formal bid process or by awarding individual contracts. A number of factors are considered by UnitedHealthcare Community & State when choosing programs for participation, including the state s commitment and consistency of support for its Medicaid managed care program in terms of service, innovation and funding the eligible population base, both immediate and long term and the structure of the projected program. UnitedHealthcare Community & State works with its state customers to advocate for actuarially sound rates, commensurate with medical cost trends. These health plans and care programs are designed to address the complex needs of the populations they serve, including the chronically ill, people with disabilities and people with a higher risk of medical, behavioral and social conditions. UnitedHealthcare Community & State administers benefits for the unique needs of children, pregnant women, adults, seniors and those who are institutionalized or are nursing home eligible. These individuals often live in medically underserved areas and are less likely to have a consistent relationship with the medical community or a care provider. They also often face significant social and economic challenges. UnitedHealthcare Community & State leverages the national capabilities of UnitedHealth Group locally, supporting effective care management, strong regulatory partnerships, greater administrative efficiency, improved clinical outcomes and the ability to adapt to a changing national and local market environment. UnitedHealthcare Community & State coordinates resources among family, physicians, other health care providers, and government and community-based agencies and organizations to facilitate continuous and effective care and often addresses other social determinants affecting people s health status and health system usage. Approximately 75% of the people in state Medicaid programs are served by managed care, but this population represents only approximately 50% of total Medicaid spending. UnitedHealthcare Community & State s business development opportunities include entering fee-for-service markets converting to managed care and growing in existing managed care markets, including state expansions to populations with more complex needs requiring more sophisticated models of care, including DSNP and LTSS programs. Our offerings to state expansion cover more medically complex populations, including integrated care management of physical, behavioral, long-term care services and supports, and social services by applying strong data analytics and community-based collaboration. UnitedHealthcare Community & State continues to evolve its clinical model to enhance quality and the clinical experience for the people it serves. The model enables UnitedHealthcare Community & State to quickly identify the people who could benefit most from more highly coordinated care. UnitedHealthcare Global UnitedHealthcare Global serves 7.6 million people with medical and dental benefits, typically in exchange for a monthly premium per member, residing principally in Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Peru, but also in 150 other countries. UnitedHealthcare Global serves multinational and local businesses, governments, insurers and individuals and their families through health insurance plans for local populations, care delivery services, benefit plans and risk and assistance solutions. UnitedHealthcare Global offers health care delivery in our principal markets through over 50 hospitals, and approximately 200 outpatient and ambulatory clinics and surgery centers to UnitedHealthcare Global members and consumers served by the external payer market. In Brazil, Amil provides health benefits to 3.4 million people and dental benefits to more than 2.2 million people. Empresas Banm dica provides health benefits and health care services to approximately 2 million people in Chile, Colombia and Peru. Lus adas Sa de provides clinical services to people in Portugal through an owned network of hospitals and outpatient clinics. GOVERNMENT REGULATION Our businesses are subject to comprehensive federal, state and international laws and regulations. We are regulated by federal, state and international regulatory agencies who generally have discretion to issue regulations and interpret and enforce laws and rules. The regulations can vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and the interpretation of existing laws and rules also may change periodically. Domestic and international governments continue to enact and consider various legislative and regulatory proposals which could materially impact certain aspects of the health care system. New laws, regulations and rules, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations and rules, including as a result of changes in the political climate, could adversely affect our business. If we fail to comply with, or fail to respond quickly and appropriately to changes in, applicable laws, regulations and rules, our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors for a discussion of the risks related to our compliance with federal, state and international laws and regulations. Federal Laws and Regulation We are subject to various levels of U.S. federal regulation. For example, when we contract with the federal government, we are subject to federal laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. CMS regulates our UnitedHealthcare businesses and certain aspects of our Optum businesses. Payments by CMS to our businesses are subject to regulations, including those governing fee-for-service and the submission of information relating to the health status of enrollees for purposes of determining the amounts of certain payments to us. CMS also has the right to audit our performance to determine our compliance with CMS contracts and regulations and the quality of care we provide to Medicare beneficiaries. Our commercial business is further subject to CMS audits related to medical loss ratios (MLRs) and risk adjustment data. UnitedHealthcare Community & State has Medicaid and CHIP contracts subject to federal regulations regarding services to be provided to Medicaid enrollees, payment for those services and other aspects of these programs. There are many regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid compliance and the regulatory environment with respect to these programs is complex. In addition, our business is subject to laws and regulations relating to consumer protection, anti-fraud and abuse, anti-kickbacks, false claims, prohibited referrals, inappropriate reduction or limitation of health care services, anti-money laundering, securities and antitrust compliance. Privacy, Security and Data Standards Regulation. Certain of our operations are subject to regulation under the administrative simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (HIPAA), which apply to both the group and individual health insurance markets, including self-funded employee benefit plans. Federal regulations related to HIPAA contain minimum standards for electronic transactions and code sets and for the privacy and security of protected health information. Our businesses must comply with the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH) which regulates matters relating to privacy, security and data standards. HITECH imposes requirements on uses and disclosures of health information included contracting requirements for HIPAA business associate agreements extends parts of HIPAA privacy and security provisions to business associates adds federal data breach notification requirements for covered entities and business associates and reporting requirements to HHS and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and, in some cases, to the local media strengthens enforcement and imposes higher financial penalties for HIPAA violations and, in certain cases, imposes criminal penalties for individuals, including employees. In the conduct of our business, depending on the circumstances, we may act as either a covered entity or a business associate. The use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data by our businesses is also regulated in some instances by other federal laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) or state statutes implementing GLBA. These federal laws and state statutes generally require insurers to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal health and financial information is used and the opportunity to opt out of certain disclosures before the insurer shares such information with a third party, and generally prescribe safeguards for the protection of personal information. Neither the GLBA nor HIPAA privacy regulations preempt more stringent state laws and regulations, which may apply to us, as discussed below. Federal consumer protection laws may also apply in some instances to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information. ERISA. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), regulates how our services are provided to or through certain types of employer-sponsored health benefit plans. ERISA is a set of laws and regulations subject to periodic interpretation by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) as well as the federal courts. ERISA sets forth standards on how our business units may do business with employers who sponsor employee health benefit plans, particularly those who maintain self-funded plans. Regulations established by the DOL subject us to additional requirements for administration of benefits, claims payment and member appeals under health care plans governed by ERISA. State Laws and Regulation Health Care Regulation. Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. All of the states in which our subsidiaries offer insurance and HMO products regulate those products and operations. The states require periodic financial reports and establish minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) has adopted model regulations which where adopted by states, require expanded governance practices and risk and solvency assessment reporting. Most states have adopted these or similar measures to expand the scope of regulations relating to corporate governance and internal control activities of HMOs and insurance companies. We are required to maintain a risk management framework and file a confidential self-assessment report with state insurance regulators. We file reports annually with Connecticut, our lead regulator, and with New York, as required by the state s regulation. Certain states have also adopted their own regulations for minimum MLRs with which health plans must comply. In addition, a number of state legislatures have enacted or are contemplating significant reforms of their health insurance markets, either independent of or to comply with or be eligible for grants or other incentives in connection with the ACA, which may affect our operations and our financial results. Our health plans and insurance companies are regulated under state insurance holding company regulations. Such regulations generally require registration with applicable state departments of insurance and the filing of reports describing capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain affiliated transactions and general business operations. Most state insurance holding company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval of acquisitions and material affiliated transfers of assets, as well as transactions between the regulated companies and their parent holding companies or affiliates. These laws may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding companies. Some of our business activity is subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including PPO, Managed Care Organization (MCO), utilization review (UR), TPA, pharmacy care services, durable medical equipment or care provider-related regulations and licensure requirements. These regulations differ from state to state and may contain network, contracting, product and rate, licensing and financial and reporting requirements. There are laws and regulations which set specific standards for delivery of services, appeals, grievances and payment of claims, adequacy of health care professional networks, fraud prevention, protection of consumer health information, pricing and underwriting practices and covered benefits and services. State health care anti- fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, billing for unnecessary medical services and improper marketing. Certain of our businesses are subject to state general agent, broker and sales distribution laws and regulations. UnitedHealthcare Community & State and certain of our Optum businesses are subject to regulation by state Medicaid agencies who oversee the provision of benefits to our Medicaid and CHIP beneficiaries and to our dually eligible (for Medicare and Medicaid) beneficiaries. We also contract with state governmental entities and are subject to state laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of state government contracts. State Privacy and Security Regulations. A number of states have adopted laws and regulations which may affect our privacy and security practices, such as state laws governing the use, disclosure and protection of social security numbers and protected health information or are designed to implement GLBA or protect credit card account data. State and local authorities increasingly focus on the importance of protecting individuals from identity theft, with a significant number of states enacting laws requiring businesses to meet minimum cyber- security standards and notify individuals of security breaches involving personal information. State consumer protection laws may also apply to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information, including information related to consumers and care providers. Different approaches to state privacy and insurance regulation and varying enforcement philosophies may materially and adversely affect our ability to standardize our products and services across state lines. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with state privacy and security regulations. Corporate Practice of Medicine and Fee-Splitting Laws. Certain of our businesses function as direct medical service providers and, as such, are subject to additional laws and regulations. Some states have corporate practice of medicine laws prohibiting specific types of entities from practicing medicine or employing physicians to practice medicine. Moreover, some states prohibit certain entities from engaging in fee-splitting practices which involve sharing in the fees or revenues of a professional practice. These prohibitions may be statutory or regulatory, or may be imposed through judicial or regulatory interpretation. The laws, regulations and interpretations in certain states have been subject to limited judicial and regulatory interpretation and are subject to change. Pharmacy and Pharmacy Benefits Management (PBM) Regulations OptumRx s businesses include home delivery, specialty and compounding pharmacies, as well as clinic-based pharmacies which must be licensed as pharmacies in the states in which they are located. Certain of our pharmacies must also register with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and individual state controlled substance authorities to dispense controlled substances. In addition to adhering to the laws and regulations in the states where our pharmacies are located, we also are required to comply with laws and regulations in some non-resident states where we deliver pharmaceuticals, including those requiring us to register with the board of pharmacy in the non-resident state. These non-resident states generally expect our pharmacies to follow the laws of the state in which the pharmacies are located, but some non-resident states also require us to comply with their laws where pharmaceuticals are delivered. Additionally, certain of our pharmacies participate in programs for Medicare and state Medicaid providers are required to comply with applicable Medicare and Medicaid provider rules and regulations. Other laws and regulations affecting our pharmacies include federal and state statutes and regulations governing the labeling, packaging, advertising and adulteration of prescription drugs and dispensing of controlled substances. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors for a discussion of the risks related to our pharmacy care services businesses. Federal and state legislation of PBM activities affect both our ability to limit access to a pharmacy provider network or remove network providers. Additionally, many states limit our ability to manage and establish maximum allowable costs for generic prescription drugs. With respect to formulary services, a number of government entities, including CMS, HHS and state departments of insurance, regulate the administration of prescription drug benefits offered through federal or state exchanges. Many states also regulate the scope of prescription drug coverage, as well as the delivery channels to receive such prescriptions, for insurers, MCOs and Medicaid managed care plans. These regulations could limit or preclude (i) certain plan designs, (ii) limited networks, (iii) requirements to use particular care providers or distribution channel, (iv) copayment differentials among providers and (v) formulary tiering practices. Legislation seeking to regulate PBM activities introduced or enacted at the federal or state level could impact our business practices with others in the pharmacy supply chain, including pharmaceutical manufacturers and network providers. Additionally, organizations like the NAIC periodically issue model regulations and credentialing organizations, like the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) and the Utilization Review Accreditation Commission (URAC), may establish standards impacting PBM pharmacy activities. While these model regulations and standards do not have the force of law, they may influence states to adopt their recommendations and impact the services we deliver to our clients. Consumer Protection Laws Certain of our businesses participate in direct-to-consumer activities and are subject to regulations applicable to online communications and other general consumer protection laws and regulations such as the Federal Tort Claims Act, the Federal Postal Service Act and the FTC s Telemarketing Sales Rule. Most states also have similar consumer protection laws. Certain laws, such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, give the FTC, Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ) and state attorneys general the ability to regulate, and bring enforcement actions relating to, telemarketing practices and certain automated outbound contacts such as phone calls, texts or emails. Under certain circumstances, these laws may provide consumers with a private right of action. Violations of these laws could result in substantial statutory penalties and other sanctions. Banking Regulation Optum Bank is subject to regulation by federal banking regulators, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which performs annual examinations to ensure the bank is operating in accordance with federal safety and soundness requirements, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which may perform periodic examinations to ensure the bank is in compliance with applicable consumer protection statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. Optum Bank is also subject to supervision and regulation by the Utah State Department of Financial Institutions which carries out annual examinations to ensure the bank is operating in accordance with state safety and soundness requirements and performs periodic examinations of the bank s compliance with applicable state banking statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. In the event of unfavorable examination results from any of these agencies, the bank could become subject to increased operational expenses and capital requirements, enhanced governmental oversight and monetary penalties. International Regulation Certain of our businesses operate internationally and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or conduct business. These regulatory regimes vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In addition, our non-U.S. businesses and operations are subject to U.S. laws regulating the conduct and activities of U.S.- based businesses operating abroad, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which prohibits offering, promising, providing or authorizing others to give anything of value to a foreign government official to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a business advantage. COMPETITION As a diversified health care company, we operate in highly competitive markets across the full expanse of health care benefits and services, including organizations ranging from startups to highly sophisticated Fortune 50 global enterprises, for-profit and non-profit companies, and private and government-sponsored entities. New entrants and business combinations also contribute to a dynamic and competitive environment. We compete fundamentally on the quality and value we provide to those we serve which can include elements such as product and service innovation use of technology consumer and provider engagement and satisfaction sales, marketing and pricing. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors for additional discussion of our risks related to competition. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS We have obtained trademark registration for the UnitedHealth Group, Optum and UnitedHealthcare names and logos. We own registrations for certain of our other trademarks in the United States and abroad. We hold a portfolio of patents and have patent applications pending from time to time. We are not substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. Unless otherwise noted, trademarks appearing in this report are trademarks owned by us. We disclaim any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others. HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES Our 330,000 employees, as of December 31, 2020, including our more than 125,000 clinical professionals, are guided by our mission to help people live healthier lives and help make the health system work better for everyone. Our mission and cultural values of integrity, compassion, relationships, innovation and performance align with our long-term business strategy to increase access to care, make care more affordable, enhance the care experience and improve health outcomes. Our mission and values attract individuals who are determined to make a difference individuals whose talent, innovation, engagement and empowerment are critical in our ability to achieve our mission. We are committed to developing our people and culture by creating an inclusive environment where people of diverse backgrounds, experiences and perspectives make us better. Our approach is data-driven and leader led, including enterprise and business scorecards ensuring our leaders are accountable for a consistent focus on hiring, developing, advancing and retaining diverse talent. We have embedded inclusion and diversity throughout our culture, including in our talent acquisition and talent management practices leadership development careers learning and skills and systems and processes. We strive to maintain a sustainable and diverse talent pipeline by building strong strategic partnerships and outreach through early career programs, internships and apprenticeships. We support career coaching, mentorship and accelerated leadership development programs to ensure mobility and advancement for our diverse talent. To foster an engaged workforce and an inclusive culture, we invest in a broad array of learning and culture development programs. We rely on a shared leadership framework, which clearly and objectively defines our expectations, enables an environment where everyone has the opportunity to learn and grow, and helps us identify, develop and deploy talent driving us toward achieving our mission. Mr. McMahon is President and Chief Operating Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in this capacity since February 2021. In addition, Mr. McMahon is Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcare and has served in this capacity since June 2019. Mr. McMahon previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Optum from April 2017 to June 2019 and as Executive Vice President, Operations at UnitedHealth Group from November 2014 to April 2017. Mr. McMahon also served as Chief Executive Officer of OptumRx from November 2011 to November 2014. Prior to 2011, he held various positions in UnitedHealthcare in operations, technology and finance. Mr. Rex is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in this capacity since June 2016. From March 2012 to June 2016, Mr. Rex served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Optum. Prior to joining Optum in 2012, Mr. Rex was a Managing Director at JP Morgan, a global financial services firm. Mr. Roos is Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in this capacity since August 2015. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Roos was a Partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, from September 2007 to August 2015. Ms. Lewis is Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in this capacity since October 2019. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Lewis served at Lockheed We prioritize pay equity by regularly evaluating and reviewing our compensation practices by gender, ethnicity and race. Receiving on-going feedback from our team members is another way we help strengthen and reinforce a culture of inclusion. Our Employee Experience Index measures an employee s sense of commitment and belonging to the Company and is a metric in the Stewardship section of our annual incentive plan. Our Sustainability Report, which can be accessed on our website at www.unitedheatlhgroup.com, provides further details on our people and culture. INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of March 1, 2021, including the business experience of each executive officer during the past five years: Andrew P. Witty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer of Optum Dirk C. McMahon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61 President and Chief Operating Officer Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcare John F. Rex . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59 Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer Thomas E. Roos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 Senior Vice President Chief Accounting Officer Patricia L. Lewis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 Executive Vice President Chief Human Resources Officer Our Board of Directors elects executive officers annually. Our executive officers serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation, removal or disqualification. Mr. Witty is Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group and has served in these roles since February 2021. In addition, Mr. Witty is Chief Executive Officer of Optum and has served in this capacity since July 2018. Mr. Witty previously served as President of UnitedHealth Group from November 2019 to February 2021 and as a UnitedHealth Group director from August 2017 to March 2018. From April 2020 to November 2020, Mr. Witty took an unpaid leave of absence from his positions at UnitedHealth Group and Optum to serve as a Global Envoy for the World Health Organization s COVID-19 efforts. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, he was Chief Executive Officer and a board member of GlaxoSmithKline, a global pharmaceutical company, from 2008 to April 2017. Name Age Position Martin where she was Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer from December 2014 to October 2019. Prior to joining Lockheed Martin Corporation, a global security and aerospace company, in 2011, Ms. Lewis held various positions in Human Resources at International Business Machines Corporation, a global technology company, and DuPont De Nemours, Inc, a global diversified chemicals company. Ms. Lewis currently serves as a director of Lear, Inc. Additional Information Our executive offices are located at UnitedHealth Group Center, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343 our telephone number is (952) 936-1300. You can access our website at www.unitedhealthgroup.com to learn more about our company. From the site you can download and print copies of our annual reports to shareholders, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, along with amendments to those reports. You can also download from our website our certificate of incorporation and bylaws corporate governance policies, including our Principles of Governance Board of Directors Committee Charters Code of Conduct and annual sustainability report. We make periodic reports and amendments available, free of charge, on our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We will also provide a copy of any of our corporate governance policies published on our website free of charge, upon request. To request a copy of any of these documents, please submit your request to: UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, MN 55343, Attn: Corporate Secretary. Information on or linked to our website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other SEC filings. Our transfer agent, Equiniti (EQ), can help you with a variety of shareholder-related services, including change of address, lost stock certificates, transfer of stock to another person and other administrative services. You can write to our transfer agent at: EQ Shareowner Services, P.O. Box 64854, St. Paul, Minnesota 55164-0854, or telephone (800) 401-1957 or (651) 450-4064. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS The statements, estimates, projections or outlook contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include forward- looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in future filings by us with the SEC, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, forecast, outlook, plan, project, should or similar words or phrases are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA. These forward- looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement in this report speaks only as of the date of this report and, except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including unanticipated events, after the date of this report. The following discussion contains cautionary statements regarding our business, which investors and others should consider. We do not undertake to address in future filings or communications regarding our business or results of operations how any of these factors may have caused our results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. In addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. Any or all forward- looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. Our forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors discussed below will be important in determining our future results. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions which are difficult to predict or quantify. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We are subject to risks associated with public health crises, large-scale medical emergencies and pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and financial performance. The ongoing COVID-19 global health crisis continues to have major impacts on health systems, businesses, governments and customer and consumer activities. We have mobilized the full strength of our resources to deliver the best care for patients, support for our members and care provider partners, keep our employees safe and deliver innovative solutions and support for the communities we serve and the entire health system. The impact to our business is primarily dependent upon the ultimate pacing, intensity and duration of the crisis, and the timing for widespread availability and effectiveness of a vaccine, factors which remain uncertain at this time. These factors continue to affect the related treatment, testing, coverage and other services we provide for the people we serve. As the crisis abates, we may experience an increase in medical care costs as people seek care which was deferred during the pandemic and individuals with chronic conditions may require additional care needs resulting from missed treatments. The premiums and fees we charge, including premiums dependent upon documented health conditions, may not be sufficient to cover the medical and administrative costs associated with COVID-19 and other care services. In addition, we have experienced and may continue to experience reduced demand for certain services Optum provides to care providers, health plans and employers as a result of reduced clinical and claims activity and changes in business priorities resulting from COVID-19. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in our customers having to close or severely curtail their operations. Among other impacts, we have experienced and may continue to experience loss of commercial and pharmacy care services members due to customer reductions in workforce and an adverse impact on the timing and collectability of premium payments. In addition, governments have modified, and may continue to modify, regulatory standards around various aspects of health care in response to COVID-19, and these changing standards may create challenges for us to ensure timely compliance and meet various contractual obligations. Further disruptions in public and private infrastructure, including supply chains providing medical supplies and pharmaceutical products, could adversely disrupt our business operations or increase our operating costs. Additionally, the enactment of emergency powers by governments could disrupt our business operations, including restricting pharmaceuticals or other supplies, and could increase the risk of shortages of necessary items. Although we cannot predict the pacing, intensity and duration of COVID-19, the pandemic s disruption to business activities, employment and economic effects, and near and long-term impacts on the patterns of care and services across the healthcare system could continue to have material and adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial position or cash flows. If we fail to estimate, price for and manage our medical costs in an effective manner, the profitability of our risk-based products and services could decline and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Through our risk-based benefit products, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. We generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. The profitability of our products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for and effectively manage medical costs. Our OptumHealth business negotiates risk-based arrangements with commercial third-party payers which are also included in premium revenues. Under a typical arrangement, OptumHealth receives a fixed percentage of a third-party payer s premiums to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to members. Premium revenues from risk-based products comprise nearly 80% of our total consolidated revenues. If we fail to predict accurately, or effectively price for or manage, the costs of providing care under risk-based arrangements, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of competitive provider contracts and care management programs. Total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered, the cost of each service and the type of service rendered. Our premium revenue on commercial policies and Medicaid contracts is typically based on a fixed monthly rate per individual served for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to six months before the contract commences. Our revenue on Medicare policies is based on bids submitted to CMS in June the year before the contract year. Although we base the commercial and Medicaid premiums we charge and our Medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period, many factors may cause actual costs to exceed those estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. These factors may include medical cost inflation, increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, large-scale medical emergencies, pandemics, such as COVID-19, the introduction of new or costly drugs, treatments and technology, new treatment guidelines, new mandated benefits (such as the expansion of essential benefits coverage) or other regulatory changes and insured population characteristics. Relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. For example, if our 2020 medical costs for commercial insured products had been 1% higher than our actual medical costs, without proportionally higher revenues from such products, our annual net earnings for 2020 would have been reduced by approximately 290 million, excluding any offsetting impact from risk adjustment or from reduced premium rebates due to minimum MLRs. In addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs incurred for which claims are still outstanding. These estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. If these estimates prove inaccurate, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to maintain properly the integrity or availability of our data or successfully consolidate, integrate, upgrade or expand our existing information systems, or if our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our business is highly dependent on the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to serve our members, customers and health care professionals and to operate our business. The volume of health care data generated, and the uses of data, including electronic health records, are rapidly expanding. Our ability to implement new and innovative services, price adequately our products and services, provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and report accurately our results of operations depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. In addition, connectivity among technologies is becoming increasingly important and recent trends toward greater consumer engagement in health care require new and enhanced technologies, including more sophisticated applications for mobile devices. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. If the data we rely upon to run our businesses is found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could experience failures in our health, wellness and information technology products lose existing customers have difficulty attracting new customers experience problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals become subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties incur increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. We periodically consolidate, integrate, upgrade and expand our information systems capabilities as a result of technology initiatives and recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions. Our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology may not be successful. Failure to protect, consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management s time and energy, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Certain of our businesses sell and install software products which may contain unexpected design defects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer. A failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a seamless fashion with other products could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Uncertain and rapidly evolving U.S. federal and state, non-U.S. and international laws and regulations related to health data and the health information technology market may alter the competitive landscape or present compliance challenges and could materially and adversely affect the configuration of our information systems and platforms, and our ability to compete in this market. If we sustain cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents resulting in security breaches disrupting our operations or resulting in the unintended dissemination of protected personal information or proprietary or confidential information, we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences. We routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data in our operations, including protected personal information subject to privacy, security or data breach notification laws, as well as proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or third parties. Some of the data we process, store and transmit may be outside of the United States due to our information technology systems and international business operations. We are regularly the target of attempted cyber-attacks and other security threats and may be subject to breaches of the information technology systems we use. We have programs in place which are intended to detect, contain and respond to data security incidents and provide employee awareness training regarding phishing, malware and other cyber risks to protect against cyber risks and security breaches. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and are increasing in sophistication, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, detect breaches for long periods of time or implement adequate preventive measures. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our security controls and access, misappropriate or otherwise compromise protected personal information or proprietary or confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause system shutdowns, negatively affecting our operations. They also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs attacking our systems or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities. Hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems which could unexpectedly compromise information security. In addition, we are subject to heightened vulnerability to cybersecurity attacks associated with increased numbers of employees working from home. Our facilities and services may also be vulnerable to security incidents or security attacks acts of vandalism or theft coordinated attacks by activist entities financial fraud schemes misplaced or lost data human error malicious social engineering or other events which could negatively affect our systems, our customers data, proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or third parties, or our operations. In certain circumstances we may rely on third-party vendors to process, store and transmit large amounts of data for our business whose operations are subject to similar risks. The costs to eliminate or address the foregoing security threats and vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be material. Our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. In addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information, proprietary information or confidential information about us or our customers or other third parties, could expose our customers private information and our customers to the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and liability, including regulatory penalties, for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. If we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our businesses compete throughout the United States, South America and other foreign markets and face significant competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. In particular geographies or segments, our competitors, compared to us, may have greater capabilities, resources or market share a more established reputation superior supplier or health care professional arrangements better existing business relationships lower profit margin or financial return expectations or other factors which give such competitors a competitive advantage. Our competitive position may also be adversely affected by significant merger and acquisition activity in the industries in which we operate, both among our competitors and suppliers. Consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase our customer base, improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or maintain or increase profitability. In addition, our success in the health care marketplace will depend on our ability to develop and deliver innovative and potentially disruptive products and services to satisfy evolving market demands. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services, which are useful and relevant to consumers and our customers, we may not remain competitive, and we risk losing market share to existing competitors and disruptive new market entrants. For example, new direct-to-consumer business models from competing businesses may make it more difficult for us to directly engage consumers in the selection and management of their health care benefits and health care usage. We may face challenges from new technologies and market entrants which could affect our existing relationship with health plan enrollees in these areas. Any failure by us to continue to develop innovative care models could result in competitive disadvantages and loss of market share. Our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services demonstrating value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect or declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products. If we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals and other service providers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and other service providers at competitive prices. Any failure by us to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, certain activities related to network design, provider participation in networks and provider payments could result in disputes, which may be costly, divert management s attention from our operations and result in negative publicity. In any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions which could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician and hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies which could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. In addition, ACOs practice management companies (which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency) and other organizational structures adopted by physicians, hospitals and other care providers may change the way in which these providers do business with us and may change the competitive landscape. Such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which could adversely affect our business, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows by impacting our relationships with these providers or affecting the way we price our products and estimate our costs, which might require us to incur costs to change our operations. In addition, if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected. Our health care benefits businesses have risk-based arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. These arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the health care provider. To the extent a risk-based health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims which should have been the responsibility of the health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider. Further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts could result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. Health care providers with which we contract may not properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. Some providers render services to our members who do not have contracts with us. In those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding about the amount of compensation due to the provider for services rendered to our members. In some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances the amount is either not defined or is established by a standard which does not clearly specify dollar terms. In some instances, providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. The success of some of our businesses, including OptumHealth and UnitedHealthcare Global, depend on maintaining satisfactory relationships with physicians as our employees, independent contractors or joint venture partners. The physicians who practice medicine or contract with our affiliated physician organizations could terminate their provider contracts or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with us. We face and will likely continue to face heightened competition in the markets where we operate to acquire or manage physician practices or to employ or contract with individual physicians. If we are unable to maintain or grow satisfactory relationships with physicians, or to acquire, recruit or, in some instances, employ physicians, or to retain enrollees following the departure of a physician, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our affiliated physician organizations contract with competitors of UnitedHealthcare. Our businesses could suffer if our affiliated physician organizations fail to maintain relationships with these companies, or fail to adequately price their contracts with these third-party payers. In addition, physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and certain health care providers are customers of our Optum businesses. Physicians also provide medical services at facilities owned by our Optum businesses. Given the importance of health care providers and other constituents to our businesses, failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We are routinely subject to various legal actions due to the nature of our business, which could damage our reputation and, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties or monetary damages and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to, among other matters, the design, management and delivery of our product and service offerings. These matters have included or could in the future include matters related to health care benefits coverage and payment claims (including disputes with enrollees, customers and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort claims (including claims related to the delivery of health care services, such as medical malpractice by staff at our affiliates facilities, or by health care practitioners who are employed by us, have contractual relationships with us, or serve as providers to our managed care networks), whistleblower claims (including claims under the False Claims Act or similar statutes), contract and labor disputes, tax claims and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. We may also be party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups and consumers. In addition, we operate in jurisdictions outside of the United States where contractual rights, tax positions and applicable regulations may be subject to interpretation or uncertainty to a greater degree than in the United States, and therefore subject to dispute by customers, government authorities or others. We are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. While we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. Although we record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters, it is possible the level of actual losses will significantly exceed the liabilities recorded. We cannot predict the outcome of significant legal actions in which we are involved and are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. The legal actions we face or may face in the future could further increase our cost of doing business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, certain legal actions could result in adverse publicity which could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our ability to retain our current business or grow our market share in some markets and businesses. Any failure by us to manage successfully our strategic alliances or complete, manage or integrate acquisitions and other significant strategic transactions or relationships domestically or outside the United States could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. For example, we have a strategic alliance with AARP under which we provide AARP-branded Medicare Supplement insurance to AARP members and other AARP-branded products and services to Medicare beneficiaries. If we fail to meet the needs of our alliance or joint venture partners, including by developing additional products and services, providing high levels of service, pricing our products and services competitively or responding effectively to applicable federal and state regulatory changes, our alliances and joint ventures could be damaged or terminated which in turn could adversely impact our reputation, business and results of operations. Further, if we fail to identify and successfully complete transactions, which further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Success in completing acquisitions is also dependent on effectively integrating the acquired business into our existing operations, including our internal control environment and culture, or otherwise leveraging its operations which may present challenges different from those presented by organic growth and may be difficult for us to manage. In addition, even with appropriate diligence, pre-acquisition practices of an acquired business may expose us to legal challenges and investigations. For example, in January 2021, an indictment for alleged violations of antitrust laws was issued by the DOJ against our subsidiary, Surgical Care Affiliates (SCA), based on conduct alleged to have begun more than five years prior to our acquisition. We are vigorously defending this lawsuit, but if SCA is found liable, we may be subject to criminal fines or reputational harm. If we cannot successfully integrate these acquisitions and realize contemplated revenue growth opportunities and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. As we expand and operate our business outside of the United States, we are presented with challenges differing from those presented by acquisitions of domestic businesses, including challenges in adapting to new markets, languages, business, labor and cultural practices and regulatory environments. Adapting to these challenges could require us to devote significant senior management attention and other resources to the acquired businesses before we realize anticipated synergies or other benefits from the acquired businesses. These challenges vary widely by country and, outside of the United States, may include political instability, government intervention, discriminatory regulation and currency exchange controls or other restrictions, which could prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which our acquired businesses operate, or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies. If we are unable to manage successfully our non-U.S. acquisitions, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our shareholders equity from period to period, which could adversely affect our debt to debt-plus-equity ratio, and our future revenues, costs and cash flows from international operations. Any measures we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies may be costly or ineffective. Our sales performance will suffer if we do not adequately attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent producers and consultants. Our products and services are sold in part through nonexclusive producers and consultants for whose services and allegiance we must compete. Our sales would be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to attract, retain and support such independent producers and consultants or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. Our relationships with producers could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in our business practices and the nature of our relationships to address these pressures, including potential reductions in commission levels. Unfavorable economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions may impact demand for certain of our products and services. For example, high unemployment has caused lower enrollment or lower rates of renewal in our employer group benefits and pharmacy services plans. Unfavorable economic conditions also have caused and could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact our ability to increase premiums or result in the cancellation by certain customers of our products and services. These conditions could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. During a prolonged unfavorable economic environment, state and federal budgets could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and CHIP. A reduction in state Medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retroactively to apply to payments already negotiated or received from the government and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the affected governments to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on health insurance and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims. Any of these developments or actions could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. A prolonged unfavorable economic environment also could adversely impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers which could materially and adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs or materially and adversely affect their ability to purchase our service offerings. Further, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact the customers of our Optum businesses, including health plans, hospitals, care providers, employers and others which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect Optum s financial results. Our failure to attract, develop, retain, and manage the succession of key employees and executives could adversely affect our business, results of operations and future performance. We are dependent on our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified employees and executives, including those with diverse backgrounds, experiences and skill sets, to operate and expand our business. Experienced and highly skilled employees and executives in the health care and technology industries are in high demand and the market for their services is extremely competitive. We may have difficulty in replacing key executives because of the limited number of qualified individuals in these industries with the breadth of skills and experience required to operate and successfully expand our business. In addition, we believe our corporate culture fosters integrity, compassion, relationships, innovation and performance. Adverse changes to our corporate culture could harm our business operations and our ability to retain key employees and executives. While we have development and succession plans in place for our key employees and executives, these plans do not guarantee the services of our key employees and executives will continue to be available to us. If we are unable to attract, develop, retain and effectively manage the development and succession plans for key employees and executives, our business, results of operations and future performance could be adversely affected. Our investment portfolio may suffer losses which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Market fluctuations could impair our profitability and capital position. Volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities which constitute the vast majority of the fair value of our investments as of December 31, 2020. Relatively low interest rates on investments, such as those experienced during recent years, have adversely impacted our investment income. In addition, a delay in payment of principal or interest by issuers, or defaults by issuers (primarily issuers of our investments in corporate and municipal bonds), could reduce our investment income and require us to write down the value of our investments which could adversely affect our profitability and equity. There can be no assurance our investments will produce total positive returns or we will not sell investments at prices which are less than their carrying values. Changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, changes in issuer financial conditions, illiquidity or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our equity. In addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, such an action could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the capital position of our regulated subsidiaries. If the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, equity and credit ratings could be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2020, our goodwill and other intangible assets had a carrying value of 82 billion, representing 42% of our total consolidated assets. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. The value of our goodwill may be materially and adversely impacted if businesses we acquire perform in a manner inconsistent with our assumptions. In addition, from time to time we divest businesses, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in equity could, in turn, adversely affect our credit ratings. If we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases, software and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. These legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. In addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. Such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Any downgrades in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims paying ability, financial strength and debt ratings by Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used by customers and creditors. We believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. Our credit ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. Each of the credit rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically. Our ratings reflect each credit rating agency s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. There can be no assurance our current credit ratings will be maintained in the future. Any downgrades in our credit ratings could materially increase our costs of or ability to access funds in the debt capital markets and otherwise materially increase our operating costs. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business Our business activities are highly regulated and new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could materially and adversely affect our business. We are regulated by federal, state and local governments in the United States and other countries where we do business. Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. For example, states require periodic financial reports and enforce minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. Health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations and some of our activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including those relating to PPOs, MCOs, UR and TPA-related regulations and licensure requirements. Under state guaranty association laws, certain insurance companies can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of impaired or insolvent insurance companies who write the same line or similar lines of business. Any such assessment could expose our insurance entities and other insurers to the risk they would be required to pay a portion of an impaired or insolvent insurance company s claims through state guaranty associations. Certain of our businesses provide products or services to various government agencies. For example, some of our Optum and UnitedHealthcare businesses hold government contracts or provide services related to government contracts and are subject to U.S. federal and state and non U.S. self-referral, anti-kickback, medical necessity, risk adjustment, false claims and other laws and regulations governing government contractors and the use of government funds. Our relationships with these government agencies are subject to the terms of contracts we hold with the agencies and to laws and regulations regarding government contracts. Among others, certain laws and regulations restrict or prohibit companies from performing work for government agencies which might be viewed as an actual or potential conflict of interest. These laws may limit our ability to pursue and perform certain types of work, thereby materially and adversely affecting our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Certain of our Optum businesses are also subject to regulations distinct from those faced by our insurance and HMO subsidiaries, some of which could impact our relationships with physicians, hospitals and customers. These regulations include state telemedicine regulations debt collection laws banking regulations distributor and producer licensing requirements state corporate practice of medicine doctrines fee-splitting rules and health care facility licensure and certificate of need requirements. These risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our ability to market or provide our products and services, or to do so at targeted operating margins, or may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate. The laws and rules governing our businesses and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. For example, legislative, administrative and public policy changes to the ACA are being considered, and we cannot predict if the ACA will be further modified. Litigation challenges have been brought seeking to invalidate the ACA in whole or in part. A federal appeals court struck down the ACA as in part unconstitutional in 2019. During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Supreme Court heard oral arguments in the case. Further, the integration into our businesses of entities we acquire may affect the way in which existing laws and rules apply to us, including by subjecting us to laws and rules which did not previously apply to us. The broad latitude given to the agencies administering, interpreting and enforcing current and future regulations governing our businesses could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, or expose us to increased liability in courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. We also must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products and services, increase prices for certain regulated products and services and complete certain acquisitions and dispositions or integrate certain acquisitions. For example, premium rates for our health insurance and managed care products are subject to regulatory review or approval in many states and by the federal government. Additionally, we must submit data on all proposed rate increases on many of our products to HHS for monitoring purposes. Geographic and product expansions of our businesses may be subject to state and federal regulatory approvals. Delays in obtaining necessary approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain adequate approvals could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Certain of our businesses operate internationally and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or conduct business. These regulatory regimes encompass, among other matters, local and cross- border taxation, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, investment, capital (including minimum solvency margin and reserve requirements), management control, labor, anti-fraud, anti-corruption and privacy and data protection regulations (including requirements for cross-border data transfers) which vary by jurisdiction. We currently operate outside of the United States and in the future may acquire or commence additional businesses based outside of the United States, increasing our exposure to non-U.S. regulatory regimes. For example, our UnitedHealthcare Global business subjects us to Brazilian laws and regulations affecting hospitals, managed care and insurance industries and to regulation by Brazilian regulators, including the national regulatory agency for private health insurance and plans, the Ag ncia Nacional de Sa de Suplementar, while our Banm dica business is subject to Chilean, Colombian and Peruvian laws, regulations and regulators applicable to hospitals and private insurance. Any international regulator may take an approach to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of industry regulations which could differ from the approach taken by U.S. regulators. In addition, our non-U.S. businesses and operations are subject to U.S. laws regulating the conduct and activities of U.S.- based businesses operating abroad, such as the FCPA, which prohibits offering, promising, providing or authorizing others to give anything of value to a foreign government official to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a business advantage. Our failure to comply with U.S. or non-U.S. laws and regulations governing our conduct outside the United States or to establish constructive relations with non-U.S. regulators could adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted operating margins which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The health care industry is regularly subject to negative publicity, including as a result of governmental investigations, adverse media coverage and political debate surrounding industry regulation. Negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation in various markets. As a result of our participation in various government health care programs, both as a payer and as a service provider to payers, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments, audits and government investigations which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We participate in various federal, state and local government health care benefit programs, including as a payer in Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, various Medicaid programs and CHIP, and receive substantial revenues from these programs. Certain of our Optum businesses also provide services to payers participating in government health care programs. A reduction or less than expected increase, or a protracted delay, in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies, or termination of the contract at the option of the government, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The government health care programs in which we participate generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes which may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible for coverage, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, reduce our participation in certain service areas or markets, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. Revenues for these programs depend on periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. Funding for these government programs depends on many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level. For example, CMS has in the past reduced or frozen Medicare Advantage benchmarks, and additional cuts to Medicare Advantage benchmarks are possible. In addition, from time to time, CMS makes changes to the way it calculates Medicare Advantage risk adjustment payments. Although we have adjusted members benefits and premiums on a selective basis, ceased to offer benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and operating cost management in response to the benchmark reductions and other funding pressures, these or other strategies may not fully address the funding pressures in the Medicare Advantage program. In addition, payers in the Medicare Advantage program may be subject to reductions in payments from CMS as a result of decreased funding or recoupment pursuant to government audit. Under the Medicaid managed care program, state Medicaid agencies seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care Medicaid health programs. If we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state Medicaid managed care contracts, we risk losing the members who were enrolled in those Medicaid plans. Under the Medicare Part D program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a regional benchmark, which is calculated by the government after all regional bids are submitted. If the enrollee premium is not below the government benchmark, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. In general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs and other factors. If any of these assumptions is materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the programs on which we bid, implementation of material program or policy changes after our bid submission, or submission by our competitors at lower rates than our bids, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Many of the government health care coverage programs in which we participate are subject to the prior satisfaction of certain conditions or performance standards or benchmarks. For example, as part of the ACA, CMS has a system providing various quality bonus payments to Medicare Advantage plans meeting certain quality star ratings at the individual plan or local contract level. The star rating system considers various measures adopted by CMS, including, among others, quality of care, preventive services, chronic illness management, handling of appeals and customer satisfaction. Plans must have a rating of four stars or higher to qualify for bonus payments. If we do not maintain or continue to improve our star ratings, our plans may not be eligible for quality bonuses and we may experience a negative impact on our revenues and the benefits our plans can offer, which could materially and adversely affect the marketability of our plans, our membership levels, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Any changes in standards or care delivery models applying to government health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, or our inability to improve our quality scores and star ratings to meet government performance requirements or to match the performance of our competitors could result in limitations to our participation in or exclusion from these or other government programs, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. CMS uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for Medicare programs, including adjustment of monthly capitation payments to Medicare Advantage plans and Medicare Part D plans according to the predicted health status of each beneficiary as supported by data from health care providers for Medicare Advantage plans, as well as, for Medicare Part D plans, risk-sharing provisions based on a comparison of costs predicted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs. Some state Medicaid programs utilize a similar process. For example, our UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement and UnitedHealthcare Community & State businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to CMS or state agencies for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. CMS and the Office of Inspector General for HHS periodically perform risk adjustment data validation (RADV) audits of selected Medicare health plans to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers. Certain of our local plans have been selected for such audits, which in the past have resulted and in the future could result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to our health plans, fines, corrective action plans or other adverse action by CMS. We have been and may in the future become involved in routine, regular and special governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments. Such investigations, audits, reviews or assessments sometimes arise out of, or prompt claims by private litigants or whistleblowers who, among other allegations, we failed to disclose certain business practices or, as a government contractor, submitted false or erroneous claims to the government. Governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments could lead to government actions, which have resulted in, and in the future could result in, adverse publicity, the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our businesses providing pharmacy care services face regulatory and operational risks and uncertainties which may differ from the risks of our other businesses. We provide pharmacy care services through our OptumRx and UnitedHealthcare businesses. Each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback, beneficiary inducement and other laws governing the relationships of the business with pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, pharmacies, customers and consumers. In addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry which could materially affect current industry practices, including potential new legislation and regulations regarding the receipt or disclosure of rebates and other fees from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies and other utilization management tools, the use of average wholesale prices or other pricing benchmarks, pricing for specialty pharmaceuticals, limited access to networks and pharmacy network reimbursement methodologies. Additionally, various governmental agencies have conducted investigations into certain PBM practices, which have resulted in other PBMs agreeing to civil penalties, including the payment of money and entry into corporate integrity agreements. As a provider of pharmacy benefit management services, OptumRx is also subject to an increasing number of licensure, registration and other laws and accreditation standards impacting the business practices of a pharmacy benefit manager. OptumRx also conducts business through home delivery, specialty and compounding pharmacies, pharmacies located in community mental health centers and home infusion, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those of the DEA and individual state controlled substance authorities, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Boards of Pharmacy. We could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our home delivery, specialty or compounding or clinic-based pharmacies or the provision of home infusion services, including as a result of the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. Disruptions from any of our home delivery, specialty pharmacy or home infusion services could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, our pharmacy care services businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans subject to ERISA. A private party or the DOL, which is the agency who enforces ERISA, could assert the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our pharmacy care services businesses even where those businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. If a court were to determine fiduciary obligations apply, we could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or claims we entered into certain prohibited transactions. If we fail to comply with applicable privacy, security and data laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers utilizing protected personal information on our behalf, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of protected personal information is regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and requirements are imposed on us by contracts with customers. These laws, rules and requirements are subject to change. Compliance with new privacy and security laws, regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain or require us to alter our business model or operations. Internationally, many of the jurisdictions in which we operate have established their own data security and privacy legal framework with which we or our customers must comply. We expect there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection and information security in the European Union, Brazil, Chile, India and other jurisdictions, and we cannot yet determine the impacts such future laws, regulations and standards may have on our businesses or the businesses of our customers. For example, effective May 2018, the European Union s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) overhauled data protection laws in the European Union. The new regulation superseded prior European Union privacy and data protection legislation, imposed more stringent European Union data protection requirements on us or our customers, and prescribed greater penalties for noncompliance. Brazilian privacy legislation, similar in certain respects to GDPR, took effect in August 2020. Many of our businesses are also subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which is a multifaceted security standard designed to protect payment card account data. HIPAA requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. While we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. Several of our businesses act as business associates to their covered entity customers and, as a result, collect, use, disclose and maintain protected personal information in order to provide services to these customers. HHS administers its audit program to assess HIPAA compliance efforts by covered entities and business associates. An audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Through our Optum businesses, including our Optum Labs business, we maintain a database of administrative and clinical data statistically de-identified in accordance with HIPAA standards. Noncompliance or findings of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, or the occurrence of any privacy or security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of protected personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business and, among other consequences, could subject us to mandatory disclosure to the media, loss of existing or new customers, significant increases in the cost of managing and remediating privacy or security incidents and material fines, penalties and litigation awards. Any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our regulated subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent on dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. Many of these subsidiaries are regulated by state departments of insurance or similar regulatory authorities. We are also required by law or regulation to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. The levels of capitalization required depend primarily on the volume of premium revenues generated by the applicable subsidiary. In most states, we are required to seek approval by state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries exceeding specified amounts. An inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies in the desired amounts or at the time of our choosing could adversely affect our ability to reinvest in our business through capital expenditures or business acquisitions, as well as our ability to maintain our corporate quarterly dividend payment, repurchase shares of our common stock and repay our debt. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ITEM 2. PROPERTIES To support our business operations in the United States and other countries we own and lease real properties. Our various reportable segments use these facilities for their respective business purposes, and we believe these current facilities are suitable for their respective uses and are adequate for our anticipated future needs. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The information required by this Item 3 is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under the captions Legal Matters and Governmental Investigations, Audits and Reviews in Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not Applicable. ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES MARKET AND HOLDERS Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol UNH. On January 29, 2021, there were 11,085 registered holders of record of our common stock. DIVIDEND POLICY In June 2020, the Company s Board of Directors increased the Company s quarterly cash dividend to shareholders to an annual rate of 5.00 compared to 4.32 per share, which the Company had paid since June 2019. Declaration and payment of future quarterly dividends is at the discretion of the Board and may be adjusted as business needs or market conditions change. ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES In November 1997, our Board of Directors adopted a share repurchase program, which the Board evaluates periodically. There is no established expiration date for the program. During the fourth quarter of 2020, we repurchased 5.1 million shares at an average price of 334.54 per share. As of December 31, 2020, we had Board authorization to purchase up to 58 million shares of our common stock. PERFORMANCE GRAPH The following performance graph compares the cumulative five-year total return to shareholders on our common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the S&P Health Care Index, the Dow Jones US Industrial Average Index and the S&P 500 index for the five-year period ended December 31, 2020. The comparisons assume the investment of 100 on December 31, 2015 in our common stock and in each index, and dividends were reinvested when paid. UnitedHealth Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100.00 138.41 193.52 221.63 265.92 322.31 S&P Health Care Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100.00 97.31 118.79 126.47 152.81 173.36 Dow Jones US Industrial Average . . . . . . . . . . . 100.00 116.50 149.24 144.05 180.56 198.11 S&P 500 Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100.00 111.96 136.40 130.42 171.49 203.04 The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Not applicable. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN Among UnitedHealth Group, the S&P Health Care Index, the Dow Jones US Industrial Average Index and the S&P 500 Index 12 15 12 16 12 17 12 18 12 20 12 19 S&P Health Care UnitedHealth Group Dow Jones US Industrial Average 12 15 12 16 12 17 12 18 12 19 12 20 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read together with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements thereto included in Part II Item 8, Financial Statements. Readers are cautioned the statements, estimates, projections or outlook contained in this report, including discussions regarding financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties contained in this Item 7, may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the PSLRA. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found further below in this Item 7 and in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Discussions of year-over-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018 are not included in this Form 10-K and can be found in Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Company s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health care company with a mission to help people live healthier lives and help make the health system work better for everyone. Our two complementary businesses Optum and UnitedHealthcare are driven by this unified mission and vision to improve health care access, affordability, experiences and outcomes for the individuals and organizations we are privileged to serve. We have four reportable segments across our two business platforms, Optum and UnitedHealthcare: OptumHealth OptumInsight OptumRx and UnitedHealthcare, which includes UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement, UnitedHealthcare Community & State and UnitedHealthcare Global. Further information on our business and reportable segments is presented in Part I, Item 1, Business and in Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements. COVID-19 Trends and Uncertainties The COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve and the ultimate impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows remains uncertain. During the second quarter, the global health system experienced unprecedented levels of care deferral, which impacted all of our businesses. As the pandemic advanced, access to and demand for care was most constrained from mid-March through April, began to recover in May and June and restored to near normal seasonal levels in the third quarter. Care patterns continued to normalize in the fourth quarter, returning to, and even exceeding, seasonal baselines, including COVID-19 treatment and testing costs, towards the end of the quarter. The temporary deferral of care experienced in 2020 may cause care patterns to moderately exceed normal baselines in future periods as utilization of health system capacity continues to increase. From time to time, health system capacity may be subject to possible increased volatility due to the pandemic. Specific trends and uncertainties related to our two business platforms are as follows: Optum. The temporary deferral of care impacted the Optum businesses for the year ended December 31, 2020. For example, our fee-for-service care delivery business, such as traditional procedure work at our ambulatory surgery centers, was negatively impacted, while our risk-based care delivery business performance reflected lower demand for care. Our OptumInsight and OptumRx volume-based businesses were negatively impacted by the lower level of care encounters which took place, as well as by broader economic factors, contributing to lower managed services and prescription volume. As the health system returned to normal seasonally adjusted levels of care, we have seen business activity approach normal levels. COVID-19 will also continue to influence customer and consumer behavior, both during and after the pandemic, which could impact how care is delivered and the manner in which consumers wish to receive their prescription drugs or infusion services. The impact of COVID-19 on our care provider and payer clients could impact the volume and types of services Optum provides, as well as the pacing of potential new business opportunities. As a result of the dynamic situation and broad-reaching impact to the health system, the ultimate impact of COVID-19 on our Optum businesses is uncertain. UnitedHealthcare. During 2020, we expanded benefit coverage in areas such as COVID-19 care and testing, telemedicine, and pharmacy benefits provided customers assistance in the form of co-pay waivers and premium forgiveness offered additional enrollment opportunities to those who previously declined employer-sponsored offerings extended certain premium payment terms for customers experiencing financial hardship simplified administrative practices and accelerated payments to care providers, all with the aim of assisting our customers, care providers, members and communities in addressing the COVID-19 crisis. Temporary care deferrals significantly impacted UnitedHealthcare s results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020. The impact of temporary care deferrals was offset by COVID-19 related care and testing, the significant financial assistance we provided our customers, rebate requirements and broader economic impacts. Enrollment in our commercial products declined primarily due to employer actions in response to the pandemic. Increased consumer demand for care, potentially even higher acuity care, along with continued COVID-19 care and testing costs are expected to result in increased future medical costs. Disrupted care patterns, as a result of the pandemic, may temporarily affect the ability to obtain complete member health status information, impacting future revenue in businesses utilizing risk adjustment methodologies. The ultimate overall impact is uncertain and dependent on the future pacing and intensity of the pandemic, the duration of policies and initiatives to address COVID-19, and general economic uncertainty. Business Trends Our businesses participate in the United States, South America and certain other international health markets. In the United States, health care spending has grown consistently for many years and comprises 18% of gross domestic product (GDP). We expect overall spending on health care to continue to grow in the future, due to inflation, medical technology and pharmaceutical advancement, regulatory requirements, demographic trends in the population and national interest in health and well-being. The rate of market growth may be affected by a variety of factors, including macro-economic conditions, such as the economic impact of COVID-19, and regulatory changes, which could impact our results of operations, including our continued efforts to control health care costs. Pricing Trends. To price our health care benefit products, we start with our view of expected future costs, including any potential impacts from COVID-19. We frequently evaluate and adjust our approach in each of the local markets we serve, considering relevant factors, such as product positioning, price competitiveness and environmental, competitive, legislative and regulatory considerations, including minimum MLR thresholds. We will continue seeking to balance growth and profitability across all of these dimensions. The commercial risk market remains highly competitive in both the small group and large group segments. We expect broad-based competition to continue as the industry adapts to individual and employer needs. The ACA had an annual, nondeductible insurance industry tax (Health Insurance Industry Tax) to be levied proportionally Delivery System and Payment Modernization. The health care market continues to change based on demographic shifts, new regulations, political forces and both payer and patient expectations. Health plans and care providers are being called upon to work together to close gaps in care and improve overall care quality, improve the health of populations and reduce costs. We continue to see a greater number of people enrolled in plans with underlying performance-based care provider payment models rewarding high-quality, affordable care and foster collaboration. We work together with clinicians to leverage our data and analytics to provide the necessary information to close gaps in care and improve overall health outcomes for patients. We are increasingly rewarding care providers for delivering improvements in quality and cost-efficiency. As of December 31, 2020, we served nearly 18 million people through some form of aligned contractual arrangement, including full-risk, shared-risk and bundled episode-of-care and performance incentive payment approaches. This trend is creating needs for health management services which can coordinate care around the primary care physician, including new primary care channels, and for investments in new clinical and administrative information and management systems, which we believe provide growth opportunities for our Optum business platform. Regulatory Trends and Uncertainties Following is a summary of management s view of the trends and uncertainties related to some of the key provisions of the ACA and other regulatory matters. For additional information regarding the ACA and regulatory trends and uncertainties, see Part I, Item 1 Business Government Regulation and Item 1A, Risk Factors. Medicare Advantage Rates. Final 2021 Medicare Advantage rates resulted in an increase in industry base rates of approximately 1.7%, short of the industry forward medical cost trend, creating continued pressure in the Medicare Advantage program. The ongoing Medicare Advantage funding pressure places continued importance on effective medical management and ongoing improvements in administrative efficiency. There are a number of adjustments we have made to partially offset these rate pressures and reductions. In some years, these adjustments impact the across the insurance industry for risk-based health insurance products. Pricing for contracts covering some portion of calendar year 2021 reflected the permanent repeal of the Health Insurance Industry Tax. Medicare Advantage funding continues to be pressured, as discussed below in Regulatory Trends and Uncertainties. We expect Medicaid revenue growth due to anticipated changes in mix and increases in the number of people we serve we also believe the payment rate environment creates the risk of continued downward pressure on Medicaid margin percentages. We continue to take a prudent, market-sustainable posture for both new business and maintenance of existing relationships. We continue to advocate for actuarially sound rates commensurate with our medical cost trends and we remain dedicated to partnering with those states who are committed to the long-term viability of their programs. Medical Cost Trends. Our medical cost trends primarily relate to changes in unit costs, health system utilization and prescription drug costs. COVID-19 care and testing costs and certain of our customer assistance initiatives have also impacted medical cost trends in the current year and may continue in future years. We endeavor to mitigate those increases by engaging physicians and consumers with information and helping them make clinically sound choices, with the objective of helping them achieve high-quality, affordable care. The uncertain impact of COVID-19 may impact our ability to estimate medical costs payable, which could result in increased variability to medical cost reserve development in future periods. majority of the seniors we serve through Medicare Advantage. For example, we seek to intensify our medical and operating cost management, make changes to the size and composition of our care provider networks, adjust members benefits and implement or increase the member premiums supplementing the monthly payments we receive from the government. Additionally, we decide annually on a county-by-county basis where we will offer Medicare Advantage plans. Our Medicare Advantage rates are currently enhanced by CMS quality bonuses in certain counties based on our local plans Star ratings. The level of Star ratings from CMS, based upon specified clinical and operational performance standards, will impact future quality bonuses. ACA Tax. After a moratorium in 2019, the industry-wide amount of the Health Insurance Industry Tax for 2020, which was primarily borne by customers, was 15.5 billion, with our portion being approximately 3.0 billion. The return of the tax impacted year-over-year comparability of our financial statements, including revenues, operating costs, medical care ratio (MCR), operating cost ratio, effective tax rate and cash flows from operations. The Health Insurance Industry Tax was permanently repealed by Congress, effective January 1, 2021. SELECTED OPERATING PERFORMANCE ITEMS The following represents a summary of select 2020 year-over-year operating comparisons to 2019. Consolidated revenues increased by 6%, UnitedHealthcare revenues increased 4% and Optum revenues grew 21%. UnitedHealthcare served 420,000 fewer people domestically primarily due to increased unemployment and attrition in commercial group benefits, partially offset by growth in government programs. Earnings from operations increased by 14%, including increases of 20% at UnitedHealthcare and 7% at Optum. Diluted earnings per common share increased 12% to 16.03. Cash flows from operations were 22.2 billion, an increase of 20%. Return on equity was 24.9%. RESULTS SUMMARY The following table summarizes our consolidated results of operations and other financial information: (in millions, except percentages and per share data) Revenues: Premiums . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201,478 189,699 178,087 11,779 6% Products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34,145 31,597 29,601 2,548 8 Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20,016 18,973 17,183 1,043 5 Investment and other income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,502 1,886 1,376 (384) (20) Total revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257,141 242,155 226,247 14,986 6 Operating costs: Medical costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 159,396 156,440 145,403 2,956 2 Operating costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41,704 35,193 34,074 6,511 19 Cost of products sold . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30,745 28,117 26,998 2,628 9 Depreciation and amortization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,891 2,720 2,428 171 6 Total operating costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 234,736 222,470 208,903 12,266 6 Earnings from operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22,405 19,685 17,344 2,720 14 Interest expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,663) (1,704) (1,400) 41 (2) Earnings before income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20,742 17,981 15,944 2,761 15 Provision for income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (4,973) (3,742) (3,562) (1,231) 33 Net earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,769 14,239 12,382 1,530 11 Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests . . . . . . . . (366) (400) (396) 34 (9) Net earnings attributable to UnitedHealth Group common shareholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,403 13,839 11,986 1,564 11% Diluted earnings per share attributable to UnitedHealth Group common shareholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.03 14.33 12.19 1.70 12% Medical care ratio (a) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79.1% 82.5% 81.6% (3.4)% Operating cost ratio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.2 14.5 15.1 1.7 Operating margin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.7 8.1 7.7 0.6 Tax rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24.0 20.8 22.3 3.2 Net earnings margin (b) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.0 5.7 5.3 0.3 Return on equity (c) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24.9% 25.7% 24.4% (0.8)% (a) Medical care ratio is calculated as medical costs divided by premium revenue. (b) Net earnings margin attributable to UnitedHealth Group shareholders. (c) Return on equity is calculated as net earnings attributable to UnitedHealth Group common shareholders divided by average shareholders equity. Average shareholders equity is calculated using the shareholders equity balance at the end of the preceding year and the shareholders equity balances at the end of each of the four quarters of the year presented. 2020 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COMPARED TO 2019 RESULTS Consolidated Financial Results The increases in revenue were primarily driven by the increase in the number of individuals served through Medicare Advantage and Medicaid pricing trends and organic and acquisition growth across the Optum business, primarily due to expansion in pharmacy care services and care delivery. The increases were partially For the Years Ended December 31, Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs. 2019 offset by decreased individuals served through our commercial and Global benefits businesses, certain voluntary customer assistance programs and rebate requirements. Revenues were also negatively impacted by decreases in our fee-for-service care delivery and other volume-based businesses, primarily as a result of the care deferral and economic impacts of COVID-19. Medical Costs and MCR Medical costs increased as a result of growth in people served through Medicare Advantage and Medicaid, medical cost trends and COVID-19 care and testing costs, partially offset by decreased people served in commercial and Global, modestly lower care patterns and increased prior year favorable development. The MCR decreased primarily due to the temporary deferral of care and the revenue effects of the return of the Health Insurance Industry Tax, partially offset by COVID-19 care and testing costs, rebate requirements and voluntary customer assistance measures. Operating Cost Ratio The operating cost ratio increased primarily due to the impact of the return of the Health Insurance Industry Tax, COVID-19 response efforts and business mix, partially offset by operating efficiency gains. Income Tax Rate Our effective tax rate increased primarily due to the impact of the return of the nondeductible Health Insurance Industry Tax. Reportable Segments See Note 14 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements for more information on our segments. We utilize various metrics to evaluate and manage our reportable segments, including individuals served by UnitedHealthcare by major market segment and funding arrangement, people served by OptumHealth and adjusted scripts for OptumRx. These metrics are the main drivers of revenue, earnings and cash flows at each business. The metrics also allow management and investors to evaluate and understand business mix, customer penetration and pricing trends when comparing the metrics to revenue by segment. The following table presents a summary of the reportable segment financial information: (in millions, except percentages) 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs. 2019 Revenues UnitedHealthcare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200,875 193,842 183,476 7,033 4% Optum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 136,308 112,950 101,280 23,358 21 Eliminations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (80,042) (64,637) (58,509) (15,405) 24 Consolidated revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257,141 242,155 226,247 14,986 6% Earnings from operations UnitedHealthcare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12,359 10,326 9,113 2,033 20% Optum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,046 9,359 8,231 687 7 Consolidated earnings from operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22,405 19,685 17,344 2,720 14% Operating margin UnitedHealthcare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.2% 5.3% 5.0% 0.9% OptumHealth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.6 9.8 10.1 (1.2) OptumInsight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25.2 24.9 24.9 0.3 OptumRx . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.4 5.3 5.1 (0.9) Optum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.4 8.3 8.1 (0.9) Consolidated operating margin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.7% 8.1% 7.7% 0.6% (in millions, except percentages) 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs. 2019 UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55,872 56,945 54,761 (1,073) (2)% UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90,764 83,252 75,473 7,512 9 UnitedHealthcare Community & State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46,487 43,790 43,426 2,697 6 UnitedHealthcare Global . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,752 9,855 9,816 (2,103) (21) UnitedHealthcare The following table summarizes UnitedHealthcare revenues by business: OptumHealth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39,808 30,317 24,145 9,491 31 OptumInsight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,802 10,006 9,008 796 8 OptumRx . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87,498 74,288 69,536 13,210 18 Optum eliminations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,800) (1,661) (1,409) (139) 8 OptumHealth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,434 2,963 2,430 471 16 OptumInsight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,725 2,494 2,243 231 9 OptumRx . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,887 3,902 3,558 (15) Total UnitedHealthcare revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200,875 193,842 183,476 7,033 4% For the Years Ended December 31, Change For the Years Ended December 31, Change The following table summarizes the number of individuals served by our UnitedHealthcare businesses, by major market segment and funding arrangement: (in thousands, except percentages) 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs. 2019 Commercial: Risk-based . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,910 8,575 8,495 (665) (8)% Fee-based . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18,310 19,185 18,420 (875) (5) Medicare Advantage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,710 5,270 4,945 440 8 Medicaid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,620 5,900 6,450 720 12 Medicare Supplement (Standardized) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,460 4,500 4,545 (40) (1) Total UnitedHealthcare domestic medical . . . . . . . . . . . . 43,010 43,430 42,855 (420) (1) Global . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,425 5,720 6,220 (295) (5) Supplemental Data: Medicare Part D stand-alone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,045 4,405 4,710 (360) (8)% Fee-based and risk-based commercial business decreased primarily due to increased unemployment and related attrition. Medicare Advantage increased due to growth in people served through individual Medicare Advantage plans. The increase in people served through Medicaid was primarily driven by states easing redetermination requirements due to COVID-19 and growth in people served via Dual Special Needs Plans. The decrease in people served by UnitedHealthcare Global is a result of increased unemployment and underwriting discipline. UnitedHealthcare s revenue increased due to growth in the number of individuals served through Medicare Advantage and Medicaid, a greater mix of people with higher acuity needs and the return of the Health Insurance Industry Tax, partially offset by a decrease in the number of individuals served through the commercial and Global businesses and foreign currency impacts. In 2020, earnings from operations increased due to the deferral of care caused by COVID-19 on the health system and the factors impacting revenue, partially offset by the return of the Health Insurance Industry Tax, COVID-19 care and testing costs, customer assistance programs and broader economic effects. Total revenues increased as each segment reported revenue growth. Earnings from operations increased due to growth at OptumHealth and OptumInsight. The results by segment were as follows: OptumHealth Revenue and earnings at OptumHealth increased primarily due to organic growth and acquisitions in risk-based care delivery. Reduced care volumes in fee-for-service arrangements as a result of COVID-19 partially offset the increases in revenues and earnings. OptumHealth served approximately 98 million people as of December 31, 2020 compared to 96 million people as of December 31, 2019. OptumInsight Revenue and earnings from operations at OptumInsight increased primarily due to growth in technology and managed services, partially offset by decreased activity levels in volume-based services due to the impact of COVID-19 on payer and care provider clients. Total commercial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26,220 27,760 26,915 (1,540) (6) Total public and senior . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16,790 15,670 15,940 1,120 7 Total UnitedHealthcare medical . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48,435 49,150 49,075 (715) (1)% December 31, Change Revenue at OptumRx and the corresponding eliminations increased due to the inclusion of retail pharmacy co-payments. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements for further detail. Revenue at OptumRx also increased due to organic and acquisition growth in pharmacy care services, including specialty pharmacy, and new client wins, partially offset by an expected large client transition and lower script volumes driven by COVID-19 related care deferral and fewer people served due to economic-driven employment attrition. Earnings from operations remained relatively flat as COVID-19 impacts were partially offset by the factors impacting revenue and improved supply chain management. OptumRx fulfilled 1.3 billion adjusted scripts in both 2020 and 2019 with growth offset by the large client transition. LIQUIDITY, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Introduction We manage our liquidity and financial position in the context of our overall business strategy. We continually forecast and manage our cash, investments, working capital balances and capital structure to meet the short-term and long-term obligations of our businesses while seeking to maintain liquidity and financial flexibility. Cash flows generated from operating activities are principally from earnings before noncash expenses. Our regulated subsidiaries generate significant cash flows from operations and are subject to, among other things, minimal levels of statutory capital, as defined by their respective jurisdiction, and restrictions on the timing and amount of dividends paid to their parent companies. Our U.S. regulated subsidiaries paid their parent companies dividends of 8.3 billion and 5.6 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements for further detail concerning our regulated subsidiary dividends. Our nonregulated businesses also generate significant cash flows from operations available for general corporate use. Cash flows generated by these entities, combined with dividends from our regulated entities and financing through the issuance of long-term debt as well as issuance of commercial paper or the ability to draw under our committed credit facilities, further strengthen our operating and financial flexibility. We use these cash flows to expand our businesses through acquisitions, reinvest in our businesses through capital expenditures, repay debt and return capital to our shareholders through dividends and repurchases of our common stock. Summary of our Major Sources and Uses of Cash and Cash Equivalents (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs. 2019 Sources of cash: Cash provided by operating activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22,174 18,463 15,713 3,711 Issuances of long-term debt and short-term borrowings, net of repayments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,586 3,994 4,134 (1,408) Proceeds from common share issuances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,440 1,037 838 403 Customer funds administered . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,677 13 1,664 Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 219 (219) Total sources of cash . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27,877 23,726 20,685 Uses of cash: Cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash assumed . . . . . . . . (7,139) (8,343) (5,997) 1,204 Cash dividends paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (4,584) (3,932) (3,320) (652) Common share repurchases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (4,250) (5,500) (4,500) 1,250 Purchases of property, equipment and capitalized software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (2,051) (2,071) (2,063) 20 Purchases of investments, net of sales and maturities . . . . (2,836) (2,504) (4,099) (332) Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (965) (1,237) (1,743) 272 Total uses of cash . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (21,825) (23,587) (21,722) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (116) (20) (78) (96) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . 5,936 119 (1,115) 5,817 2020 Cash Flows Compared to 2019 Cash Flows Increased cash flows provided by operating activities were primarily driven by higher net earnings as well as changes in working capital accounts. Other significant changes in sources or uses of cash year-over-year included an increase in customer funds administered and net purchases of investments, and decreases in net issuances of long-term debt and short-term borrowings, cash paid for acquisitions and share repurchases. Financial Condition As of December 31, 2020, our cash, cash equivalent, available-for-sale debt securities and equity securities balances of 59.0 billion included 16.9 billion of cash and cash equivalents (of which 1.3 billion was available for general corporate use), 39.8 billion of debt securities and 2.3 billion of equity securities. Given the significant portion of our portfolio held in cash equivalents, we do not anticipate fluctuations in the aggregate fair value of our financial assets to have a material impact on our liquidity or capital position. Other sources of liquidity, primarily from operating cash flows and our commercial paper program, which is fully supported by our bank credit facilities, reduce the need to sell investments during adverse market conditions. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements for further detail concerning our fair value measurements. Our available-for-sale debt portfolio had a weighted-average duration of 3.7 years and a weighted-average credit rating of Double A as of December 31, 2020. When multiple credit ratings are available for an individual security, the average of the available ratings is used to determine the weighted-average credit rating. For the Years Ended December 31, Change Other Liabilities. These include other long-term liabilities reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2020, including obligations associated with certain employee benefit programs, unrecognized tax benefits and various long-term liabilities, which have some inherent uncertainty in the timing of these payments. Redeemable noncontrolling interests. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements for further detail. We do not have any material required redemptions in the next twelve months. We expect the cash required to meet our long-term obligations to be primarily generated through future cash flows from operations. However, we also have the ability to generate cash to satisfy both our current and long- term requirements through the issuance of commercial paper, issuance of long-term debt, or drawing under our committed credit facilities or the ability to sell investments. We believe our capital resources are sufficient to meet future, short-term and long-term, liquidity needs. Short-Term Borrowings. Our revolving bank credit facilities provide liquidity support for our commercial paper borrowing program, which facilitates the private placement of senior unsecured debt through independent broker- dealers, and are available for general corporate purposes. For more information on our commercial paper and bank credit facilities, see Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements. Our revolving bank credit facilities contain various covenants, including covenants requiring us to maintain a defined debt to debt-plus-shareholders equity ratio of not more than 60%, subject to increase in certain circumstances set forth in the applicable credit agreement. As of December 31, 2020, our debt to debt-plus- shareholders equity ratio, as defined and calculated under the credit facilities, was 38%. Long-Term Debt. Periodically, we access capital markets to issue long-term debt for general corporate purposes, such as, to meet our working capital requirements, to refinance debt, to finance acquisitions or for share repurchases. For more information on our debt, see Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 Financial Statements. Cash Requirements. The Company s cash requirements within the next twelve months include medical costs payable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, commercial paper and current maturities of long-term debt, other current liabilities, and purchase commitments and other obligations. We expect the cash required to meet these obligations to be primarily generated through cash flows from current operations cash available for general corporate use and the realization of current assets, such as accounts receivable. Our long-term cash requirements under our various contractual obligations and commitments include: Debt Obligations. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements for further detail of our commercial paper and long-term debt and the timing of expected future payments. Interest coupon payments are typically paid semi-annually. Purchase and other obligations. These include 5.3 billion, 2.0 billion of which is expected to be paid within the next twelve months, of fixed or minimum commitments under existing purchase obligations for goods and services, including agreements cancelable with the payment of an early termination penalty, and remaining capital commitments for venture capital funds and other funding commitments. These amounts exclude agreements cancelable without penalty and liabilities to the extent recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2020. Capital Resources and Uses of Liquidity Operating leases. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements for further detail of our obligations and the timing of expected future payments. Senior unsecured debt . . . . . . . . . . . . A3 Stable A Stable A Stable A- Positive Commercial paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . P-2 n a A-1 n a F1 n a AMB-1 n a Credit Ratings. Our credit ratings as of December 31, 2020 were as follows: The availability of financing in the form of debt or equity is influenced by many factors, including our profitability, operating cash flows, debt levels, credit ratings, debt covenants and other contractual restrictions, regulatory requirements and economic and market conditions. A significant downgrade in our credit ratings or adverse conditions in the capital markets may increase the cost of borrowing for us or limit our access to capital. Share Repurchase Program. As of December 31, 2020, we had Board authorization to purchase up to 58 million shares of our common stock. For more information on our share repurchase program, see Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements. Dividends. In June 2020, the Company s Board of Directors increased the Company s quarterly cash dividend to shareholders to an annual rate of 5.00 compared to 4.32 per share, which the Company had paid since June 2019. For more information on our dividend, see Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements. Pending Acquisitions. In the fourth quarter of 2020, we entered into agreements to acquire multiple companies in the health care sector, which are expected to close in the first half of 2021, subject to regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions. Additionally, in January 2021, we entered into agreements to purchase multiple companies in the health care sector, most notably, Change Healthcare (NASDAQ: CHNG). This acquisition is expected to close in the second half of 2021, subject to Change Healthcare shareholders approval, regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. The total anticipated capital required for these acquisitions, excluding the payoff of acquired indebtedness, is approximately 13 billion. We do not have other significant contractual obligations or commitments requiring cash resources. However, we continually evaluate opportunities to expand our operations, which include internal development of new products, programs and technology applications and may include acquisitions. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 Financial Statements for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements which affect us. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Critical accounting estimates are those estimates requiring management to make challenging, subjective or complex judgments, often because they must estimate the effects of matters inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Critical accounting estimates involve judgments and uncertainties which are sufficiently sensitive and may result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. Medical Costs Payable Medical costs and medical costs payable include estimates of our obligations for medical care services rendered on behalf of insured consumers, but for which claims have either not yet been received or processed. Depending on the health care professional and type of service, the typical billing lag for services can be up to 90 days from the date of service. Approximately 90% of claims related to medical care services are known and settled within 90 days from the date of service and substantially all within twelve months. As of December 31, 2020, our days outstanding in medical payables was 48 days, calculated as total medical payables divided by total medical costs times the number of days in the period. Ratings Outlook Ratings Outlook Ratings Outlook Ratings Outlook Moody s S&P Global Fitch A.M. Best (in millions) (0.75)% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600 (0.50) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 399 (0.25) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 199 0.25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (198) 0.50 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (395) 0.75 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (591) Medical Cost Per Member Per Month Trend Factors. Medical cost PMPM trend factors are significant factors we use in developing our medical costs payable estimates for the most recent two months. Medical cost trend factors are developed through a comprehensive analysis of claims incurred in prior months, provider contracting and expected unit costs, benefit design and a review of a broad set of health care utilization indicators, which included consideration of COVID-19 in 2020. These factors include but are not limited to pharmacy utilization trends, inpatient hospital authorization data and influenza incidence data from the National Centers for Disease Control. We also consider macroeconomic variables such as GDP growth, employment and disposable income. A large number of factors can cause the medical cost trend to vary from our estimates, including: our ability and practices to manage medical and pharmaceutical costs, changes in level and mix of services utilized, mix of benefits offered, including the impact of co-pays and deductibles, changes in medical practices, catastrophes, epidemics and pandemics, such as COVID-19. In each reporting period, our operating results include the effects of more completely developed medical costs payable estimates associated with previously reported periods. If the revised estimate of prior period medical costs is less than the previous estimate, we will decrease reported medical costs in the current period (favorable development). If the revised estimate of prior period medical costs is more than the previous estimate, we will increase reported medical costs in the current period (unfavorable development). Medical costs in 2020, 2019 and 2018 included favorable medical cost development related to prior years of 880 million, 580 million and 320 million, respectively. In developing our medical costs payable estimates, we apply different estimation methods depending on the month for which incurred claims are being estimated. For example, for the most recent two months, we estimate claim costs incurred by applying observed medical cost trend factors to the average per member per month (PMPM) medical costs incurred in prior months for which more complete claim data is available, supplemented by a review of near-term completion factors. Completion Factors. A completion factor is an actuarial estimate, based upon historical experience and analysis of current trends, of the percentage of incurred claims during a given period adjudicated by us at the date of estimation. Completion factors are the most significant factors we use in developing our medical costs payable estimates for periods prior to the most recent two months. Completion factors include judgments in relation to claim submissions such as the time from date of service to claim receipt, claim levels and processing cycles, as well as other factors. Our judgments also consider the impacts of COVID-19 on these factors. If actual claims submission rates from providers (which can be influenced by a number of factors, including provider mix and electronic versus manual submissions) or our claim processing patterns are different than estimated, our reserve estimates may be significantly impacted. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of these factors and the estimated potential impact on our medical costs payable estimates for those periods as of December 31, 2020: Completion Factors (Decrease) Increase in Factors Increase (Decrease) In Medical Costs Payable The following table illustrates the sensitivity of these factors and the estimated potential impact on our medical costs payable estimates for the most recent two months as of December 31, 2020: Medical Cost PMPM Quarterly Trend Increase (Decrease) in Factors (in millions) 3% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 529 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264 (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (264) (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (529) (3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (793) The completion factors and medical costs PMPM trend factors analyses above include outcomes considered reasonably likely based on our historical experience estimating liabilities for incurred but not reported benefit claims. Management believes the amount of medical costs payable is reasonable and adequate to cover our liability for unpaid claims as of December 31, 2020 however, actual claim payments may differ from established estimates as discussed above. Assuming a hypothetical 1% difference between our December 31, 2020 estimates of medical costs payable and actual medical costs payable, excluding AARP Medicare Supplement Insurance and any potential offsetting impact from premium rebates, 2020 net earnings would have increased or decreased by approximately 157 million. For more detail related to our medical cost estimates, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change indicating the carrying value may not be recoverable. When testing goodwill for impairment, we may first assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. During a qualitative analysis, we consider the impact of changes, if any, to the following factors: macroeconomic, industry and market factors, cost factors, changes in overall financial performance, and any other relevant events and uncertainties impacting a reporting unit. If our qualitative assessment indicates a goodwill impairment is more likely than not, we perform additional quantitative analyses. We may also elect to skip the qualitative testing and proceed directly to the quantitative testing. For reporting units where a quantitative analysis is performed, we perform a test measuring the fair values of the reporting units and comparing them to their aggregate carrying values, including goodwill. If the fair value is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, an impairment is recognized for the difference, up to the carrying amount of goodwill. We estimate the fair values of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow method or a weighted combination of discounted cash flows and a market-based method. The discounted cash flow method includes assumptions about a wide variety of internal and external factors. Significant assumptions used in the discounted cash flow method include financial projections of free cash flow, including revenue trends, medical costs trends, operating productivity, income taxes and capital levels long-term growth rates for determining terminal value beyond the discretely forecasted periods and discount rates. Financial projections and long-term growth rates used for our reporting units are consistent with, and use inputs from, our internal long-term business plan and strategies. Discount rates are determined for each reporting unit and include consideration of the implied risk inherent in their forecasts. Our most significant estimate in the discount rate determinations involves our adjustments to the peer company weighted average costs of capital reflecting reporting unit-specific factors. Increase (Decrease) In Medical Costs Payable We have not made any adjustments to decrease a discount rate below the calculated peer company weighted average cost of capital for any reporting unit. Company-specific adjustments to discount rates are subjective and thus are difficult to measure with certainty. The passage of time and the availability of additional information regarding areas of uncertainty with respect to the reporting units operations could cause these assumptions to change in the future. Additionally, as part of our quantitative impairment testing, we perform various sensitivity analyses on certain key assumptions, such as discount rates, cash flow projections and peer company multiples to analyze the potential for a material impact. The market-based method requires determination of appropriate peer group whose securities are traded on an active market. The peer group is used to derive market multiples to estimate fair value. As of October 1, 2020, we completed our annual impairment tests for goodwill with all of our reporting units having fair values substantially in excess of their carrying values. LEGAL MATTERS A description of our legal proceedings is presented in Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements. CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK Investments in financial instruments such as marketable securities and accounts receivable may subject us to concentrations of credit risk. Our investments in marketable securities are managed under an investment policy authorized by our Board of Directors. This policy limits the amounts which may be invested in any one issuer and generally limits our investments to U.S. government and agency securities, state and municipal securities and corporate debt obligations of investment grade. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable are limited due to the large number of employer groups and other customers constituting our client base. As of December 31, 2020, there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Our primary market risks are exposures to changes in interest rates impacting our investment income and interest expense and the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt, as well as foreign currency exchange rate risk of the U.S. dollar primarily to the Brazilian real and Chilean peso. As of December 31, 2020, we had 20 billion of financial assets on which the interest rates received vary with market interest rates, which may significantly impact our investment income. Also as of December 31, 2020, 8 billion of our financial liabilities, which include commercial paper, debt and deposit liabilities, were at interest rates which vary with market rates, either directly or through the use of related interest rate swap contracts. The fair value of our fixed-rate investments and debt also varies with market interest rates. As of December 31, 2020, 37 billion of our investments were fixed-rate debt securities and 45 billion of our debt was non-swapped fixed-rate term debt. An increase in market interest rates decreases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. Conversely, a decrease in market interest rates increases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. We manage exposure to market interest rates by diversifying investments across different fixed-income market sectors and debt across maturities, as well as by matching a portion of our floating-rate assets and liabilities, either directly or through the use of interest rate swap contracts. Unrealized gains and losses on investments in available-for-sale debt securities are reported in comprehensive income. The following tables summarize the impact of hypothetical changes in market interest rates across the entire yield curve by 1% point or 2% points as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 on our investment income and interest expense per annum and the fair value of our investments and debt (in millions, except percentages): Increase (Decrease) in Market Interest Rate 2% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 401 163 (3,020) (8,700) 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201 82 (1,499) (4,744) (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (75) (12) 820 5,266 (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (75) (12) 886 8,101 Increase (Decrease) in Market Interest Rate 2% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 282 185 (2,668) (6,813) 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 141 93 (1,331) (3,704) (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (141) (93) 1,246 4,433 (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (282) (185) 2,071 9,613 We have an exposure to changes in the value of foreign currencies, primarily the Brazilian real and the Chilean peso, to the U.S. dollar in translation of UnitedHealthcare Global s operating results at the average exchange rate over the accounting period, and UnitedHealthcare Global s assets and liabilities at the exchange rate at the end of the accounting period. The gains or losses resulting from translating foreign assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars are included in equity and comprehensive income. An appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Brazilian real or Chilean peso reduces the carrying value of the net assets denominated in those currencies. For example, as of December 31, 2020, a hypothetical 10% and 25% increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against those currencies would have caused a reduction in net assets of approximately 535 million and 1.2 billion, respectively. We manage exposure to foreign currency earnings risk primarily by conducting our international business operations in their functional currencies. As of December 31, 2020, we had 2.3 billion of investments in equity securities, primarily consisting of investments in employee savings plan related investments and non-U.S. dollar fixed-income funds. Valuations in non-U.S. dollar funds are subject to foreign exchange rates. Note: Given the low absolute level of short-term market rates on our floating-rate assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2020, the assumed hypothetical change in interest rates does not reflect the full 100 and 200 basis point reduction in interest income or interest expense, as the rates are assumed not to fall below zero. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, some of our investments had interest rates below 2% so the assumed hypothetical change in the fair value of investments does not reflect the full 200 basis point reduction. Investment Income Per Annum Investment Income Per Annum Interest Expense Per Annum Interest Expense Per Annum December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Fair Value of Financial Assets Fair Value of Financial Assets Fair Value of Financial Liabilities Fair Value of Financial Liabilities ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 Consolidated Balance Sheets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52 Consolidated Statements of Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 1. Description of Business . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 2. Basis of Presentation, Use of Estimates and Significant Accounting Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 3. Investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 4. Fair Value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 5. Property, Equipment and Capitalized Software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69 6. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69 7. Medical Costs Payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71 8. Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72 9. Income Taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73 10. Shareholders Equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75 11. Share-Based Compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76 12. Commitments and Contingencies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78 13. Business Combinations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80 14. Segment Financial Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Subsidiaries: Opinion on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Subsidiaries (the Company ) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the financial statements ). In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated March 1, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting. Basis for Opinion These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matters The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate. Incurred but not Reported (IBNR) Claim Liability Refer to Notes 2 and 7 to the financial statements. Critical Audit Matter Description Medical costs payable includes estimates of the Company s obligations for medical care services rendered on behalf of insured consumers, for which claims have either not yet been received or processed. These estimates are referred to as incurred but not reported (IBNR) claim liabilities. The Company develops IBNR estimates using an actuarial model that requires management to exercise certain judgments in developing its estimates. Judgments made by management include medical cost per member per month trend factors and completion factors, which include assumptions over the time from date of service to claim receipt, the impact of claim levels, and processing cycles. We identified the IBNR claim liability as a critical audit matter because of the significant assumptions made by management in estimating the liability. This required complex auditor judgment, and an increased extent of effort, including the involvement of actuarial specialists in performing procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of management s methods, assumptions and judgments in developing the liability. How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit Our audit procedures included the following, among others: We tested the effectiveness of controls over management s estimate of the IBNR claim liability balance, including controls over the judgments in both the completion factors and the medical cost per member per month trend factors. We tested the underlying claims and membership data and other information that served as the basis for the actuarial analysis, to test that the inputs to the actuarial estimate were complete and accurate. With the assistance of actuarial specialists, we evaluated the reasonableness of the actuarial methods and assumptions used by management to estimate the IBNR claim liability by: Goodwill Refer to Notes 2 and 6 to the financial statements. Critical Audit Matter Description At December 31, 2020, the Company s goodwill balance was 71 billion. As discussed in Note 2 of the financial statements, for reporting units where a quantitative analysis is performed, the Company performs an annual impairment test measuring the fair values of the reporting units and comparing them to their aggregate carrying values including goodwill. The estimates of the reporting unit fair values are calculated using a discounted cash flow method or a weighted combination of discounted cash flows and a market-based method. The discounted cash flow method includes assumptions about revenue trends, medical cost trends, and operating costs as well as discount rates. The market-based method requires determination of an appropriate group of peer companies whose securities are traded on an active market. The fair values of the reporting units exceeded the carrying values as of the impairment testing date, therefore no impairment was recognized. We identified a critical audit matter related to the quantitative analysis performed for such reporting units because of the significant assumptions made by management to estimate the fair value of the reporting unit. This required increased auditor judgment and extent of effort, including involvement of fair value specialists to evaluate the reasonableness of management s estimates and assumptions related to peer company selection and financial projections, which can be impacted by regulatory and macro-economic factors. Performing an overlay of the historical claims data used in management s current year model to the data used in prior periods to validate that there were no material changes to the claims data tested in prior periods. Developing an independent estimate of the IBNR claim liability and comparing our estimate to management s estimate. Performing a retrospective review comparing management s prior year estimate of IBNR to claims processed in 2020 with dates of service in 2019 or prior. How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit Our audit procedures related to the valuation, business, and market assumptions including the discount rate, financial forecasts, and peer group used by management to estimate the fair value of reporting units where a quantitative analysis was performed, included the following, among others: We tested the effectiveness of controls over management s annual goodwill impairment assessment, including those over the determination of the fair value such as controls related to management s financial forecasts, as well as controls over the selection of discount rates, company specific risks, peer companies, and market multiples. We evaluated management s ability to forecast and meet future revenue, medical cost trend, and operating costs by comparing: We evaluated the impact of changes in management s forecasts from the October 1, 2020 annual measurement date to December 31, 2020. We evaluated management s selection of peer companies and market multiples. With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the reasonableness of the (1) valuation methodologies, including testing the mathematical accuracy of the calculation, (2) the weighting of such valuation methodologies, and (3) discount rate and company specific risks by: S DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP Minneapolis, Minnesota March 1, 2021 We have served as the Company s auditor since 2002. Actual results to historical forecasts. Forecasted information to: internal communications to management and the Board of Directors, industry and economic trends, and analyst reports of revenue and earnings expectations for the Company and its peers. Testing the source information underlying the determination of the discount rate and the mathematical accuracy of the calculation. Developing a range of independent discount rate estimates and comparing to those selected by management. Total current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53,718 42,634 Long-term investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41,242 37,209 Property, equipment and capitalized software, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization of 5,230 and 4,995 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,626 8,704 Goodwill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71,337 65,659 Other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization of 5,455 and 5,072 . . . . 10,856 10,349 Other assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11,510 9,334 Total current liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72,420 61,782 Long-term debt, less current maturities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38,648 36,808 Deferred income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,367 2,993 Other liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12,315 10,144 Commitments and contingencies (Note 12) Redeemable noncontrolling interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,211 1,726 Equity: Preferred stock, 0.001 par value 10 shares authorized no shares issued or outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Common stock, 0.01 par value 3,000 shares authorized 946 and 948 issued and outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 9 Additional paid-in capital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Retained earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69,295 61,178 Accumulated other comprehensive loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (3,814) (3,578) Nonredeemable noncontrolling interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,837 2,820 (in millions, except per share data) Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16,921 10,985 Short-term investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,860 3,260 Accounts receivable, net of allowances of 990 and 519 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12,870 11,822 Other current receivables, net of allowances of 1,047 and 859 . . . . . . . . . . . 12,534 9,640 Assets under management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,076 3,076 Prepaid expenses and other current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,457 3,851 Total assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197,289 173,889 Liabilities, redeemable noncontrolling interests and equity Current liabilities: Medical costs payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21,872 21,690 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22,495 19,005 Short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,819 3,870 Unearned revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,842 2,622 Other current liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20,392 14,595 Total liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126,750 111,727 Total equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68,328 60,436 Total liabilities, redeemable noncontrolling interests and equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197,289 173,889 See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements UnitedHealth Group Consolidated Balance Sheets December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 (in millions, except per share data) 2020 2019 2018 Revenues: Premiums . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201,478 189,699 178,087 Products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34,145 31,597 29,601 Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20,016 18,973 17,183 Investment and other income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,502 1,886 1,376 Total revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257,141 242,155 226,247 Operating costs: Medical costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 159,396 156,440 145,403 Operating costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41,704 35,193 34,074 Cost of products sold . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30,745 28,117 26,998 Depreciation and amortization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,891 2,720 2,428 Total operating costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 234,736 222,470 208,903 Earnings from operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22,405 19,685 17,344 Interest expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,663) (1,704) (1,400) Earnings before income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20,742 17,981 15,944 Provision for income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (4,973) (3,742) (3,562) Net earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,769 14,239 12,382 Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (366) (400) (396) Net earnings attributable to UnitedHealth Group common shareholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,403 13,839 11,986 Earnings per share attributable to UnitedHealth Group common shareholders: Basic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.23 14.55 12.45 Basic weighted-average number of common shares outstanding . . . . . . . . 949 951 963 Dilutive effect of common share equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 15 20 Diluted weighted-average number of common shares outstanding . . . . . . 961 966 983 Anti-dilutive shares excluded from the calculation of dilutive effect of common share equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 10 6 Diluted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.03 14.33 12.19 See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements UnitedHealth Group Consolidated Statements of Operations For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 Net earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,769 14,239 12,382 Comprehensive income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,533 14,821 10,865 Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (366) (400) (396) Comprehensive income attributable to UnitedHealth Group common shareholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,167 14,421 10,469 Other comprehensive (loss) income: Gross unrealized gains (losses) on investment securities during the period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,058 1,212 (294) Income tax effect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (253) (279) 67 Other comprehensive (loss) income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (236) 582 (1,517) Gross reclassification adjustment for net realized gains included in net earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (75) (104) (62) Income tax effect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 24 14 Total foreign currency translation losses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (983) (271) (1,242) Total unrealized gains (losses), net of tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805 933 (227) Total reclassification adjustment, net of tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (58) (80) (48) UnitedHealth Group Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the Years Ended December 31, Balance at December 31, 2019 . . . . . . 948 9 7 61,178 589 (4,167) 2,820 60,436 Adjustment to adopt ASU 2016-13 . . (28) (28) Net earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,403 254 15,657 Other comprehensive income (loss) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 747 (983) (236) Issuances of common stock, and related tax effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 1 1,119 1,120 Share-based compensation . . . . . . . . . 647 647 Common share repurchases . . . . . . . . (14) (1,576) (2,674) (4,250) Cash dividends paid on common shares ( 4.83 per share) . . . . . . . . . (4,584) (4,584) Redeemable noncontrolling interests fair value and other adjustments . . . (197) (197) Acquisition and other adjustments of nonredeemable noncontrolling interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 40 Distributions to nonredeemable noncontrolling interests . . . . . . . . . . (277) (277) (in millions) Balance at January 1, 2018 . . . . . . . . . 969 10 1,703 48,730 (13) (2,654) 2,057 49,833 Adjustment to adopt ASU 2016-01 . . (24) 24 Net earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11,986 273 12,259 Other comprehensive loss . . . . . . . . . . (275) (1,242) (1,517) Issuances of common stock, and related tax effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 814 814 Share-based compensation . . . . . . . . . 620 620 Common share repurchases . . . . . . . . (19) (2,974) (1,526) (4,500) Cash dividends paid on common shares ( 3.45 per share) . . . . . . . . . (3,320) (3,320) Redeemable noncontrolling interest fair value and other adjustments . . . (163) (163) Acquisition and other adjustments of nonredeemable noncontrolling interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 521 521 Distributions to nonredeemable noncontrolling interest . . . . . . . . . . (228) (228) Balance at December 31, 2018 . . . . . . 960 10 55,846 (264) (3,896) 2,623 54,319 Adjustment to adopt ASU 2016-02 . . (13) (5) (18) Net earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13,839 285 14,124 Other comprehensive income (loss) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853 (271) 582 Issuances of common stock, and related tax effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 696 696 Share-based compensation . . . . . . . . . 673 673 Common share repurchases . . . . . . . . (22) (1) (937) (4,562) (5,500) Cash dividends paid on common shares ( 4.14 per share) . . . . . . . . . (3,932) (3,932) Redeemable noncontrolling interest fair value and other adjustments . . . (316) (316) Acquisition and other adjustments of nonredeemable noncontrolling interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (109) 196 87 Distributions to nonredeemable noncontrolling interest . . . . . . . . . . (279) (279) Balance at December 31, 2020 . . . . . . 946 10 69,295 1,336 (5,150) 2,837 68,328 See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements UnitedHealth Group Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity Total Equity Shares Amount Common Stock Additional Paid-In Capital Retained Earnings Net Unrealized (Losses) Gains on Investments Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income Foreign Currency Translation Losses Nonredeemable Noncontrolling Interests Operating activities Net earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,769 14,239 12,382 Noncash items: Depreciation and amortization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,891 2,720 2,428 Deferred income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (8) 230 42 Share-based compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679 697 638 Other, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (52) (106) (71) Net change in other operating items, net of effects from acquisitions and changes in AARP balances: Accounts receivable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (688) 162 (1,351) Other assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (2,195) (1,563) (750) Medical costs payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 152 1,221 1,831 Accounts payable and other liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,348 733 526 Unearned revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 278 130 38 (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 Cash flows from operating activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22,174 18,463 15,713 Investing activities Purchases of investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (16,577) (18,131) (14,010) Sales of investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,489 8,536 3,641 Maturities of investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,252 7,091 6,270 Cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash assumed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (7,139) (8,343) (5,997) Purchases of property, equipment and capitalized software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (2,051) (2,071) (2,063) Other, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (506) 219 (226) Cash flows used for investing activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (12,532) (12,699) (12,385) Financing activities Common share repurchases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (4,250) (5,500) (4,500) Cash dividends paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (4,584) (3,932) (3,320) Proceeds from common stock issuances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,440 1,037 838 Repayments of long-term debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (3,150) (1,750) (2,600) Proceeds from (repayments of) short-term borrowings, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872 300 (201) Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,864 5,444 6,935 Customer funds administered . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,677 13 (131) Other, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (459) (1,237) (1,386) Cash flows used for financing activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (3,590) (5,625) (4,365) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . (116) (20) (78) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,936 119 (1,115) Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,985 10,866 11,981 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16,921 10,985 10,866 Supplemental cash flow disclosures Cash paid for interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,704 1,627 1,410 Cash paid for income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,935 3,542 3,257 See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements UnitedHealth Group Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the Years Ended December 31, 1. Description of Business UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (individually and together with its subsidiaries, UnitedHealth Group and the Company ) is a diversified health care company with a mission to help people live healthier lives and help make the health system work better for everyone. Our two complementary businesses Optum and UnitedHealthcare are driven by this unified mission and vision to improve health care access, affordability, experiences and outcomes for the individuals and organizations we are privileged to serve. 2. Basis of Presentation, Use of Estimates and Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation The Company has prepared the Consolidated Financial Statements according to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and has included the accounts of UnitedHealth Group and its subsidiaries. Use of Estimates These Consolidated Financial Statements include certain amounts based on the Company s best estimates and judgments. The Company s most significant estimates relate to estimates and judgments for medical costs payable and goodwill. Certain of these estimates require the application of complex assumptions and judgments, often because they involve matters inherently uncertain and will likely change in subsequent periods. The impact of any change in estimates is included in earnings in the period in which the estimate is adjusted. Premium revenues are primarily derived from risk-based health insurance arrangements in which the premium is typically at a fixed rate per individual served for a one-year period, and the Company assumes the economic risk of funding its customers health care and related administrative costs. Premium revenues are recognized in the period in which eligible individuals are entitled to receive health care benefits. Health care premium payments received from the Company s customers in advance of the service period are recorded as unearned revenues. Fully insured commercial products of U.S. health plans, Medicare Advantage and Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit (Medicare Part D) plans with medical loss ratios (MLRs) as calculated under the definitions in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) and related federal and state regulations and implementing regulation, falling below certain targets are required to rebate ratable portions of their premiums annually. Commercial premiums within the Company s individual and small group markets are also subject to the ACA risk adjustment program. Medicare Advantage premium revenue includes the impact of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) quality bonuses based on plans Star rating. Certain of the Company s Medicaid business is also subject to state minimum MLR rebates. Premium revenues are recognized based on the estimated premiums earned, net of projected rebates, because the Company is able to reasonably estimate the ultimate premiums of these contracts. The Company also records premium revenues for certain risk-based arrangements at its OptumHealth care delivery businesses. The Company s Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D premium revenues are subject to periodic adjustment under CMS risk adjustment payment methodology. CMS deploys a risk adjustment model which apportions premiums paid to all health plans according to health severity and certain demographic factors. The CMS risk adjustment model provides higher per member payments for enrollees diagnosed with certain conditions and lower payments for enrollees who are healthier. Under this risk adjustment methodology, CMS calculates the risk UnitedHealth Group Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements adjusted premium payment using diagnosis and encounter data from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient and physician treatment settings. The Company and health care providers collect, capture and submit the necessary and available data to CMS within prescribed deadlines. The Company estimates risk adjustment premium revenues based upon the data submitted and expected to be submitted to CMS. Risk adjustment data for the Company s plans are subject to review by the government, including audit by regulators. See Note 12 for additional information regarding these audits. Products and Services For the Company s OptumRx pharmacy care services business, the majority of revenues are derived from products sold through a contracted network of retail pharmacies or home delivery, specialty and community health pharmacies. Product revenues include the cost of pharmaceuticals (net of rebates), a negotiated dispensing fee and customer co-payments for drugs dispensed through the Company s home delivery, specialty and community pharmacies. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recognized revenue and cost of products sold for retail pharmacy co-payments related to its OptumRx business. Revenue recognized in prior periods related to retail pharmacy transactions excludes the member s applicable co-payment. There was no impact on earnings from operations, net earnings, earnings per share or total equity. Pharmacy products are billed to customers based on the number of transactions occurring during the billing period. Product revenues are recognized when the prescriptions are dispensed. The Company has entered into contracts in which it is primarily obligated to pay its network pharmacy providers for benefits provided to their customers regardless of whether the Company is paid. The Company is also involved in establishing the prices charged by retail pharmacies, determining which drugs will be included in formulary listings and selecting which retail pharmacies will be included in the network offered to plan sponsors members and accordingly, are reported on a gross basis. Services revenue consists of fees derived from services performed for customers who self-insure the health care costs of their employees and employees dependents. Under service fee contracts, the Company receives monthly, a fixed fee per employee, which is recognized as revenue as the Company performs, or makes available, the applicable services to the customer. The customers retain the risk of financing health care costs for their employees and employees dependents, and the Company administers the payment of customer funds to physicians and other health care professionals from customer-funded bank accounts. As the Company has neither the obligation for funding the health care costs, nor the primary responsibility for providing the medical care, the Company does not recognize premium revenue and medical costs for these contracts in its Consolidated Financial Statements. For these fee-based customer arrangements, the Company provides coordination and facilitation of medical services transaction processing customer, consumer and care professional services and access to contracted networks of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals. These services are performed throughout the contract period. Revenues are also comprised of a number of services and products sold through Optum. OptumHealth s service revenues include net patient service revenues recorded based upon established billing rates, less allowances for contractual adjustments, and are recognized as services are provided. For its financial services offerings, OptumHealth charges fees and earns investment income on managed funds. OptumInsight provides software and information products, advisory consulting arrangements and managed services outsourcing contracts, which may be delivered over several years. OptumInsight revenues are generally recognized over time and measured each period based on the progress to date as services are performed or made available to customers. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, accounts receivables related to products and services were 5.3 billion and 4.3 billion, respectively. In 2020 and 2019, the Company had no material bad-debt expense and there were no material contract assets, contract liabilities or deferred contract costs recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2020 or 2019. For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, revenue recognized from performance obligations related to prior periods (for example, due to changes in transaction price) was not material. Revenue expected to be recognized in any future year related to remaining performance obligations, excluding revenue pertaining to contracts having an original expected duration of one year or less, contracts where revenue is recognized as invoiced and contracts with variable consideration related to undelivered performance obligations, is not material. See Note 14 for disaggregation of revenue by segment and type. Medical Costs and Medical Costs Payable The Company s estimate of medical costs payable represents management s best estimate of its liability for unpaid medical costs as of December 31, 2020. Each period, the Company re-examines previously established medical costs payable estimates based on actual claim submissions and other changes in facts and circumstances. As more complete claim information becomes available, the Company adjusts the amount of the estimates and includes the changes in estimates in medical costs in the period in which the change is identified. Approximately 90% of claims related to medical care services are known and settled within 90 days from the date of service and substantially all within twelve months. Medical costs and medical costs payable include estimates of the Company s obligations for medical care services rendered on behalf of insured consumers, but for which claims have either not yet been received, processed, or paid. The Company develops estimates for medical care services incurred but not reported (IBNR), which includes estimates for claims which have not been received or fully processed, using an actuarial process consistently applied, centrally controlled and automated. The actuarial models consider factors such as time from date of service to claim processing, seasonal variances in medical care consumption, health care professional contract rate changes, medical care utilization and other medical cost trends, membership volume and demographics, the introduction of new technologies, benefit plan changes, and business mix changes related to products, customers and geography. Judgments related to these factors contemplated the impact of COVID-19 in 2020. In developing its medical costs payable estimates, the Company applies different estimation methods depending on which incurred claims are being estimated. For the most recent two months, the Company estimates claim costs incurred by applying observed medical cost trend factors to the average per member per month (PMPM) medical costs incurred in prior months for which more complete claim data are available, supplemented by a review of near-term completion factors (actuarial estimates, based upon historical experience and analysis of current trends, of the percentage of incurred claims during a given period adjudicated by the Company at the date of estimation). For months prior to the most recent two months, the Company applies the completion factors to actual claims adjudicated-to-date to estimate the expected amount of ultimate incurred claims for those months. Cost of Products Sold The Company s cost of products sold includes the cost of pharmaceuticals dispensed to unaffiliated customers either directly at its home delivery, specialty and community pharmacy locations, or indirectly through its nationwide network of participating pharmacies. Rebates attributable to non-affiliated clients are accrued as rebates receivable and a reduction of cost of products sold, with a corresponding payable for the amounts of the rebates to be remitted to those non-affiliated clients in accordance with their contracts and recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as a reduction of product revenue. Cost of products sold also includes the cost of personnel to support the Company s transaction processing services, system sales, maintenance and professional services. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments having an original maturity of three months or less. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their carrying value because of the short maturity of the instruments. Investments with maturities of less than one year are classified as short-term. Because of regulatory requirements, certain investments are included in long-term investments regardless of their maturity date. The Company classifies these investments as held-to-maturity and reports them at amortized cost. Substantially all other investments are classified as available-for-sale and reported at fair value based on quoted market prices, where available. Equity investments, with certain exceptions, are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net earnings. The Company excludes unrealized gains and losses on investments in available-for-sale debt securities from net earnings and reports them as comprehensive income and, net of income tax effects, as a separate component of equity. To calculate realized gains and losses on the sale of debt securities, the Company specifically identifies the cost of each investment sold. The Company evaluates an available-for-sale debt security for credit-related impairment by considering the present value of expected cash flows relative to a security s amortized cost, the extent to which fair value is less than amortized cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer and specific events or circumstances which may influence the operations of the issuer. Credit-related impairments are recorded as an allowance, with an offset to investment and other income. Non-credit related impairments are recorded through other comprehensive income. If the Company intends to sell an impaired security, or will likely be required to sell a security before recovery of the entire amortized cost, the entire impairment is included in net earnings. New information and the passage of time can change these judgments. The Company manages its investment portfolio to limit its exposure to any one issuer or market sector, and largely limits its investments to investment grade quality. Securities downgraded below policy minimums after purchase will be disposed of in accordance with the Company s investment policy. Assets Under Management The Company provides health insurance products and services to members of AARP under a Supplemental Health Insurance Program (the AARP Program) and to AARP members and non-members under separate Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D arrangements. The products and services under the AARP Program include supplemental Medicare benefits, hospital indemnity insurance, including insurance for individuals between 50 to 64 years of age, and other related products. Pursuant to the Company s agreement with AARP, program assets are managed separately from the Company s general investment portfolio and are used to pay costs associated with the AARP Program. These assets are invested at the Company s discretion, within investment guidelines approved by AARP. The Company does not guarantee any rates of return on these investments and, upon any transfer of the AARP Program contract to another entity, the Company would transfer cash equal in amount to the fair value of these investments at the date of transfer to the entity. Because the purpose of these assets is to fund the medical costs payable, the rate stabilization fund (RSF) liabilities and other related liabilities associated with this AARP contract, assets under management are classified as current assets, consistent with the classification of these liabilities. The effects of changes in other balance sheet amounts associated with the AARP Program also accrue to the overall benefit of the AARP policyholders through the RSF balance. Accordingly, the Company excludes the effect of such changes in its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Other Current Receivables Other current receivables include amounts due from pharmaceutical manufacturers for rebates and Medicare Part D drug discounts, accrued interest and other miscellaneous amounts due to the Company. The Company s pharmacy care services businesses contract with pharmaceutical manufacturers, some of which provide rebates based on use of the manufacturers products by its affiliated and non-affiliated clients. The Company accrues rebates as they are earned by its clients on a monthly basis based on the terms of the applicable contracts, historical data and current estimates. The pharmacy care services businesses bill these rebates to the manufacturers on a monthly or quarterly basis depending on the contractual terms and record rebates attributable to affiliated clients as a reduction to medical costs. The Company generally receives rebates two to five months after billing. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, total pharmaceutical manufacturer rebates receivable included in other receivables in the Consolidated Balance Sheets amounted to 6.3 billion and 4.7 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company s Medicare Part D receivables amounted to 2.9 billion and 2.3 billion, respectively. Property, Equipment and Capitalized Software Property, equipment and capitalized software are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization. Capitalized software consists of certain costs incurred in the development of internal-use software, including external direct costs of materials and services and applicable payroll costs of employees devoted to specific software development. The Company calculates depreciation and amortization using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The useful lives for property, equipment and capitalized software are: Furniture, fixtures and equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 to 10 years Buildings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 to 40 years Capitalized software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 to 5 years Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the remaining lease term or their estimated useful economic life. Operating Leases The Company leases facilities and equipment under long-term operating leases which are non-cancelable and expire on various dates. At the lease commencement date, lease right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term, which includes all fixed obligations arising from the lease contract. If an interest rate is not implicit in a lease, the Company utilizes its incremental borrowing rate for a period closely matching the lease term. The Company s ROU assets are included in other assets, and lease liabilities are included in other current liabilities and other liabilities in the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet. To determine whether goodwill is impaired, annually or more frequently if needed, the Company performs impairment tests. The Company may first assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. The Company may also elect to skip the qualitative testing and proceed directly to the quantitative testing. When performing quantitative testing, the Company first estimates the fair values of its reporting units using discounted cash flows or a weighted combination of discounted cash flows and a market-based method. To determine fair values, the Company must make assumptions about a wide variety of internal and external factors. Significant assumptions used in the impairment analysis include financial projections of free cash flow (including significant assumptions about operations, capital requirements and income taxes), long-term growth rates for determining terminal value, discount rates and the selection of comparable peer companies. If the fair value is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, an impairment is recognized for the difference, up to the carrying amount of goodwill. There was no impairment of goodwill during the year ended December 31, 2020. Intangible Assets The Company s intangible assets are subject to impairment tests when events or circumstances indicate an intangible asset (or asset group) may be impaired. The Company s indefinite-lived intangible assets are also tested for impairment annually. There was no impairment of intangible assets during the year ended December 31, 2020. Other Current Liabilities Other current liabilities include health savings account deposits ( 10.2 billion and 8.3 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively), the RSF associated with the AARP Program, accruals for premium rebates payable, the current portion of future policy benefits and customer balances. Policy Acquisition Costs The Company s short duration health insurance contracts typically have a one-year term and may be canceled by the customer with at least 30 days notice. Costs related to the acquisition and renewal of short duration customer contracts are primarily charged to expense as incurred. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Redeemable noncontrolling interests in the Company s subsidiaries whose redemption is outside the control of the Company are classified as temporary equity. The following table provides details of the Company s redeemable noncontrolling interests activity for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019: (in millions) 2020 2019 Redeemable noncontrolling interests, beginning of period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,726 1,908 Net earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112 115 Acquisitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 321 90 Redemptions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (618) Distributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (149) (69) Fair value and other adjustments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201 300 Redeemable noncontrolling interests, end of period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,211 1,726 Share-Based Compensation The Company recognizes compensation expense for share-based awards, including stock options and restricted stock and restricted stock units (collectively, restricted shares), on a straight-line basis over the related service period (generally the vesting period) of the award, or to an employee s eligible retirement date under the award agreement, if earlier. Restricted shares vest ratably, primarily over four years and compensation expense related to restricted shares is based on the share price on the date of grant. Stock options vest ratably primarily over four years and may be exercised up to 10 years from the date of grant. Compensation expense related to stock options is based on the fair value at the date of grant, which is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial option- pricing model. Under the Company s Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), eligible employees are allowed to purchase the Company s stock at a discounted price, which is 90% of the market price of the Company s common stock at the end of the six-month purchase period. Share-based compensation expense for all programs is recognized in operating costs in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Net Earnings Per Common Share The Company computes basic earnings per common share attributable to UnitedHealth Group common shareholders by dividing net earnings attributable to UnitedHealth Group common shareholders by the weighted- average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The Company determines diluted net earnings per common share attributable to UnitedHealth Group common shareholders using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for potentially dilutive shares associated with stock options, restricted shares and the ESPP (collectively, common stock equivalents), using the treasury stock method. The treasury stock method assumes a hypothetical issuance of shares to settle the share-based awards, with the assumed proceeds used to purchase common stock at the average market price for the period. Assumed proceeds include the amount the employee must pay upon exercise and the average unrecognized compensation cost. The difference between the number of shares assumed issued and number of shares assumed purchased represents the dilutive shares. The ACA included an annual, nondeductible insurance industry tax (Health Insurance Industry Tax) to be levied proportionally across the insurance industry for risk-based health insurance products. After a moratorium in 2019, the industry wide amount of the Health Insurance Industry Tax for 2020, which was primarily borne by the customer, was 15.5 billion, of which the Company s portion was approximately 3.0 billion. The Health Insurance Industry Tax was permanently repealed by Congress, effective January 1, 2021. Recently Adopted Accounting Standards In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standard Update (ASU) No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326) (ASU 2016-13). ASU 2016-13 requires the use of the current expected credit loss impairment model to develop an estimate of expected credit losses for certain financial assets. ASU 2016-13 also requires expected credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities to be recognized through an allowance for credit losses and revises certain disclosure requirements. The Company adopted ASU 2016-13 on January 1, 2020 using a cumulative effect upon adoption approach. The adoption of ASU 2016-13 was immaterial to the Company s consolidated balance sheet, results of operations, equity and cash flows. The Company has determined there have been no other recently adopted or issued accounting standards which had, or will have, a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 3. Investments A summary of debt securities by major security type is as follows: (in millions) December 31, 2020 Debt securities available-for-sale: U.S. government and agency obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,335 133 (3) 3,465 State and municipal obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,893 435 7,328 Corporate obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18,886 863 (12) 19,737 U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,849 245 (3) 7,091 Non-U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities . . . . . . . . . 2,116 95 (4) 2,207 Total debt securities available-for-sale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38,079 1,771 (22) 39,828 Debt securities held-to-maturity: U.S. government and agency obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420 6 426 State and municipal obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 2 33 Corporate obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 187 1 188 Total debt securities held-to-maturity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 638 9 647 Total debt securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38,717 1,780 (22) 40,475 December 31, 2019 Debt securities available-for-sale: U.S. government and agency obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,502 55 (4) 3,553 State and municipal obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,680 251 (5) 5,926 Corporate obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17,910 343 (11) 18,242 U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,425 109 (6) 6,528 Non-U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities . . . . . . . . . 1,811 37 (3) 1,845 Total debt securities available-for-sale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35,328 795 (29) 36,094 Debt securities held-to-maturity: U.S. government and agency obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . 402 2 404 State and municipal obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 2 34 Corporate obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 538 (1) 537 Total debt securities held-to-maturity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972 4 (1) 975 Total debt securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36,300 799 (30) 37,069 Nearly all of the Company s investments in mortgage-backed securities were rated Triple A as of December 31, 2020. The Company held 2.3 billion and 2.0 billion of equity securities as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. The Company s investments in equity securities primarily consist of employee savings plan related investments and shares of Brazilian real denominated fixed-income funds with readily determinable fair values. Additionally, the Company s investments included 1.3 billion and 1.4 billion of equity method investments in operating businesses in the health care sector, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The allowance for credit losses on held-to-maturity securities at December 31, 2020 was not material. Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Due in one year or less . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,951 2,966 348 349 Due after one year through five years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11,638 12,088 241 245 Due after five years through ten years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,212 10,931 27 29 Due after ten years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,313 4,545 22 24 U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,849 7,091 Non-U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,116 2,207 The amortized cost and fair value of debt securities as of December 31, 2020, by contractual maturity, were as follows: (in millions) Total debt securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38,079 39,828 638 647 The fair value of available-for-sale debt securities with gross unrealized losses by major security type and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position were as follows: (in millions) December 31, 2020 U.S. government and agency obligations . . . . . 346 (3) 346 (3) Corporate obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,273 (9) 456 (3) 1,729 (12) U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities . . . . . 601 (3) 601 (3) Non-U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195 (1) 93 (3) 288 (4) Total debt securities available-for-sale . . . . 2,415 (16) 549 (6) 2,964 (22) December 31, 2019 U.S. government and agency obligations . . . . . 616 (4) 616 (4) State and municipal obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . 440 (5) 440 (5) Corporate obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,903 (7) 740 (4) 2,643 (11) U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities . . . . . 657 (3) 333 (3) 990 (6) Non-U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406 (3) 406 (3) Total debt securities available-for-sale . . . . 4,022 (22) 1,073 (7) 5,095 (29) The Company s unrealized losses from all securities as of December 31, 2020 were generated from approximately 2,000 positions out of a total of 36,000 positions. The Company believes it will collect the timely principal and interest due on its debt securities having an amortized cost in excess of fair value. The unrealized losses were primarily caused by interest rate increases and not by unfavorable changes in the credit quality associated with these securities which impacted the Company s assessment on collectability of principal and interest. At each reporting period, the Company evaluates available-for-sale debt securities for any credit-related impairment when the fair value of the investment is less than its amortized cost. The Company evaluated the expected cash flows, the underlying credit quality and credit ratings of the issuers, and the potential economic impacts of COVID-19 on the issuers, noting no significant credit deterioration since purchase. As of December 31, 2020, the Company did not have the intent to sell any of the securities in an unrealized loss position. Therefore, the Company believes these losses to be temporary. The allowance for credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities at December 31, 2020 was not material. Less Than 12 Months 12 Months or Greater Total Gross Unrealized Losses Amortized Cost Available-for-Sale Held-to-Maturity Gross Unrealized Losses Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Losses Debt and Equity Securities. Fair values of debt and equity securities are based on quoted market prices, where available. The Company obtains one price for each security primarily from a third-party pricing service (pricing service), which generally uses quoted or other observable inputs for the determination of fair value. The pricing service normally derives the security prices through recently reported trades for identical or similar securities, and, if necessary, makes adjustments through the reporting date based upon available observable market information. For securities not actively traded, the pricing service may use quoted market prices of comparable instruments or discounted cash flow analyses, incorporating inputs currently observable in the markets for similar securities. Inputs often used in the valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to, benchmark yields, credit spreads, default rates, prepayment speeds and nonbinding broker quotes. As the Company is responsible for the determination of fair value, it performs quarterly analyses on the prices received from the pricing service to determine whether the prices are reasonable estimates of fair value. Specifically, the Company compares the prices received from the pricing service to prices reported by a secondary pricing source, such as its custodian, its investment consultant and third-party investment advisors. Additionally, the Company compares changes in the 4. Fair Value Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements or have fair values disclosed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These assets and liabilities are classified into one of three levels of a hierarchy defined by GAAP. In instances in which the inputs used to measure fair value fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the fair value measurement is categorized in its entirety based on the lowest level input which is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The Company s assessment of the significance of a particular item to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, including the consideration of inputs specific to the asset or liability. The fair value hierarchy is summarized as follows: There were no transfers in or out of Level 3 financial assets or liabilities during the years ended December 31, 2020 or 2019. Nonfinancial assets and liabilities or financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis are subject to fair value adjustments only in certain circumstances, such as when the Company records an impairment. There were no significant fair value adjustments for these assets and liabilities recorded during the years ended December 31, 2020 or 2019. The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value and determine the fair value hierarchy classification of each class of financial instrument included in the tables below: Cash and Cash Equivalents. The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value as maturities are less than three months. Fair values of cash equivalent instruments which do not trade on a regular basis in active markets are classified as Level 2. Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets liabilities in active markets. Level 2 Other observable inputs, either directly or indirectly, including: Level 3 Unobservable inputs cannot be corroborated by observable market data. Quoted prices for similar assets liabilities in active markets Quoted prices for identical or similar assets liabilities in inactive markets (e.g., few transactions, limited information, noncurrent prices, high variability over time) Inputs other than quoted prices observable for the asset liability (e.g., interest rates, yield curves, implied volatilities, credit spreads) and Inputs corroborated by other observable market data. reported market values and returns to relevant market indices to test the reasonableness of the reported prices. The Company s internal price verification procedures and reviews of fair value methodology documentation provided by independent pricing services have not historically resulted in adjustment to the prices obtained from the pricing service. Fair values of debt securities which do not trade on a regular basis in active markets but are priced using other observable inputs are classified as Level 2. Fair value estimates for Level 1 and Level 2 equity securities are based on quoted market prices for actively traded equity securities and or other market data for the same or comparable instruments and transactions in establishing the prices. The fair values of Level 3 investments in corporate bonds, which are not a significant portion of our investments, are estimated using valuation techniques relying heavily on management assumptions and qualitative observations. Throughout the procedures discussed above in relation to the Company s processes for validating third-party pricing information, the Company validates the understanding of assumptions and inputs used in security pricing and determines the proper classification in the hierarchy based on such understanding. Assets Under Management. Assets under management consists of debt securities and other investments held to fund costs associated with the AARP Program and are priced and classified using the same methodologies as the Company s investments in debt and equity securities. Long-Term Debt. The fair values of the Company s long-term debt are estimated and classified using the same methodologies as the Company s investments in debt securities. The following table presents a summary of fair value measurements by level and carrying values for items measured at fair value on a recurring basis in the Consolidated Balance Sheets: (in millions) December 31, 2020 Cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16,841 80 16,921 Debt securities available-for-sale: U.S. government and agency obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,241 224 3,465 State and municipal obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,328 7,328 Corporate obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 19,424 288 19,737 U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,091 7,091 Non-U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities . . . . . . . . . 2,207 2,207 Total debt securities available-for-sale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,266 36,274 288 39,828 Equity securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,795 33 1,828 Assets under management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,774 2,250 52 4,076 Total assets at fair value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23,676 38,637 340 62,653 Percentage of total assets at fair value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38% 61% 1% 100% December 31, 2019 Cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,837 148 10,985 Debt securities available-for-sale: U.S. government and agency obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,369 184 3,553 State and municipal obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,926 5,926 Corporate obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70 17,923 249 18,242 U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,528 6,528 Non-U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities . . . . . . . . . 1,845 1,845 Total debt securities available-for-sale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,439 32,406 249 36,094 Equity securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,734 22 1,756 Assets under management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,123 1,918 35 3,076 Total assets at fair value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17,133 34,494 284 51,911 Percentage of total assets at fair value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33% 66% 1% 100% The following table presents a summary of fair value measurements by level and carrying values for certain financial instruments not measured at fair value on a recurring basis in the Consolidated Balance Sheets: (in millions) December 31, 2020 Debt securities held-to-maturity . . . . . . . . 466 108 73 647 638 Long-term debt and other financing obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51,254 51,254 42,171 December 31, 2019 Debt securities held-to-maturity . . . . . . . . 541 181 253 975 972 Long-term debt and other financing obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45,078 45,078 40,278 Quoted Prices in Active Markets (Level 1) Other Observable Inputs (Level 2) Quoted Prices in Active Markets (Level 1) Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) Other Observable Inputs (Level 2) Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) Total Fair Value Total Carrying Value Total Fair and Carrying Value The carrying amounts reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets for other current financial assets and liabilities approximate fair value because of their short-term nature. These assets and liabilities are not listed in the table above. 5. Property, Equipment and Capitalized Software A summary of property, equipment and capitalized software is as follows: (in millions) Land and improvements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533 589 Buildings and improvements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,759 4,705 Computer equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,767 2,015 Furniture and fixtures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,787 1,752 Less accumulated depreciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (3,364) (3,328) Property and equipment, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,482 5,733 Capitalized software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,010 4,638 Less accumulated amortization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,866) (1,667) Capitalized software, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,144 2,971 Total property, equipment and capitalized software, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,626 8,704 Depreciation expense for property and equipment for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 997 million, 995 million and 924 million, respectively. Amortization expense for capitalized software for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 814 million, 721 million and 606 million, respectively. 6. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill, by reportable segment, were as follows: (in millions) UnitedHealthcare OptumHealth OptumInsight OptumRx Consolidated Balance at January 1, 2019 . . . . . . . . . . . 26,400 11,947 5,772 14,791 58,910 Acquisitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,022 3,395 2,521 6 6,944 Foreign currency effects and other adjustments, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (194) (1) (195) Balance at December 31, 2019 . . . . . . . . 27,228 15,342 8,292 14,797 65,659 Acquisitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,180 4,500 699 6,379 Foreign currency effects and other adjustments, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (623) 2 (119) 39 (701) Balance at December 31, 2020 . . . . . . . . 27,785 19,844 8,173 15,535 71,337 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 The gross carrying value, accumulated amortization and net carrying value of other intangible assets were as follows: (in millions) Customer-related . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13,428 (4,575) 8,853 12,968 (4,319) 8,649 Trademarks and technology . . . . . . . . . . . 1,597 (624) 973 1,186 (525) 661 Trademarks and other indefinite-lived . . . 680 680 726 726 Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606 (256) 350 541 (228) 313 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16,311 (5,455) 10,856 15,421 (5,072) 10,349 The acquisition date fair values and weighted-average useful lives assigned to finite-lived intangible assets acquired in business combinations consisted of the following by year of acquisition: (in millions, except years) Customer-related . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,113 11 years 1,750 13 years Trademarks and technology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 514 10 years 163 5 years Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95 10 years 119 11 years Total acquired finite-lived intangible assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,722 11 years 2,032 13 years Estimated full year amortization expense relating to intangible assets for each of the next five years ending December 31 is as follows: (in millions) 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,105 2022 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 998 2023 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933 2024 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887 2025 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850 Amortization expense relating to intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 1.1 billion, 1.0 billion and 898 million, respectively. Gross Carrying Value December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Value Gross Carrying Value Weighted- Average Useful Life Accumulated Amortization Weighted- Average Useful Life Net Carrying Value 7. Medical Costs Payable The following table shows the components of the change in medical costs payable for the years ended December 31: (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 Medical costs payable, beginning of period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21,690 19,891 17,871 Acquisitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 316 679 339 Reported medical costs: Current year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 160,276 157,020 145,723 Prior years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (880) (580) (320) Total reported medical costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 159,396 156,440 145,403 Medical payments: Payments for current year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (139,974) (137,155) (127,155) Payments for prior years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (19,556) (18,165) (16,567) Total medical payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (159,530) (155,320) (143,722) Medical costs payable, end of period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21,872 21,690 19,891 For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 medical cost reserve development was primarily driven by lower than expected health system utilization levels. For the year ended December 31, 2018, no individual factors significantly impacted medical cost reserve development. Medical costs payable included IBNR of 14.8 billion and 13.8 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Substantially all of the IBNR balance as of December 31, 2020 relates to the current year. The following is information about incurred and paid medical cost development as of December 31, 2020: (in millions) Net Incurred Medical Costs For the Years Ended December 31, Year 2019 2020 2019 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 157,020 156,217 2020 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 160,276 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 316,493 (in millions) Net Cumulative Medical Payments For the Years Ended December 31, Year 2019 2020 2019 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (137,155) (155,150) 2020 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (139,974) Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (295,124) Net remaining outstanding liabilities prior to 2019 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503 Total medical costs payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21,872 8. Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt Short-term borrowings and senior unsecured long-term debt consisted of the following: (in millions, except percentages) Commercial paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,296 1,296 1,296 400 400 400 2.700% notes due July 2020 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,500 1,499 1,506 Floating rate notes due October 2020 . . . . . . . . . . . . 300 300 300 3.875% notes due October 2020 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450 450 455 1.950% notes due October 2020 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900 899 900 4.700% notes due February 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400 400 401 400 403 410 2.125% notes due March 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750 750 753 750 749 753 Floating rate notes due June 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 350 350 350 350 349 350 3.150% notes due June 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400 400 405 400 399 407 3.375% notes due November 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 500 507 509 500 501 512 2.875% notes due December 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750 762 768 750 753 765 2.875% notes due March 2022 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,100 1,113 1,127 1,100 1,087 1,121 3.350% notes due July 2022 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,000 999 1,048 1,000 998 1,036 2.375% notes due October 2022 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900 897 935 900 896 911 0.000% notes due November 2022 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 14 14 15 13 14 2.750% notes due February 2023 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625 644 654 625 624 638 2.875% notes due March 2023 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750 789 793 750 770 770 3.500% notes due June 2023 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750 748 809 750 747 786 3.500% notes due February 2024 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750 747 821 750 746 792 2.375% notes due August 2024 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750 747 799 750 747 760 3.750% notes due July 2025 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,000 1,992 2,279 2,000 1,990 2,161 3.700% notes due December 2025 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300 298 344 300 298 325 1.250% notes due January 2026 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 500 496 515 3.100% notes due March 2026 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,000 997 1,121 1,000 996 1,048 3.450% notes due January 2027 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750 747 859 750 746 804 3.375% notes due April 2027 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625 620 714 625 620 667 2.950% notes due October 2027 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 950 940 1,067 950 939 988 3.850% notes due June 2028 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,150 1,143 1,367 1,150 1,142 1,269 3.875% notes due December 2028 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850 844 1,019 850 843 941 2.875% notes due August 2029 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,000 1,086 1,137 1,000 993 1,029 2.000% notes due May 2030 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,250 1,234 1,326 4.625% notes due July 2035 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,000 992 1,340 1,000 992 1,215 5.800% notes due March 2036 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850 839 1,271 850 838 1,129 6.500% notes due June 2037 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 500 492 800 500 492 712 6.625% notes due November 2037 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650 641 1,044 650 641 940 6.875% notes due February 2038 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,100 1,077 1,802 1,100 1,076 1,631 3.500% notes due August 2039 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,250 1,241 1,487 1,250 1,241 1,313 2.750% notes due May 2040 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,000 964 1,085 5.700% notes due October 2040 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300 296 451 300 296 396 5.950% notes due February 2041 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 350 346 540 350 345 475 4.625% notes due November 2041 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600 589 820 600 589 716 4.375% notes due March 2042 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 502 485 661 502 484 580 3.950% notes due October 2042 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625 608 790 625 607 688 4.250% notes due March 2043 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750 735 982 750 735 856 4.750% notes due July 2045 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,000 1,974 2,814 2,000 1,973 2,463 4.200% notes due January 2047 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750 738 991 750 738 861 4.250% notes due April 2047 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725 717 963 725 717 839 3.750% notes due October 2047 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 950 934 1,180 950 934 1,023 4.250% notes due June 2048 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,350 1,330 1,803 1,350 1,330 1,569 4.450% notes due December 2048 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,100 1,086 1,517 1,100 1,086 1,316 3.700% notes due August 2049 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,250 1,235 1,567 1,250 1,235 1,344 2.900% notes due May 2050 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,250 1,208 1,384 3.875% notes due August 2059 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,250 1,228 1,618 1,250 1,228 1,350 3.125% notes due May 2060 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,000 965 1,161 Total short-term borrowings and long-term debt . . . . 42,563 42,280 51,301 39,817 39,474 44,234 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Carrying Value Carrying Value The Company s long-term debt obligations also included 1.2 billion of other financing obligations as of both December 31, 2020 and 2019, of which 354 million and 322 million were current as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Maturities of short-term borrowings and long-term debt for the years ending December 31 are as follows: (in millions) 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,800 2022 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,180 2023 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,290 2024 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,665 2025 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,465 Thereafter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29,349 Short-Term Borrowings Commercial paper consists of short-duration, senior unsecured debt privately placed on a discount basis through broker-dealers. As of December 31, 2020, the Company s outstanding commercial paper had a weighted-average annual interest rate of 0.2%. The Company has 4.4 billion five-year, 4.4 billion three-year and 3.8 billion 364-day revolving bank credit facilities with 26 banks, which mature in December 2025, December 2023 and December 2021, respectively. These facilities provide full liquidity support for the Company s commercial paper program and are available for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2020, no amounts had been drawn on any of the bank credit facilities. The annual interest rates, which are variable based on term, are calculated based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a credit spread based on the Company s senior unsecured credit ratings. If amounts had been drawn on the bank credit facilities as of December 31, 2020, annual interest rates would have ranged from 0.8% to 1.0%. Debt Covenants The Company s bank credit facilities contain various covenants, including requiring the Company to maintain a debt to debt-plus-shareholders equity ratio of not more than 60%. The Company was in compliance with its debt covenants as of December 31, 2020. 9. Income Taxes The current income tax provision reflects the tax consequences of revenues and expenses currently taxable or deductible on various income tax returns for the year reported. The deferred income tax provision or benefit generally reflects the net change in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year, excluding any deferred income tax assets and liabilities of acquired businesses. The components of the provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31 are as follows: (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 Current Provision: Federal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,098 2,629 2,897 State and local . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392 319 219 Foreign . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 491 564 404 Total current provision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,981 3,512 3,520 Deferred (benefit) provision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (8) 230 42 Total provision for income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,973 3,742 3,562 Subtotal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,561 3,015 Less: valuation allowances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (170) (147) Tax provision at the U.S. federal statutory rate . . . . . . . . . . 4,356 21.0% 3,776 21.0% 3,348 21.0% State income taxes, net of federal benefit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 315 1.5 271 1.5 168 1.0 Share-based awards excess tax benefit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (130) (0.6) (132) (0.7) (161) (1.0) Non-deductible compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134 0.7 119 0.7 117 0.7 Health insurance tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626 3.0 552 3.5 Foreign rate differential . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (164) (0.8) (214) (1.2) (203) (1.3) Other, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (164) (0.8) (78) (0.5) (259) (1.6) The reconciliation of the tax provision at the U.S. federal statutory rate to the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate for the years ended December 31 is as follows: (in millions, except percentages) 2020 2019 2018 Provision for income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,973 24.0% 3,742 20.8% 3,562 22.3% Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the differences between the financial and income tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities based on enacted tax rates and laws. The components of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of December 31 are as follows: (in millions) 2020 2019 Deferred income tax assets: Accrued expenses and allowances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815 654 U.S. federal and state net operating loss carryforwards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 276 260 Share-based compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98 97 Nondeductible liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 252 184 Non-U.S. tax loss carryforwards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 340 420 Lease liability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,200 892 Other-domestic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126 179 Other-non-U.S. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 454 329 Total deferred income tax assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,391 2,868 Deferred income tax liabilities: U.S. federal and state intangible assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (2,588) (2,370) Non-U.S. goodwill and intangible assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (606) (735) Capitalized software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (731) (683) Depreciation and amortization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (346) (301) Prepaid expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (216) (172) Outside basis in partnerships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (342) (317) Lease right-of-use asset . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,179) (887) Net unrealized gains on investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (400) (177) Other-non-U.S. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (350) (219) Total deferred income tax liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (6,758) (5,861) Net deferred income tax liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (3,367) (2,993) Valuation allowances are provided when it is considered more likely than not deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowances primarily relate to future tax benefits on certain federal, state and non-U.S. net operating loss carryforwards. Gross federal net operating loss carryforwards of 100 million expire beginning in 2023 through 2037 and 309 million have an indefinite carryforward period state net operating loss carryforwards expire beginning in 2021 through 2040, with some having an indefinite carryforward period. Substantially all of the non-U.S. tax loss carryforwards have indefinite carryforward periods. Gross unrecognized tax benefits, beginning of period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,423 1,056 598 Gross increases: Current year tax positions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 416 512 487 Prior year tax positions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120 2 87 Gross decreases: Prior year tax positions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (130) (96) (84) Settlements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (46) (20) Statute of limitations lapses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (5) (12) As of December 31, 2020, the Company s undistributed earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in non-U.S. operations, and therefore no U.S. deferred taxes have been recorded. Taxes payable on the remittance of such earnings would be minimal. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31 is as follows: (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 Gross unrecognized tax benefits, end of period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,829 1,423 1,056 The Company believes it is reasonably possible its liability for unrecognized tax benefits will decrease in the next twelve months by 39 million as a result of audit settlements and the expiration of statutes of limitations. The Company classifies interest and penalties associated with uncertain income tax positions as income taxes within its Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized 52 million, 19 million and 6 million of interest and penalties, respectively. The Company had 128 million and 76 million of accrued interest and penalties for uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. These amounts are not included in the reconciliation above. As of December 31, 2020, there were 1.0 billion of unrecognized tax benefits which, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. The Company currently files income tax returns in the United States, various states and localities and non-U.S. jurisdictions. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed exams on the consolidated income tax returns for fiscal years 2016 and prior. The Company s 2017 through 2020 tax years are under review by the IRS under its Compliance Assurance Program. With the exception of a few states, the Company is no longer subject to income tax examinations prior to the 2013 tax year. In general, the Company is subject to examination in non-U.S. jurisdictions for years 2015 and forward. 10. Shareholders Equity Regulatory Capital and Dividend Restrictions The Company s regulated insurance and health maintenance organization (HMO) subsidiaries are subject to regulations and standards in their respective jurisdictions. These standards, among other things, require these subsidiaries to maintain specified levels of statutory capital, as defined by each jurisdiction, and restrict the timing and amount of dividends and other distributions which may be paid to their parent companies. In the United States, most of these state regulations and standards are generally consistent with model regulations established by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. These standards generally permit dividends to be paid from statutory unassigned surplus of the regulated subsidiary and are limited based on the regulated subsidiary s level of statutory net income and statutory capital and surplus. These dividends are referred to as ordinary dividends and generally may be paid without prior regulatory approval. If the dividend, together with other dividends paid within the preceding twelve months, exceeds a specified statutory limit or is paid from sources other than earned surplus, it is generally considered an extraordinary dividend and must receive prior regulatory approval. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company s domestic insurance and HMO subsidiaries paid their parent companies dividends of 8.3 billion, including 4.2 billion of extraordinary dividends. For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company s domestic insurance and HMO subsidiaries paid their parent companies dividends of 5.6 billion, including 1.3 billion of extraordinary dividends. The Company s global financially regulated subsidiaries had estimated aggregate statutory capital and surplus of 29.6 billion as of December 31, 2020. The estimated statutory capital and surplus necessary to satisfy regulatory requirements of the Company s global financially regulated subsidiaries was approximately 11.9 billion as of December 31, 2020. Optum Bank must meet minimum capital requirements of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) under the capital adequacy rules to which it is subject. At December 31, 2020, the Company believes Optum Bank met the FDIC requirements to be considered Well Capitalized. Share Repurchase Program Under its Board of Directors authorization, the Company maintains a share repurchase program. The objectives of the share repurchase program are to optimize the Company s capital structure and cost of capital, thereby improving returns to shareholders, as well as to offset the dilutive impact of share-based awards. Repurchases may be made from time to time in open market purchases or other types of transactions (including prepaid or structured share repurchase programs), subject to certain Board restrictions. In June 2018, the Board renewed the Company s share repurchase program with an authorization to repurchase up to 100 million shares of its common stock. A summary of common share repurchases for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 is as follows: (in millions, except per share data) 2020 2019 Common share repurchases, shares . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 22 Common share repurchases, average price per share . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300.58 245.97 Common share repurchases, aggregate cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,250 5,500 Board authorized shares remaining . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 72 In June 2020, the Company s Board of Directors increased the Company s quarterly cash dividend to shareholders to an annual rate of 5.00 compared to 4.32 per share, which the Company had paid since June 2019. Declaration and payment of future quarterly dividends is at the discretion of the Board and may be adjusted as business needs or market conditions change. The following table provides details of the Company s 2020 dividend payments: Payment Date (in millions) March 24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.08 1,024 June 30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.25 1,188 September 22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.25 1,188 December 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.25 1,184 11. Share-Based Compensation The Company s outstanding share-based awards consist mainly of non-qualified stock options and restricted shares. In June 2020, the Company s Board of Directors approved 48 million additional shares under the Plan. Amount per Share Years Ended December 31, Total Amount Paid As of December 31, 2020, the Company had 71 million shares available for future grants of share-based awards under the Plan. As of December 31, 2020, there were also 4 million shares of common stock available for issuance under the ESPP. Stock Options Stock option activity for the year ended December 31, 2020 is summarized in the table below: (in millions) (in years) (in millions) Outstanding at beginning of period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 166 Granted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 311 Exercised . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (10) 126 Forfeited . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1) 255 Outstanding at end of period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 211 6.6 3,937 Exercisable at end of period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 150 5.0 2,579 Vested and expected to vest, end of period . . . . . . . . . . . 27 210 6.5 3,892 (shares in millions) Shares Nonvested at beginning of period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 207 Granted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 303 Vested . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (2) 187 Nonvested at end of period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 256 Other Share-Based Compensation Data (in millions, except per share amounts) Stock Options Weighted-average grant date fair value of shares granted, per share . . . . . . . . . . . . 54 46 43 Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,736 1,398 1,431 Restricted Shares Weighted-average grant date fair value of shares granted, per share . . . . . . . . . . . . 303 259 229 Total fair value of restricted shares vested . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574 545 521 Employee Stock Purchase Plan Number of shares purchased . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 2 Share-Based Compensation Items Share-based compensation expense, before tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679 697 638 Share-based compensation expense, net of tax effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 619 641 587 Income tax benefit realized from share-based award exercises . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 208 201 239 (in millions, except years) December 31, 2020 Unrecognized compensation expense related to share awards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805 Weighted-average years to recognize compensation expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.4 Restricted Shares Restricted share activity for the year ended December 31, 2020 is summarized in the table below: Weighted- Average Exercise Price Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Life 2020 2019 2018 For the Years Ended December 31, Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Value per Share Aggregate Intrinsic Value Share-Based Compensation Recognition and Estimates The principal assumptions the Company used in calculating grant-date fair value for stock options were as follows: Risk-free interest rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0.2% - 1.4% 1.5% - 2.5% 2.6% - 3.1% Expected volatility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22.2% - 29.5% 19.4% - 21.6% 18.7% - 19.3% Expected dividend yield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.4% - 1.7% 1.4% - 1.8% 1.3% - 1.5% Forfeiture rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% Expected life in years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.1 5.3 5.6 Risk-free interest rates are based on U.S. Treasury yields in effect at the time of grant. Expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility of the Company s common stock and the implied volatility from exchange- traded options on the Company s common stock. Expected dividend yields are based on the per share cash dividend paid by the Company. The Company uses historical data to estimate option exercises and forfeitures within the valuation model. The expected lives of options granted represents the period of time the awards granted are expected to be outstanding based on historical exercise patterns. Other Employee Benefit Plans The Company offers a 401(k) plan for its employees. Compensation expense related to this plan was not material for 2020, 2019 and 2018. In addition, the Company maintains non-qualified, deferred compensation plans, which allow certain members of senior management and executives to defer portions of their salary or bonus. The deferrals are recorded within long-term investments with an approximately equal amount in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The total deferrals are distributable based upon termination of employment or other periods, as elected under each plan and were 1.6 billion and 1.4 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 12. Commitments and Contingencies Operating lease costs were 1.1 billion, 1.0 billion and 751 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and included immaterial variable and short-term lease costs for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. Cash payments made on the Company s operating lease liabilities were 865 million and 746 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, which were classified within operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. As of December 31, 2020, the Company s weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for its operating leases were 8.7 years and 3.0%, respectively. 2020 2019 2018 For the Years Ended December 31, As of December 31, 2020, future minimum annual lease payments under all non-cancelable operating leases were as follows: (in millions) 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865 2022 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775 2023 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 646 2024 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 538 2025 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 441 Thereafter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,781 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,447 Other Commitments The Company provides guarantees related to its service level under certain contracts. If minimum standards are not met, the Company may be financially at risk up to a stated percentage of the contracted fee or a stated dollar amount. None of the amounts accrued, paid or charged to income for service level guarantees were material as of December 31, 2020, 2019 or 2018. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had outstanding, undrawn letters of credit with financial institutions of 134 million and surety bonds outstanding with insurance companies of 1.2 billion, primarily to bond contractual performance. Pending Acquisitions In the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company entered into agreements to acquire multiple companies in the health care sector, which are expected to close in the first half of 2021, subject to regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions. Additionally, in January 2021, the Company entered into agreements to purchase multiple companies in the health care sector, most notably, Change Healthcare (NASDAQ: CHNG). This acquisition is expected to close in the second half of 2021, subject to Change Healthcare shareholders approval, regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. The total anticipated capital required for these acquisitions, excluding the payoff of acquired indebtedness, is approximately 13 billion. Legal Matters Because of the nature of its businesses, the Company is frequently made party to a variety of legal actions and regulatory inquiries, including class actions and suits brought by members, care providers, consumer advocacy organizations, customers and regulators, relating to the Company s businesses, including management and administration of health benefit plans and other services. These matters include medical malpractice, employment, intellectual property, antitrust, privacy and contract claims and claims related to health care benefits coverage and other business practices. The Company records liabilities for its estimates of probable costs resulting from these matters where appropriate. Estimates of costs resulting from legal and regulatory matters involving the Company are inherently difficult to predict, particularly where the matters: involve indeterminate claims for monetary damages or may involve fines, penalties or punitive damages present novel legal theories or represent a shift in regulatory policy involve a large number of claimants or regulatory bodies are in the early stages of the proceedings or could Total future minimum lease payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,046 Less imputed interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (599) Future Minimum Lease Payments Cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715 Accounts receivable and other current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 735 Property, equipment and other long-term assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816 Medical costs payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (316) Accounts payable and other current liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (861) Other long-term liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (817) result in a change in business practices. Accordingly, the Company is often unable to estimate the losses or ranges of losses for those matters where there is a reasonable possibility or it is probable a loss may be incurred. Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews The Company has been involved or is currently involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. These include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by CMS, state insurance and health and welfare departments, state attorneys general, the Office of the Inspector General, the Office of Personnel Management, the Office of Civil Rights, the Government Accountability Office, the Federal Trade Commission, U.S. Congressional committees, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), the SEC, the IRS, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, the U.S. Department of Labor, the FDIC, the Defense Contract Audit Agency and other governmental authorities. Similarly, our international businesses are also subject to investigations, audits and reviews by applicable foreign governments, including South American and other non-U.S. governmental authorities. Certain of the Company s businesses have been reviewed or are currently under review, including for, among other matters, compliance with coding and other requirements under the Medicare risk-adjustment model. CMS has selected certain of the Company s local plans for risk adjustment data validation (RADV) audits to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers and such audits may result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to the Company s health plans. On February 14, 2017, the DOJ announced its decision to pursue certain claims within a lawsuit initially asserted against the Company and filed under seal by a whistleblower in 2011. The whistleblower s complaint, which was unsealed on February 15, 2017, alleges the Company made improper risk adjustment submissions and violated the False Claims Act. On February 12, 2018, the court granted in part and denied in part the Company s motion to dismiss. In May 2018, DOJ moved to dismiss the Company s counterclaims, which were filed in March 2018, and moved for partial summary judgment. In March 2019, the court denied the government s motion for partial summary judgment and dismissed the Company s counterclaims without prejudice. The Company cannot reasonably estimate the outcome which may result from this matter given its procedural status. 13. Business Combinations During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company completed several business combinations for total cash consideration of 7.9 billion. The total consideration exceeded the fair value of the net tangible assets acquired by 8.1 billion, of which 1.7 billion has been allocated to finite-lived intangible assets and 6.4 billion to goodwill. The majority of goodwill is not deductible for income tax purposes. Acquired tangible assets (liabilities) at acquisition date were: (in millions) Total net tangible assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272 The preliminary purchase price allocations for the various business combinations are subject to adjustment as valuation analyses, primarily related to intangible assets and contingent and tax liabilities, are finalized. See Note 6 for a summary of the acquisition date fair values and weighted-average useful lives assigned to acquired finite- lived intangible assets. The results of operations and financial condition of acquired entities have been included in the Company s consolidated results and the results of the corresponding operating segment as of date of acquisition. Through December 31, 2020, acquired entities impact on revenue and net earnings was not material. Unaudited pro forma revenues for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 as if the acquisitions had occurred on January 1, 2019 were immaterial for both periods. The pro forma effects of the acquisitions on net earnings were immaterial for both years. 14. Segment Financial Information Factors used to determine the Company s reportable segments include the nature of operating activities, economic characteristics, existence of separate senior management teams and the type of information used by the Company s chief operating decision maker to evaluate its results of operations. Reportable segments with similar economic characteristics, products and services, customers, distribution methods and operational processes which operate in a similar regulatory environment are combined. The following is a description of the types of products and services from which each of the Company s four reportable segments derives its revenues: UnitedHealthcare includes the combined results of operations of UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement, UnitedHealthcare Community & State and UnitedHealthcare Global. The U.S. businesses share significant common assets, including a contracted network of physicians, health care professionals, hospitals and other facilities, information technology and consumer engagement infrastructure and other resources. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual offers an array of consumer- oriented health benefit plans and services for large national employers, public sector employers, mid-sized employers, small businesses and individuals nationwide. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health care coverage and health and well-being services to individuals age 50 and older, addressing their unique needs for preventive and acute health care services as well as services dealing with chronic disease and other specialized issues for older individuals. UnitedHealthcare Community & State provides diversified health care benefits products and services to state programs caring for the economically disadvantaged and the medically underserved. UnitedHealthcare Community & State s primary customers oversee Medicaid plans, the Children s Health Insurance Program and other federal, state and community health care programs. UnitedHealthcare Global provides health and dental benefits and hospital and clinical services to employer groups and individuals in South America, and other diversified global health businesses. OptumHealth focuses on care delivery, care management, wellness and consumer engagement, and health financial services. OptumHealth is building a comprehensive, connected health care delivery and engagement platform by directly providing high-quality care, helping people manage chronic and complex health needs, and proactively engaging consumers in managing their health through in-person, virtual and digital clinical platforms. OptumHealth offers access to networks of care provider specialists, health management services, care delivery, consumer engagement and financial services. OptumInsight brings together advanced analytics, technology and health care expertise to deliver integrated services and solutions. Hospital systems, physicians, health plans, governments, life sciences companies and other organizations comprising the health care industry depend on OptumInsight to help them improve performance, achieve efficiency, reduce costs, meet compliance mandates and modernize their core operating systems to meet the changing needs of the health system. OptumRx offers pharmacy care services and programs, including retail network contracting, home delivery, specialty and community health pharmacy services, purchasing and clinical capabilities, and develops programs in areas such as step therapy, formulary management, drug adherence and disease drug therapy management. OptumRx integrates pharmacy and medical care and is positioned to serve patients with complex clinical needs and consumers looking for a better digital pharmacy experience with transparent pricing. The Company s accounting policies for reportable segment operations are consistent with those described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (see Note 2). Transactions between reportable segments principally consist of sales of pharmacy care products and services to UnitedHealthcare customers by OptumRx, certain product offerings and care management and local care delivery services sold to UnitedHealthcare by OptumHealth, and health information and technology solutions, consulting and other services sold to UnitedHealthcare by OptumInsight. These transactions are recorded at management s estimate of fair value. Transactions with affiliated customers are eliminated in consolidation. Assets and liabilities jointly used are assigned to each reportable segment using estimates of pro-rata usage. Cash and investments are assigned so each reportable segment has working capital and or at least minimum specified levels of regulatory capital. As a percentage of the Company s total consolidated revenues, premium revenues from CMS were 36%, 33% and 30% for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, most of which were generated by UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement and included in the UnitedHealthcare segment. U.S. customer revenue represented approximately 97%, 96% and 96% of consolidated total revenues for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Long-lived fixed assets located in the United States represented approximately 75% and 72% of the total long-lived fixed assets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The non-U.S. revenues and fixed assets are primarily related to UnitedHealthcare Global. Earnings from operations . . . . . . . . 9,113 2,430 2,243 3,558 8,231 17,344 Interest expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,400) (1,400) The following table presents the reportable segment financial information: (in millions) UnitedHealthcare OptumHealth OptumInsight OptumRx 2020 Revenues unaffiliated customers: Premiums . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191,679 9,799 9,799 201,478 Products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 135 33,977 34,145 34,145 Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,464 6,815 3,687 1,050 11,552 20,016 Total revenues unaffiliated customers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200,143 16,647 3,822 35,027 55,496 255,639 Total revenues affiliated customers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22,481 6,941 52,420 (1,800) 80,042 (80,042) Investment and other income . . . . . 732 680 39 51 770 1,502 Total revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200,875 39,808 10,802 87,498 (1,800) 136,308 (80,042) 257,141 Earnings from operations . . . . . . . . 12,359 3,434 2,725 3,887 10,046 22,405 Interest expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,663) (1,663) Earnings before income taxes . . . . . 12,359 3,434 2,725 3,887 10,046 (1,663) 20,742 Total assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98,229 52,073 15,425 39,280 106,778 (7,718) 197,289 Purchases of property, equipment and capitalized software . . . . . . . 687 715 461 188 1,364 2,051 Depreciation and amortization . . . . 920 703 670 598 1,971 2,891 2019 Revenues unaffiliated customers: Premiums . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 183,783 5,916 5,916 189,699 Products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 116 31,450 31,597 31,597 Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,922 5,732 3,630 689 10,051 18,973 Total revenues unaffiliated customers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 192,705 11,679 3,746 32,139 47,564 240,269 Total revenues affiliated customers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17,966 6,239 42,093 (1,661) 64,637 (64,637) Investment and other income . . . . . 1,137 672 21 56 749 1,886 Total revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193,842 30,317 10,006 74,288 (1,661) 112,950 (64,637) 242,155 Earnings from operations . . . . . . . . 10,326 2,963 2,494 3,902 9,359 19,685 Interest expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,704) (1,704) Earnings before income taxes . . . . . 10,326 2,963 2,494 3,902 9,359 (1,704) 17,981 Total assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88,250 40,444 15,181 36,346 91,971 (6,332) 173,889 Purchases of property, equipment and capitalized software . . . . . . . 841 573 495 162 1,230 2,071 Depreciation and amortization . . . . 926 565 672 557 1,794 2,720 2018 Revenues unaffiliated customers: Premiums . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 174,282 3,805 3,805 178,087 Products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52 111 29,438 29,601 29,601 Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,366 4,925 3,280 612 8,817 17,183 Total revenues unaffiliated customers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 182,648 8,782 3,391 30,050 42,223 224,871 Total revenues affiliated customers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14,882 5,596 39,440 (1,409) 58,509 (58,509) Investment and other income . . . . . 828 481 21 46 548 1,376 Total revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 183,476 24,145 9,008 69,536 (1,409) 101,280 (58,509) 226,247 Earnings before income taxes . . . . . 9,113 2,430 2,243 3,558 8,231 (1,400) 15,944 Total assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82,938 29,837 11,039 33,912 74,788 (5,505) 152,221 Purchases of property, equipment and capitalized software . . . . . . . 761 593 517 192 1,302 2,063 Depreciation and amortization . . . . 845 439 654 490 1,583 2,428 Optum Eliminations Optum Corporate and Eliminations Consolidated ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES We maintain disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) designed to provide reasonable assurance the information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms and (ii) accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In connection with the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, management evaluated, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2020. Based upon their evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level as of December 31, 2020. CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2020 which have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Management of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Subsidiaries (the Company) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s internal control system is designed to provide reasonable assurance to our management and board of directors regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013). Based on our assessment and the COSO criteria, we believe that, as of December 31, 2020, the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. The Company s independent registered public accounting firm has audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, as stated in the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, appearing under Item 9A. Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting as of December 31, 2020 To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Subsidiaries: Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and subsidiaries (the Company ) as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO. Minneapolis, Minnesota March 1, 2021 We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020, of the Company and our report dated March 1, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. Basis for Opinion The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting as of December 31, 2020. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. s DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANT The following sets forth certain information regarding our directors as of March 1, 2021, including their name and principal occupation or employment: Richard T. Burke Lead Independent Director UnitedHealth Group Timothy P. Flynn Retired Chair KPMG International Stephen J. Hemsley Chair UnitedHealth Group Michele J. Hooper President and Chief Executive Officer The Directors Council F. William McNabb III Former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Vanguard Group, Inc. Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K and the Instruction to Item 401 of Regulation S-K, information regarding our executive officers is provided in Part I, Item 1 under the caption Executive Officers of the Registrant. We have adopted a code of ethics applicable to our principal executive officer and other senior financial officers, who include our principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, controller and persons performing similar functions. The code of ethics, entitled Code of Conduct: Our Principles of Ethics and Integrity, is posted on our website at www.unitedhealthgroup.com. For information about how to obtain the Code of Conduct, see Part I, Item 1, Business. We intend to satisfy the SEC s disclosure requirements regarding amendments to, or waivers of, the code of ethics for our senior financial officers by posting such information on our website indicated above. The remaining information required by Items 401, 405, 406 and 407(c)(3), (d)(4) and (d)(5) of Regulation S-K will be included under the headings Corporate Governance and Proposal 1-Election of Directors in our definitive proxy statement for our 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information required by Items 402 and 407(e)(4) and (e)(5) of Regulation S-K will be included under the headings Executive Compensation, Director Compensation, Corporate Governance Risk Oversight and Valerie Montgomery Rice, M.D. President and Dean Morehouse School of Medicine John H. Noseworthy, M.D. Former Chief Executive Officer and President Mayo Clinic Glenn M. Renwick Former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Progressive Corporation Gail R. Wilensky, Ph.D. Senior Fellow Project HOPE Andrew P. Witty Chief Executive Officer UnitedHealth Group Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation in our definitive proxy statement for our 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS The information required by section 201(d) and Item 403 of Regulation S-K will be included under the headings Equity Compensation Plan Information and Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management in our definitive proxy statement for our 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The information required by Items 404 and 407(a) of Regulation S-K will be included under the headings Certain Relationships and Transactions and Corporate Governance in our definitive proxy statement for our 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES The information required by Item 9(e) of Schedule 14A will be included under the heading Disclosure of Fees Paid to Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm in our definitive proxy statement for our 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 15. EXHIBIT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES (a) 1. Financial Statements The financial statements are included under Item 8 of this report: The following financial statement schedule of the Company is included in Item 15(c): All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations of the SEC are not required under the related instructions, are inapplicable, or the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements, and therefore have been omitted. Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019. Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018. Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018. Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018. Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2. Financial Statement Schedules Schedule I Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company Only). (b) The following exhibits are filed or incorporated by reference herein in response to Item 601 of Regulation S-K. The Company files Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 under Commission File No. 1-10864. EXHIBIT INDEX 10.1 UnitedHealth Group 2020 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by UnitedHealth Group 2020 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-8, SEC File Number 333-238854, filed on June 1, 2020) 10.2 Form of Agreement for Restricted Stock Unit Award to Executives under UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s 2020 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2020) 10.3 Form of Agreement for Nonqualified Stock Option Award to Executives under UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s 2020 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2020) 10.4 Form of Agreement for Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award to Executives under UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s 2020 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2020) 3.1 Certificate of Incorporation of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Registration Statement on Form 8-A A, Commission File No. 1-10864, filed on July 1, 2015) 3.2 Amended and Restated Bylaws of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, effective February 23, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 26, 2021) 4.1 Senior Indenture, dated as of November 15, 1998, between United HealthCare Corporation and The Bank of New York (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Registration Statement on Form S-3 A, SEC File Number 333-66013, filed on January 11, 1999) 4.2 Amendment, dated as of November 6, 2000, to Senior Indenture, dated as of November 15, 1998, between the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and The Bank of New York (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001) 4.3 Instrument of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance of Trustee, dated January 8, 2007, pursuant to the Senior Indenture, dated as of November 15, 1988, amended as of November 6, 2000, among UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, The Bank of New York and Wilmington Trust Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007) 4.4 Indenture, dated as of February 4, 2008, between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Registration Statement on Form S-3, SEC File Number 333-149031, filed on February 4, 2008) 4.5 Description of Common Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019) 10.5 Form of Agreement for Deferred Stock Unit Award to Non-Employee Directors under UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s 2020 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2020) 10.7 Amended and Restated UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Executive Incentive Plan (2009 Statement), effective as of December 31, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008) 10.8 Amended and Restated UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2008 Executive Incentive Plan, effective as of December 31, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008) 10.9 Amendment, dated as of December 21, 2012, of Amended and Restated UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2008 Executive Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012) 10.10 Second Amendment, dated as of November 5, 2015, of Amended and Restated UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2008 Executive Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2015) 10.11 UnitedHealth Group Executive Savings Plan (2021 Statement) 10.12 Summary of Non-Management Director Compensation, effective as of September 1, 2020 10.13 UnitedHealth Group Directors Compensation Deferral Plan (2009 Statement) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008) 10.14 Amendment to the UnitedHealth Group Directors Compensation Deferral Plan, effective as of January 1, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009) 10.15 First Amendment to UnitedHealth Group Directors Compensation Deferral Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010) 10.16 Catamaran Corporation Third Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Registration Statement on Form S-8, SEC File Number 333-205824, filed on July 23, 2015) 10.17 Catalyst Health Solutions, Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Registration Statement on Form S-8, SEC File Number 333-205824, filed on July 23, 2015) 10.18 Audax Health Solutions, Inc. 2010 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-8, SEC File Number 333-205826, filed on February 15, 2017) 10.19 Surgical Care Affiliates, Inc. 2016 Omnibus Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8 to Registration Statement on Form S-4, SEC File Number 333-216153, filed on March 27, 2017) 10.6 Form of Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 1, 2015) 10.20 Surgical Care Affiliates, Inc. 2013 Omnibus Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8 to Registration Statement on Form S-4, SEC File Number 333-216153, filed on March 27, 2017) 10.21 Surgical Care Affiliates, Inc. Management Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8 to Registration Statement on Form S-4, SEC File Number 333-216153, filed on March 27, 2017) 10.22 Surgical Care Affiliates, Inc. Directors and Consultants Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8 to Registration Statement on Form S-4, SEC File Number 333-216153, filed on March 27, 2017) 10.23 The Advisory Board Company Amended and Restated 2009 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The Advisory Board Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 15, 2015) 10.24 The Advisory Board Company 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The Advisory Board Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 17, 2005) 10.25 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective as of December 1, 2014, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and David Wichmann (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2015) 10.26 Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of August 16, 2017, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and David Wichmann (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017) 10.27 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of June 7, 2016, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and John Rex (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2016) 10.28 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated February 3, 2021 between the Company and Andrew P. Witty (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 5.02 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Current Report on Form8-K filed on February 8, 2021) 10.29 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective as of March 16, 2015, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Dirk McMahon (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.44 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019) 10.30 Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of May 31, 2017, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Dirk McMahon (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.45 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019) 10.31 Amendment to Employment Agreement, effective as of March 12, 2019, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Dirk McMahon (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.46 to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019) 10.32 Employment Agreement, effective as of October 31, 2019, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Patricia Lewis 11.1 Statement regarding computation of per share earnings (incorporated by reference to the information contained under the heading Net Earnings Per Common Share in Note 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements ) 101.INS XBRL Instance Document the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document. 101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document. 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document. 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document. 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as Inline XBRL and embedded within Exhibit 101). Denotes management contracts and compensation plans in which certain directors and named executive officers participate and which are being filed pursuant to Item 601(b)(10)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K. Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, copies of instruments defining the rights of certain holders of long-term debt are not filed. The Company will furnish copies thereof to the SEC upon request. (c) Financial Statement Schedule Schedule I Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company Only). 21.1 Subsidiaries of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 24.1 Power of Attorney 31.1 Certifications pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1 Certifications pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Schedule I REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Subsidiaries: Opinion on the Financial Statement Schedule We have audited the consolidated financial statements of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Subsidiaries (the Company ) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, and the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, and have issued our reports thereon dated March 1, 2021 such reports are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of the Company listed in the Index at Item 15. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s financial statement schedule based on our audits. In our opinion, the financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. s DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP Minneapolis, Minnesota March 1, 2021 Total current liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9,936 4,986 Long-term debt, less current maturities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37,815 35,926 Long-term notes payable to subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,314 Other liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655 331 Schedule I (in millions, except per share data) Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258 46 Other current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562 787 Total current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820 833 Equity in net assets of subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107,714 93,467 Long-term notes receivable from subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,021 5,079 Other assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342 794 Total assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113,897 100,173 Liabilities and shareholders equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable and accrued liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 589 688 Current portion of notes payable to subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,882 750 Short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt . . . . . . . . 4,465 3,548 Total liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48,406 42,557 Commitments and contingencies (Note 4) Shareholders equity: Preferred stock, 0.001 par value 10 shares authorized no shares issued or outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Common stock, 0.01 par value 3,000 shares authorized 946 and 948 issued and outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 9 Additional paid-in capital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Retained earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69,295 61,178 Accumulated other comprehensive loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (3,814) (3,578) Total UnitedHealth Group shareholders equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65,491 57,616 Total liabilities and shareholders equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113,897 100,173 See Notes to the Condensed Financial Statements of Registrant Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company Only) UnitedHealth Group Condensed Balance Sheets December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Schedule I (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 Revenues: Investment and other income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 194 209 194 Total revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 194 209 194 Operating costs: Operating costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 38 35 Interest expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,594 1,580 1,285 Total operating costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,621 1,618 1,320 Loss before income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,427) (1,409) (1,126) Benefit for income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300 293 251 Loss of parent company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,127) (1,116) (875) Equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16,530 14,955 12,861 Net earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,403 13,839 11,986 Other comprehensive (loss) income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (236) 582 (1,517) Comprehensive income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,167 14,421 10,469 See Notes to the Condensed Financial Statements of Registrant Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company Only) UnitedHealth Group Condensed Statements of Comprehensive Income For the Years Ended December 31, Schedule I (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 Operating activities Cash flows from operating activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,842 9,275 6,099 Investing activities Issuances of notes to subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (628) (2,722) (1,420) Repayments of notes to subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,089 2,249 1,419 Cash paid for acquisitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (7,706) (9,645) (4,066) Return of capital to parent company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943 4,497 4,196 Capital contributions to subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (43) (803) (1,259) Other, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 143 490 4 Cash flows used for investing activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (6,202) (5,934) (1,126) Financing activities Common stock repurchases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (4,250) (5,500) (4,500) Proceeds from common stock issuances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,440 1,037 838 Cash dividends paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (4,584) (3,932) (3,320) Proceeds from (repayments of) short-term borrowings, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872 300 (201) Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,864 5,444 6,935 Repayments of long-term debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (3,150) (1,750) (2,600) Proceeds (repayments) of notes from subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,818 1,207 (1,127) Other, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (438) (535) (923) Cash flows used for financing activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (2,428) (3,729) (4,898) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 212 (388) 75 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 434 359 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258 46 434 Supplemental cash flow disclosures Cash paid for interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,633 1,506 1,294 Cash paid for income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,185 2,590 2,379 See Notes to the Condensed Financial Statements of Registrant Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company Only) UnitedHealth Group Condensed Statements of Cash Flows For the Years Ended December 31, Investment in Subsidiaries. UnitedHealth Group s investment in subsidiaries is stated at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries. Dividends and Capital Distributions. Cash dividends received from subsidiaries and included in Cash Flows from Operating Activities in the Condensed Statements of Cash Flows were 10.0 billion, 5.6 billion and 5.6 billion in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Additionally, 0.9 billion, 4.5 billion and 4.2 billion in cash were received as a return of capital to the parent company during 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Schedule I 1. Basis of Presentation UnitedHealth Group s parent company financial information has been derived from its consolidated financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. The accounting policies for the registrant are the same as those described in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements. 2. Subsidiary Transactions 3. Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt Discussion of short-term borrowings and long-term debt can be found in Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements. Long-term debt obligations of the parent company do not include other financing obligations at subsidiaries which totaled 1.2 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019. Maturities of short-term borrowings and long-term debt for the years ending December 31 are as follows: (in millions) 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,446 2022 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,015 2023 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,125 2024 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,500 2025 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,300 Thereafter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29,177 UnitedHealth Group s parent company had notes payable to subsidiaries of 4.9 billion as of December 31, 2020, which included on-demand features. 4. Commitments and Contingencies Certain regulated subsidiaries are guaranteed by UnitedHealth Group s parent company in the event of insolvency. UnitedHealth Group s parent company also provides guarantees related to its service level under certain contracts. None of the amounts accrued, paid or charged to income for service level guarantees were material as of December 31, 2020, 2019 or 2018. For a summary of commitments and contingencies, see Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements. ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company Only) UnitedHealth Group Notes to Condensed Financial Statements Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. Dated: March 1, 2021 By s DANNETTE L. SMITH Dannette L. Smith As Attorney-in-Fact Valerie C. Montgomery Rice, M.D. Director March 1, 2021 John H. Noseworthy, M.D. Director March 1, 2021 Gail R. Wilensky, Ph.D. Director March 1, 2021 F. William McNabb III Director March 1, 2021 S ANDREW P. WITTY S THOMAS E. ROOS Stephen J. Hemsley Director March 1, 2021 Glenn M. Renwick Director March 1, 2021 Michele J. Hooper Director March 1, 2021 Richard T. Burke Director March 1, 2021 Timothy P. Flynn Director March 1, 2021 Andrew P. Witty Director and Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer) Thomas E. Roos Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (principal accounting officer) S JOHN F. REX John F. Rex Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer) Signature Title Date SIGNATURES UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INCORPORATED By s ANDREW P. WITTY Andrew P. Witty Chief Executive Officer March 1, 2021 March 1, 2021 March 1, 2021