(Mark One) 55 Glenlake Parkway, N.E. Atlanta, Georgia 30328 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes x No reporting company, and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. x counter market, but each share of the registrant s class A common stock is convertible into one share of the registrant s class B common stock. ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes x No Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes No x Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (Section 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See definitions of large accelerated filer , accelerated filer , smaller If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes No x The aggregate market value of the class B common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was 78,510,244,191 as of June 30, 2020. The registrant s class A common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange or traded in an organized over-the- As of February 5, 2021, there were 147,531,933 outstanding shares of class A common stock and 719,506,596 outstanding shares of class B common stock. Portions of the registrant s definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of shareowners scheduled for May 13, 2021 are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report. Large accelerated filer x Accelerated filer Non-accelerated filer Smaller reporting company Emerging growth company Class B common stock, par value .01 per share UPS New York Stock Exchange 0.375% Senior Notes due 2023 UPS23A New York Stock Exchange 1.625% Senior Notes due 2025 UPS25 New York Stock Exchange 1.500% Senior Notes due 2032 UPS32 New York Stock Exchange 1% Senior Notes due 2028 UPS28 New York Stock Exchange Title of Each Class Trading Symbol Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization) Delaware 58-2480149 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: For the transition period from to DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Class A common stock, par value .01 per share For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 United Parcel Service, Inc.  UNITED STATES Commission file number 001-15451 Washington, D.C. 20549 Form 10-K (404) 828-6000 (Title of Class) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 16 Item 2. Properties 17 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 18 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 18 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 21 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 54 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 56 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 131 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 131 Item 9B. Other Information 133 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 134 Item 11. Executive Compensation 135 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 135 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 135 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 135 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 136 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 136 Competitive Strengths 2 Products and Services Reporting Segments 2 Human Capital 5 Customers 6 Competition 6 Government Regulation 6 Where You Can Find More Information 8 Operating Facilities 17 Shareowner Return Performance Graph 20 Overview 22 Supplemental Information - Items Affecting Comparability 24 U.S. Domestic Package Operations 28 International Package Operations 31 Supply Chain & Freight Operations 34 Consolidated Operating Expenses 36 Other Income and (Expense) 39 Income Tax Expense 40 Liquidity and Capital Resources 41 Collective Bargaining Agreements 47 New Accounting Pronouncements 47 Rate Adjustments 48 Critical Accounting Estimates 49 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K TABLE OF CONTENTS Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements other than those of current or historical fact, and all statements accompanied by terms such as will, believe, project, expect, estimate, assume, intend, anticipate, target, plan and similar terms, are intended to be forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made subject to the safe harbor provisions of the federal securities laws pursuant to Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. expectations about our strategic direction, prospects and future results, and give our current expectations or forecasts of future events they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Management believes that these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made. However, caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because such statements speak only as of the date when made. expectations or anticipated results. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report and may also be described from time to time in our future reports filed with the SEC. You should consider the limitations on, and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. Item 1. Business offer a broad range of industry-leading products and services through our extensive presence in North America Europe the Indian sub-continent, Middle East and Africa ( ISMEA ) Asia Pacific and Latin America. Our services include transportation, distribution, contract logistics, ground freight, ocean freight, air freight, customs brokerage and insurance. million shipping customers to 11.8 million delivery customers in over 220 countries and territories. In 2020, we delivered an average of 24.7 million packages per day, totaling 6.3 billion during the year. Total revenue in 2020 was 84.6 billion. customers are changing, our competitors are changing, and the rate of change is accelerating. We are guided by our strategy, Customer First, People Led, Innovation Driven, as we transform nearly every aspect of our business. they tell us matter the most speed and ease. We believe that our best opportunities are captured in, and we are focusing on, our three strategic growth initiatives: small- and medium- sized businesses ( SMBs ), healthcare and international markets. We seek to grow in these areas by providing the best digital experience powered by our global smart logistics network. We will measure our success in this area through improvements in our net promoter score. strong culture, so we are striving to make UPS a great place to work. Through our transformation initiatives, we are creating fewer but more impactful jobs. We are also enhancing the employee value proposition to align with evolving market practices. We will measure our success on this strategic initiative through the employee experience. Customer First is about reducing the friction of doing business. We seek to help our customers seize new opportunities, compete, and succeed by delivering the capabilities that People Led specifically focuses on how likely an employee is to recommend UPS employment to a friend or family member. We know successful outcomes are built from a This report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) contain and in the future may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning From time to time, we also include written or oral forward-looking statements in other publicly disclosed materials. Such statements relate to our intent, belief and current Forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present United Parcel Service, Inc. ( UPS ), founded in 1907, is the world s largest package delivery company and a premier provider of global supply chain management solutions. We We operate one of the largest airlines in the world, as well as the world s largest fleet of alternative fuel vehicles. We deliver packages each business day for approximately 1.7 Our business sits at the intersection of major economic and societal trends, such as rapid urbanization and e-commerce growth. As we look ahead, we recognize that our opportunities in our target markets. In the United States, our aim is to improve revenue mix and lower our cost to serve in the U.S. Domestic Package segment. Within the International Package and Supply Chain & Freight segments, our focus is on growing operating profit. We will measure our success on this strategic initiative through our returns on invested capital and operating margins. Competitive Strengths (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial and residential) through a single pickup and delivery network. Our sophisticated engineering systems allow us to optimize network efficiency and asset utilization. efficiently operate globally. improve service and increase efficiency. We offer a variety of online tools that enable our customers to integrate UPS functionality into their own websites, deepening our customer relationships. These tools allow customers to send, manage and track their shipments, and also to provide their customers with better information services. solutions that integrate our services beyond package delivery. For example, supply chain services such as freight forwarding, truckload brokerage, customs brokerage, order fulfillment and returns management help improve the efficiency of our customers entire supply chain management process. small package and supply chain services across our customer base, are important retention tools and growth mechanisms for us. major contributors to our brand equity. stock ownership was a vital foundation for successful business, and the employee stock ownership tradition dates back to our first stock ownership program in 1927. development pursuing strategic opportunities that facilitate our growth and maintaining a strong credit rating that gives us flexibility in running the business. Products and Services Reporting Segments referred to as our global small package operations. Global Small Package services are supported by numerous shipping, visibility and billing technologies. For example, our Digital Access Program makes it easier for SMBs to use our services by embedding our shipping solutions directly into leading e-commerce platforms. network, unless dictated by specific service commitments. This enables us to efficiently pick up customers shipments for any services at a scheduled time each day. Our integrated network provides unique operational and capital efficiencies that have a lower environmental impact than single service network designs. Innovation Driven is designed to optimize the volume that flows through our network, to focus on increasing value share and drive business growth from higher-yielding A Broad Portfolio of Services. Our portfolio of services helps customers choose their most appropriate delivery option. Increasingly, our customers benefit from UPS business Our competitive strengths include: An Efficient Multimodal Network. We believe that our integrated global air and ground network is the most extensive in the industry. We provide all types of package services Global Presence. We serve more than 220 countries and territories. We have a significant presence in all of the world s major economies, allowing us to effectively and Cutting-Edge Technology. We are a global leader in developing technology that helps our customers enhance their shipping and logistics business processes to lower costs, Customer Relationships. We focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships. Providing value-added services beyond package delivery, and cross-selling Brand Equity. We have built a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality, reliability and service innovation. Our vehicles and the professional courtesy of our drivers are Distinctive Culture. We believe that the dedication of our employees comes in large part from our distinctive employee-owner culture. Our founders believed that employee Financial Strength. Our financial strength allows us to generate value for our shareowners by investing in technology, transportation equipment, facilities and employee We have three reporting segments: U.S. Domestic Package, International Package and Supply Chain & Freight. U.S. Domestic Package and International Package are together Our global small package operations provide time-definite delivery services for express letters, documents, packages and palletized freight via air and ground services. These All services (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial and residential) are managed through a single, global smart logistics network. We combine all packages within our us at locations and times convenient to them. This includes UPS drivers who can accept packages, UPS drop boxes, UPS Access Point locations, The UPS Store locations, authorized shipping outlets and commercial counters, alliance locations and customer centers attached to UPS facilities. Our UPS Access Point network includes local small businesses, national retailers and self-serve lockers. This network allows consumers to ship or redirect packages to an alternate delivery location or to drop off pre-labeled packages, including returns. We have expanded the UPS Access Point network to approximately 21,000 locations within the U.S. and 40,000 globally. customers need for efficient and reliable returns, and is designed to promote efficiency and a friction-free consumer experience. This portfolio provides a range of cost-effective label and digital returns options and a broad network of consumer drop points. We also offer a selection of returns technologies, such as UPS Returns Manager, that promote systems integration, increase customer ease of use and visibility of inbound merchandise. These technologies help reduce costs and improve efficiency in our customers' reverse logistics processes. Germany, China, Hong Kong, Canada and Florida (for Latin America and the Caribbean). This network design enables cost-effective package processing in our most technology- enabled facilities, which allows us to use fewer, larger and more fuel-efficient aircraft. U.S. Domestic Package transportation services. Our U.S. ground fleet serves all business and residential zip codes in the contiguous United States. enabling broader market coverage. We are the only carrier that provides both commercial and residential pickup and delivery services on Saturdays as a general service offering. We also improved ground transit times between millions of zip codes in the most populous U.S. markets and expanded our Digital Access Program by connecting UPS directly to more e- commerce platforms, improving access to our network. International Package time-definite international shipping services, including more guaranteed time-definite express options than any other carrier. border ground package delivery, we offer UPS Standard delivery services within Europe, between the U.S. and Canada, and between the U.S. and Mexico. UPS Worldwide Express Freight is a premium international service for urgent, palletized shipments over 150 pounds. European infrastructure investments to meet growing demand for our services and to improve transit times across the region. Customers can now reach more than 80% of Europe's population within two business days using UPS Standard. Our air portfolio offers time specific, same day, next day, two day and three day delivery alternatives. Our ground network enables customers to ship using our day-definite guaranteed ground service. We deliver more ground packages in the U.S. than any other carrier, with average daily package volume of more than 17 million, most within one to three business days. UPS SurePost provides residential ground service for customers with non-urgent, lightweight residential shipments. UPS SurePost combines the consistency and reliability of the UPS ground network, with final delivery often provided by the U.S. Postal Service. During 2020, as a component of our strategic initiatives focused on SMBs and to increase speed and ease for our customers, we successfully completed our weekend expansion, We offer same-day pickup of air and ground packages seven days a week. Our global network offers approximately 150,000 entry points where customers can tender packages to We offer a portfolio of returns services in more than 140 countries. These services are driven by the continued growth of online and mobile shopping that has increased our Our global air operations are based in Louisville, Kentucky, and are supported by air hubs across the United States and internationally. We operate international air hubs in We are a leader in time-definite, guaranteed small package delivery services in the United States. We offer a full spectrum of U.S. domestic guaranteed air and ground package International Package consists of our small package operations in Europe, Asia Pacific, Canada, Latin America and ISMEA. We offer a wide selection of guaranteed day- and For international package shipments that do not require express services, UPS Worldwide Expedited offers a reliable, deferred, guaranteed day-definite service option. For cross- Europe is our largest region outside of the U.S. and, in 2020, accounted for approximately half of our international package segment revenue. We continue to make major We serve more than 40 Asia Pacific countries and territories through more than two dozen alliances with local delivery companies that supplement our owned operations. has improved time-in-transit to key destinations in ISMEA for shippers throughout the U.S., Canada and Latin America. In India, we are investing in our network to improve transit times and extend pickup times, allowing businesses to gain faster access to markets in Europe and the United States. Supply Chain & Freight creates demand for a global service offering that incorporates transportation, distribution and international trade and brokerage services, with complementary financial and information services. Many companies see value in outsourcing non-core logistics activity. With increased competition and growth opportunities in new markets, businesses require flexible and responsive supply chains to support their strategies. We meet this demand by offering a broad array of supply chain services in more than 200 countries and territories. Forwarding freight services. Additionally, as one of the world s leading non-vessel operating common carriers, we provide ocean freight full-container load, less-than-container load and multimodal transportation services between most major ports around the world. Truckload Brokerage network, creates customized capacity solutions for all markets and customers. Coyote customers can also access UPS services such as air freight, customs brokerage and global freight forwarding. Logistics & Distribution countries to ensure products and parts are in the right place at the right time. We operate both multi-client and dedicated facilities across our network, many of which are strategically located near UPS air and ground transportation hubs to support rapid delivery to consumer and business markets. exported goods. We also have multiple FTZ-compliant facilities in Europe and Asia. industry. With a strategic focus on serving the unique, priority-handling needs of healthcare and life sciences customers, we have increased our cold-chain logistics capabilities to support the rapid deployment of COVID-19 vaccines both in the U.S. and internationally. During 2020, we added nearly 2.6 million square feet of capacity and now have approximately ten million square feet of healthcare-licensed warehousing in 82 facilities across fifteen countries. These facilities are climate controlled and offer validated coolers and freezers for products requiring strict temperature-controlled environments. UPS Freight UPS Freight also provides dedicated contract carriage truckload services. User-friendly shipping, visibility and billing technology offerings, including UPS WorldShip, Quantum View and UPS Billing Center, allow customers to create electronic bills of lading, monitor shipment progress and reconcile shipping charges. drive the greatest value for our shareholders. The transaction, which is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals, is expected to close during the second quarter of 2021. For additional information, see note 4 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. International high growth markets are one of our strategic imperatives. Since 2017, we have doubled our air capacity to Dubai. The introduction of a direct flight from the U.S. Supply Chain & Freight consists of our forwarding, truckload brokerage, logistics and distribution, UPS Freight, UPS Capital and other businesses. Supply chain complexity We are one of the largest U.S. domestic air freight carriers and among the top air freight forwarders globally. We offer a portfolio of guaranteed and non-guaranteed global air We provide truckload brokerage services in the U.S. and Europe through our Coyote-branded subsidiaries. Access to the UPS fleet, combined with a broad third-party carrier Our Logistics & Distribution business provides value-added fulfillment and transportation management services. We leverage a network of more than 1,000 facilities in over 100 Each of our U.S. distribution centers can be designated as a Foreign Trade Zone ("FTZ"), allowing businesses the opportunity to defer or reduce tariff burdens on imported and Healthcare logistics is one of our strategic growth initiatives. UPS Healthcare offers world-class technology, deep expertise and the most sophisticated suite of services in the UPS Freight offers regional, inter-regional and long-haul less-than-truckload ("LTL") services in all 50 states, Canada, Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Mexico. On January 24, 2021, we entered into a definitive agreement to divest our UPS Freight business. This will allow us to be even more focused on the core parts of our business that Customs Brokerage worldwide. In addition to customs clearance services, we provide product classification, trade management, duty drawback and consulting services. UPS Capital countries and territories. UPS Capital also offers insured transportation of high value goods. Human Capital which 458,000 are in the U.S. and 85,000 are located internationally. Our global workforce includes approximately 93,000 management employees (43% of whom are part-time) and 450,000 hourly employees (51% of whom are part-time). More than three-quarters of our U.S. employees are represented by unions, primarily those employees handling or transporting packages. In addition, approximately 3,000 of our pilots are represented by the Independent Pilots Association. employee recruitment and retention, we continue to review the competitiveness of our employee value proposition, including benefits and pay, the range of continuous training, talent development and promotional opportunities. For additional information on the importance of our human capital efforts, see "Risk Factors - Business and Operating Risks - Failure to attract or retain qualified employees could materially adversely affect us". Oversight and management gender, age, ethnicity, skills and other factors, and creating inclusive environments, we can improve organizational effectiveness, cultivate innovation and drive growth. discussion around human capital transformation efforts, technology initiatives impacting the workforce, health and safety matters, employee survey results related to culture and other matters, hiring and retention, employee demographics, labor relations and contract negotiations, compensation and benefits, succession planning and employee training initiatives. We believe the Board s oversight of these matters helps identify and mitigate exposure to labor and human capital management risks, and is part of the broader framework that guides how we attract, retain and develop a workforce that aligns with our values and strategies. Chief Executive Officer. The creation of this role is a significant step forward for UPS to further develop a more inclusive and equitable environment. Transformation transforming the UPS employee experience is foundational to our success. This requires a thoughtful balance between the culture we have cultivated over the years and new approaches to lead our business into the future. management employees on professionalism and performance as well as unconscious bias and diversity and inclusion to ensure our actions match our values. responsibly and contributing to society. This report is available at www.sustainability.ups.com. We are among the world s largest customs brokers, as measured by both the number of shipments processed annually and by the number of dedicated brokerage employees UPS Capital offers integrated supply chain insurance solutions for in-transit goods to both small and large businesses. Supply chain protection services are available in 19 Our success is dependent upon our people, working together with a common purpose. We have approximately 543,000 employees (excluding temporary seasonal employees), of We believe that UPS employees are among the most motivated, highest-performing people in the industry and provide us with a meaningful competitive advantage. To assist with We believe in creating an inclusive and equitable environment that represents a broad spectrum of backgrounds, cultures and stakeholders. By leveraging diversity with respect to Our Board of Directors and Board committees provide oversight on human capital matters through a variety of methods and processes. These include regular updates and In addition, in 2020 we created the role of Chief Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Officer, a new position on the company's Executive Leadership Team, reporting directly to our As we expand and enter new markets, and seek to capture new opportunities and pursue growth, we need employees to grow and innovate along with us. We believe that We are investing in capabilities that will transform our business, including investments in employee opportunities to support growth. We are providing further training for 40,000 Additional information on our human capital efforts is contained in our annual sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting Collective bargaining States. We participate in works councils and associations outside the U.S., which allows us to respond to emerging regional issues. This work helps our operations to build and maintain productive relationships with our employees. For additional information regarding employees employed under collective bargaining agreements, see note 7 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. Employee health and safety are increasingly focused on the variables associated with residential delivery environments, which have become more common with the growth in e-commerce. We monitor our performance in this area through various measurable targets including lost time injury frequency and the number of recorded auto accidents. delivery customers daily. For the year ended December 31, 2020, one customer, Amazon.com, Inc. and its affiliates, represented approximately 13.3% of our consolidated revenues, substantially all of which was within our U.S. Domestic Package segment. For additional information on our customers, see Risk Factors - Business and Operating Risks - Changes in our relationships with any of our significant customers, including the loss or reduction in business from one or more of them, could have a material adverse effect on us and note 14 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. Competition services. We believe our strategy, network and competitive strengths position us well to compete in the marketplace. For additional information on our competitive environment, see "Risk Factors - Business and Operating Risks - Our industry is rapidly evolving. We expect to continue to face significant competition, which could materially adversely affect us". Government Regulation and in the other countries in which we operate may result in materially increased costs, or we could be subject to substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations. Air Operations Security Administration ( TSA ), have primary regulatory authority over our air transportation services. investing in safety training and audits promoting wellness practices which mitigate risk and offering benefits designed to keep employees safe in the workplace and beyond. Building and maintaining long-term customer relationships is a competitive strength of UPS. In 2020, we served 1.7 million shipping customers and more than 11.8 million We offer a broad array of transportation and logistics services and compete with many local, regional, national and international logistics providers as well as national postal We are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. Continued compliance with increasingly stringent laws, regulations and policies in the U.S. We bargain in good faith with the unions that represent our employees. We frequently engage union leaders at the national level and at local chapters throughout the United We are committed to industry-leading employee health, safety and wellness programs across our growing workforce. We develop a culture of health and safety by: Our local health and safety committees coach employees on UPS s safety processes and are able to share best practices across work groups. Our safety methods and procedures The U.S. Department of Transportation ( DOT ), the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, through the Transportation interlocking relations and cooperative agreements. The DOT also regulates international routes, fares, rates and practices and is authorized to investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of U.S. air carriers abroad. International operating rights for U.S. airlines are usually subject to bilateral agreements between the U.S. and foreign governments or, in the absence of such agreements, by principles of reciprocity. We are also subject to current and potential aviation regulations imposed by governments in other countries in which we operate, including registration and license requirements and security regulations. We have international route operating rights granted by the DOT and we may apply for additional authorities when those operating rights are available and are required for the efficient operation of our international network. The efficiency and flexibility of our international air transportation network is subject to DOT and foreign government regulations and operating restrictions. keeping standards and maintenance activities and personnel. In addition, we are subject to non-U.S. government regulation of aviation rights involving non-U.S. jurisdictions and non- U.S. customs regulation. cost of repairs pursuant to these programs may fluctuate according to aircraft condition, age and the enactment of additional FAA regulatory requirements. cargo transportation must comply with TSA regulations. U.S. Department of Defense ( DOD ) to requisition specified UPS aircraft for military use during a national defense emergency. The DOD is required to compensate us for any use of aircraft under the CRAF program. In addition, participation in CRAF entitles us to bid for other U.S. Government opportunities including small package and air freight. Ground Operations transportation also falls under state jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of operations, safety and insurance. Our ground transportation of hazardous materials in the U.S. is subject to regulation by the DOT's Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration. We also must comply with safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the FMCSA, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours of service for drivers. Ground transportation of packages outside of the U.S. is subject to similar regulatory schemes in the countries in which we transport those packages. Rate Commission, an independent agency, to recommend postal rates. The Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act of 2006 amended the 1970 Act to give the re-named Postal Regulatory Commission revised oversight authority over many aspects of the U.S. Postal Service, including postal rates, product offerings and service standards. We sometimes participate in proceedings before the Postal Regulatory Commission in an attempt to secure fair postal rates for competitive services. regulation by the TSA in the U.S., and similar regulations issued by foreign governments in other countries. of client importers and exporters. Our activities in the U.S., including customs brokerage and freight forwarding, are subject to regulation by the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, the TSA, the U.S. Federal Maritime Commission and the DOT. Our international operations are subject to similar regulatory structures in their respective jurisdictions. attack or have a security breach, which could materially adversely affect us . Our ground transportation of packages in the U.S. is subject to regulation by the DOT and its agency, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (the FMCSA ). Ground The Postal Reorganization Act of 1970 created the U.S. Postal Service as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the federal government, and created the Postal Our ground operations are also subject to compliance with various cargo-security and transportation regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, including We are subject to the customs laws regarding the import and export of shipments in the countries in which we operate, including those related to the filing of documents on behalf For additional information, see Risk Factors Business and Operating Risks Increased security requirements impose substantial costs on us and we could be the target of an The DOT s authority primarily relates to economic aspects of air transportation, such as operations, authority, insurance requirements, pricing, non-competitive practices, The FAA s authority primarily relates to safety aspects of air transportation, including certification, aircraft operating procedures, transportation of hazardous materials, record UPS's aircraft maintenance programs and procedures, including aircraft inspection and repair at periodic intervals, are approved for all aircraft under FAA regulations. The future The TSA regulates various security aspects of air cargo transportation. Our airport and off-airport locations, as well as our personnel, facilities and procedures involved in air Our airline, along with a number of other U.S. domestic airlines, participates in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet ( CRAF ) program. Our participation in the CRAF program allows the Environmental not limited to: properly storing, handling and disposing of waste materials appropriately managing waste water and storm water monitoring and maintaining the integrity of underground storage tanks complying with laws regarding clean air, including those governing emissions protecting against and appropriately responding to spills and releases and communicating the presence of reportable quantities of hazardous materials to local responders. We maintain site- and activity-specific environmental compliance and pollution prevention programs to address our environmental responsibilities and remain compliant. In addition, we maintain numerous programs which seek to minimize waste and prevent pollution within our operations. aircraft fleet is in compliance with current noise standards of the federal aviation regulations. Our international operations are also subject to noise regulations in certain other countries in which we operate. Communications and Data Protection 1934, as amended. In addition, the Federal Communications Commission regulates and licenses our activities pertaining to satellite communications. There has recently been increased regulatory and enforcement focus on data protection in the U.S. (at both the state and federal level) and in other countries. affect us . Where You Can Find More Information with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge through our investor relations website at www.investors.ups.com under the heading "Financials - SEC Filings" as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish the reports to the SEC. We have a written Code of Business Conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive and financial officers. It is available under the heading "ESG - Governance Documents" on our investor relations website. In the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers from, the provisions of the Code of Business Conduct that the SEC requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver in that section of our investor relations website. Corporate Governance Committee are also available under the heading "ESG- Governance Documents" on our investor relations website. into this or any other report we file with the SEC. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations across all of our operations. These laws and regulations cover a variety of processes, including, but Pursuant to the Federal Aviation Act, the FAA, with the assistance of the Environmental Protection Agency is authorized to establish standards governing aircraft noise. Our For additional information, see Risk Factors Regulatory and Legal Risks Increasingly stringent regulations related to climate change could materially increase our operating Because of our extensive use of radio and other communication facilities in our aircraft and ground transportation operations, we are subject to the Federal Communications Act of For additional information, see Risk Factors Business and Operating Risks A significant data breach or information technology system disruption could materially adversely For additional information on governmental regulations and their potential impact on us generally, see Risk Factors Regulatory and Legal Risks . We maintain a website at www.ups.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed Our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Executive Committee, Risk Committee and Nominating and Our sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting responsibly and contributing to society, is available at www.sustainability.ups.com. We provide the addresses to our internet sites solely for information. We do not intend for any addresses to be active links or to otherwise incorporate the contents of any website Item 1A. Risk Factors consider the following risk factors, which may have materially affected or could materially affect us, including impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations, stock price or credit rating, as well as our reputation. You should read these risk factors in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Item 8. These risks are not the only ones we face. We could also be affected by other events, factors or uncertainties that are unknown to us, or that we do not currently consider to be material risks. Business and Operating Risks The outbreak and spread of the novel strain of coronavirus COVID-19 has had a significant impact on us, as well as on the operations, financial performance and liquidity of many of our customers. We are unable to predict the full extent to which the coronavirus will continue to adversely impact us. of goods and services), weakened economic conditions, supply chain disruptions, significant economic uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets, both in the United States and abroad. The pandemic has significantly impacted, and is expected to continue to significantly impact us, and has had, and is expected to continue to have, a material adverse impact on the operations, financial performance and liquidity of many of our customers. future impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity remains uncertain and difficult to predict. The impact of the pandemic will depend on evolving factors, many of which are not within our control, and to which we may not be able to effectively respond. These risks include, but are not limited to: a significant reduction in revenue due to curtailment of business from our customers a significant increase in our expenses or a reduction in our operating margins due to long-term changes in the mix of our products and services effects from governmental, business and individuals actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to the pandemic (including restrictions on travel and transportation and workforce pressures) reductions in operating effectiveness due to employees working remotely unavailability of personnel the delay or cancellation of capital projects and related delays in, or loss of, expected benefits therefrom limited access to liquidity increased volatility and pricing in the capital and commercial paper markets further disruption of our global supply chains an impairment in the fair value of our assets an increase in our pension funding obligations and the effect of the pandemic on the credit-worthiness of our customers. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic, and the volatile regional and global economic conditions stemming from it, could also precipitate or aggravate risk factors that we identify herein or affect our operations and financial performance in a manner that is not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider material. The occurrence or continuation of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in general economic conditions, in the U.S. and internationally, may adversely affect us. economic environments in which we operate. The factors that result in general economic changes are beyond our control, and it may be difficult for us to adjust our business model to mitigate the impact of these factors. In particular, we are affected by levels of industrial production, consumer spending and retail activity and we could be materially affected by adverse developments in these aspects of the economy, including without limitation the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, there remains substantial economic uncertainty arising from the United Kingdom s departure from the European Union. The U.K. and the E.U. continue to negotiate their future relationship, which could take several years to finalize. The outcome of these negotiations could result in, among other things, transportation delays, increased costs, fewer goods being transported globally, additional volatility in currency exchange rates and further regulations relating to, among other things, trade, aviation and the transport of goods. Changes in general economic conditions, or our inability to accurately forecast these changes, could materially adversely affect us. The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, a substantial curtailment of business activities (including the decrease in demand for a broad variety Because the ongoing severity, magnitude and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic consequences are uncertain, rapidly changing and difficult to predict, the We conduct operations in over 220 countries and territories. Our operations are subject to cyclicality affecting national and international economies in general, as well as the local Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. In connection with any investment decision, you should carefully Our industry is rapidly evolving. We expect to continue to face significant competition, which could materially adversely affect us. on a local, regional, national and international basis. Current competitors include the postal services of the U.S. and other nations, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers, large transportation and e-commerce companies that are making significant investments in their capabilities, and start ups and other companies that combine technologies with crowdsourcing to focus on local market needs, some of whom are currently our customers. Competition may also come from other sources in the future, including as new technologies are developed. Competitors have cost and organizational structures that differ from ours and from time to time may offer services or pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. Additionally, to sustain the level of services and value that we deliver to our customers, from time to time we may raise prices and our customers may not be willing to accept these higher prices. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to competitive pressures, we could be materially adversely affected. financial capacity and strengthen their competitive positions. Business combinations could also result in competitors providing a wider variety of services and products at competitive prices, which could materially adversely affect us. Changes in our relationships with any of our significant customers, including the loss or reduction in business from one or more of them, could have a material adverse effect on us. significant customers can account for a relatively significant portion of our revenues in a particular quarter or year. Customer impact on our revenue is based on factors such as: product launches e-commerce or other industry trends, including those related to the fourth quarter holiday season business combinations and the overall growth of a customer's underlying business as well as any disruptions to their businesses. These customers could choose to divert all or a portion of their business with us to one of our competitors, demand pricing concessions for our services, require us to provide enhanced services that increase our costs, or develop their own shipping and distribution capabilities. In addition, certain of our significant customer contracts include termination rights of either party upon the occurrence of certain events or without cause upon advance notice to the other party. If all or a portion of our business relationships with one or more significant customers were to terminate, significantly change or be canceled, this could materially adversely affect us. Failure to attract or retain qualified employees could materially adversely affect us. a large number of part-time and seasonal workers. We must be able to attract, engage, develop and retain a large and diverse global workforce, while controlling related labor costs and maintaining an environment that supports our core values. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous factors, including turnover, training costs, regulatory changes, market pressures, unemployment levels and healthcare and other benefit costs. If we are unable to hire, properly train and retain qualified employees, we could experience higher employment costs, reduced sales, further increased workers' compensation and automobile liability claims, regulatory noncompliance, losses of customers and diminution of our brand value or company culture, which could materially adversely affect us. Our inability to continue to retain experienced and motivated employees may also materially adversely affect us. Increased security requirements impose substantial costs on us and we could be the target of an attack or have a security breach, which could materially adversely affect us. increased operating costs for businesses in the transportation industry. These requirements may change periodically as a result of regulatory and legislative requirements and in response to evolving threats. We cannot determine the effect that any new requirements will have on our cost structure or our operating results, and new rules or other future security requirements may increase our operating costs and reduce operating efficiencies. Regardless of our compliance with security requirements or the steps we take to secure our facilities or fleet, we could also be the target of an attack or security breaches could occur, which could materially adversely affect us. Our industry is rapidly evolving, including in response to demand for faster deliveries and increased visibility into shipments. We expect to continue to face significant competition Continued transportation industry consolidation may further increase competition. As a result of consolidation, competitors may increase their market share, improve their For the year ended December 31, 2020, business from one customer, Amazon.com, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for 13.3% of our consolidated revenues. Some of our other We maintain a large workforce, and necessarily depend on the skills and continued service of our employees, including our experienced management team. We also regularly hire In addition, our strategic initiatives, including transformation, have and may in the future lead to the creation of fewer, more impactful jobs as we strive to lower our cost to serve. As a result of concerns about global terrorism and homeland security, governments around the world have adopted or may adopt stricter security requirements that will result in Strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could materially adversely affect us. of Teamsters ("the Teamsters"). Our airline pilots, airline mechanics, ground mechanics and certain other employees are employed under other collective bargaining agreements. In addition, some of our international employees are employed under collective bargaining or similar agreements. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' needs. As a result, customers may reduce their business or stop doing business with us if they believe that such actions or threatened actions may adversely affect our ability to provide services. We may permanently lose customers if we are unable to provide uninterrupted service, and this could materially adversely affect us. The terms of future collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position and results of operations. Failure to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation could materially adversely affect us. actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other companies. Also, adverse publicity surrounding labor relations, environmental concerns, security matters, political activities and similar matters, or attempts to connect our company to such issues, either in the U.S. or other countries in which we operate, could negatively affect our overall reputation and use of our services by customers. Social media accelerates and amplifies the scope of negative publicity, and makes responding to negative claims more difficult. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have a material adverse effect on us, and could require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. A significant data breach or information technology system disruption could materially adversely affect us. wide variety of important business processes and activities throughout our operations. For example, we rely on information technology to receive package level information in advance of physical receipt of packages, to track items that move through our delivery systems, to efficiently plan deliveries, to execute billing processes, and to track and report financial and operational data. Our franchise locations and businesses we have acquired also are reliant on the use of information technology systems to manage their business processes and activities. proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of customers, employees and others. To conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders, and consequently we are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. The scope of the laws that may be applicable to us is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. For example, the E.U. has enacted the General Data Protection Regulation, which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of E.U. law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches. Other countries have also enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. These evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time. shutdowns due to programming errors, defects or other vulnerabilities, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, ransomware attacks, malware attacks, theft, misconduct by employees or other insiders, telecommunications failures, misuse, human errors or other catastrophic events. Hackers, foreign governments, cyber-terrorists and cyber- criminals, acting individually or in coordinated groups, may launch distributed denial of service attacks or other coordinated attacks that may cause service outages, gain inappropriate or block legitimate access to systems or information, or result in other interruptions in our business. In addition, the foregoing breaches in security could expose us, our customers and franchisees, or the individuals affected, to a risk of loss, disclosure or misuse of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personally identifiable information. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, may be difficult to detect and often are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate measures to prevent any of the events described above. Many of our U.S. employees are employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the International Brotherhood Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the UPS brand and our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. Service quality issues, We rely heavily on information technology networks and systems, including the internet and a number of internally-developed systems and applications, to manage or support a In addition, the provision of service to our customers and the operation of our networks and systems involve the collection, storage and transmission of significant amounts of Information technology systems (ours, as well as those of our franchisees, acquired businesses, and third-party service providers) are susceptible to damage, disruptions or franchisees and service providers such as cloud service providers and third-party delivery services. These third parties may have access to information we maintain about our company, operations, customers, employees and vendors, or operating systems that are critical to or can significantly impact our business operations. Like us, these third parties are subject to risks imposed by data breaches and information technology systems disruptions like those described above, and other events or actions that could damage, disrupt or close down their networks or systems. Security processes, protocols and standards that we have implemented and contractual provisions requiring security measures that we may have sought to impose on such third-parties may not be sufficient or effective at preventing such events. These events could result in unauthorized access to, or disruptions or denials of access to, misuse or disclosure of, information or systems that are important to our business, including proprietary information, sensitive or confidential data, and other information about our operations, customers, employees and suppliers, including personal information. could result in disruptions in our operations, the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to our brand and reputation, regulatory scrutiny, and litigation and potential liability for us. Among other consequences, our customers confidence in our ability to protect data and systems and to provide services consistent with their expectations could be impacted, further disrupting our operations. Similarly, an actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable U.S. or foreign data protection regulations or other data protection standards may expose us to litigation, fines, sanctions or other penalties. consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further data or system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly intense, complex and sophisticated global cyber threats. Despite our best efforts, we are not fully insulated from data breaches and system disruptions. Although to date we are unaware of a data breach or system disruption, including a cyber-attack, that has been material to us, we cannot provide any assurances that such events and impacts will not be material in the future, and our efforts to deter, identify, mitigate and or eliminate future breaches may require significant additional effort and expense and may not be successful. Severe weather or other natural or manmade disasters could materially adversely affect us. the past and may in the future disrupt our business and result in decreased revenues. Customers may reduce shipments, or our costs to operate our business may increase, either of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Any such event affecting one of our major facilities could result in a significant interruption in or disruption of our business. Economic, political, or social developments and other risks associated with international operations could materially adversely affect us. Emerging markets are typically more volatile than those in the developed world, and any broad-based downturn in these markets could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to many laws governing our international operations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and commercial customers, govern our environmental impact or labor matters, and restrict where we can do business, our shipments to certain countries and the information that we can provide to non-U.S. governments. Our failure to manage and anticipate these and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect us. Changes in markets and our business plans have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our assets, thereby reducing our net income. and may in the future result, in substantial impairments of our intangible, fixed or other assets. For example, in connection with our entry into a definitive agreement to divest our UPS Freight business, we recognized a 629 million after-tax impairment charge as of December 31, 2020. In addition, we have been and may be required in the future to recognize increased depreciation and amortization charges if we determine that the useful lives of our fixed assets or intangible assets are shorter than we originally estimated. Such changes have in the past, and may in the future, reduce our net income. We also depend on and interact with the information technology networks and systems of third-parties for many aspects of our business operations, including our customers, Any of these events that impact our information technology networks or systems, or those of acquired businesses, franchisees, customers, service providers or other third-parties, We have invested and continue to invest in technology security initiatives, information technology risk management and disaster recovery plans. The cost and operational Severe weather conditions or other natural or manmade disasters, including storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, epidemics, pandemics, conflicts, unrest, or terrorist attacks, have in We have significant international operations. As a result, we are continually exposed to changing economic, political and social developments that are beyond our control. Our regular review of the carrying value of our assets, changes in business strategy, government regulations, and economic or market conditions have resulted from time to time, Insurance and claims expense could materially affect us. including claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, aircraft and related liabilities, business interruption and workers' compensation. Self-insured workers' compensation, automobile and general liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. Our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. If the number or severity of claims for which we are retaining risk continues to increase, which has occurred in recent periods, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we lose our ability to self-insure these risks, our insurance cost could materially increase and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. Our inability to effectively integrate any acquired operations and realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or dispositions could materially adversely affect us. from these transactions will depend, in part, upon the successful integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying operations, capabilities or technologies and the management of the acquired operations. Accordingly, our financial results could be materially adversely affected by our failure to effectively integrate the acquired operations, unanticipated performance issues or transaction-related charges. Financial Risks We are exposed to the effects of changing fuel and energy prices, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and interruptions in supplies of these commodities. risks associated with variations in the market price for petroleum products, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. We mitigate our exposure to changing fuel prices through our indexed fuel surcharges and we utilize hedging transactions from time to time. If we are unable to maintain or increase our fuel surcharges, higher fuel costs could adversely impact our operating results. Even if we are able to offset changes in fuel costs with surcharges, high fuel surcharges may result in a shift from our higher-yielding products to lower-yielding products or an overall reduction in volume. There can also be no assurance that hedging transactions will be effective to protect us from changes in fuel prices. Moreover, we could experience a disruption in energy supplies as a result of war, weather-related events or natural disasters, actions by producers or other factors beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in exchange rates or interest rates may have a material adverse effect on us. affected by changes in the exchange rates for local currencies, in particular the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Canadian Dollar, Chinese Renminbi and Hong Kong Dollar. point change in interest rates affecting our debt is discussed in Part II, Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk section of this report. Additionally, changes in interest rates impact the valuation of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and the related benefit cost recognized in the statements of consolidated income. The impact of changes in interest rates on our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and costs is discussed further in Part I, "Item 7 - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" section of this report. our financial condition and results of operations however, changes in exchange rates and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged and may have a material adverse effect on us. We have a combination of both self-insurance and high-deductible insurance programs for the risks arising out of the services we provide and the nature of our global operations, As part of our business strategy, we may acquire businesses and form joint ventures or strategic alliances, or may dispose of operations. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits Changing fuel and energy costs have a significant impact on our operations. We require significant quantities of fuel for our aircraft and delivery vehicles and are exposed to the We conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our revenue derived from operations outside the United States. Our operations in international markets are We are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt and that portion of our long-term debt that carries floating interest rates. The impact of a 100-basis- We monitor and manage our exposures to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, and use derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of changes in these rates on The proposed phase out of the London Interbank Offer Rate ("LIBOR") could have a material adverse effect on us. regulates LIBOR, has announced that the FCA will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. However, the ICE Benchmark Administration, in its capacity as administrator of U.S. Dollar LIBOR, has announced that it intends to extend publication of certain U.S. Dollar LIBOR rates to June 2023. Notwithstanding this possible extension, a joint statement by key regulatory authorities calls on banks to cease entering into new contracts that use U.S. Dollar LIBOR as a reference rate after 2021. cost of capital. Any further changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR, which could have an adverse impact on extensions of credit held by us and could have a material adverse effect on us. We are required to make significant capital and other investments in our business, of which a significant portion is tied to projected volume levels. our capital investment requirements, we adjust other elements of our operations and cost structure in response to economic conditions. These investments support both our existing business and anticipated growth. Forecasting projected volume involves many factors which are subject to uncertainty, such as general economic trends, changes in governmental regulation and competition. If we do not accurately forecast our future capital investment needs, we could have excess capacity or insufficient capacity, either of which would negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Employee health and retiree health and pension benefit costs represent a significant expense to us further cost increases could materially adversely affect us. largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in healthcare costs in excess of the rate of inflation and historically low discount rates that we use to value our company-sponsored benefit plan obligations. Continually increasing healthcare costs, volatility in investment returns and discount rates, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate retiree health and pension benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations, and may require significant contributions to our benefit plans. Our national master agreement with the Teamsters includes provisions that are designed to mitigate certain healthcare expenses, but there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or that the failure or success of these efforts will not materially adversely affect us. overall collective bargaining process for wage and benefit levels, we have agreed to contribute certain amounts to the multiemployer benefit plans during the contract period. The multiemployer benefit plans set benefit levels and are responsible for benefit delivery to participants. Future contribution amounts to multiemployer benefit plans will be determined only through collective bargaining, and we have no additional legal or constructive obligation to increase contributions beyond the agreed-upon amounts. However, in future collective bargaining negotiations, we could agree to make significantly higher future contributions to improve the funded status of one or more of these plans. The funded status of these multiemployer plans is impacted by various factors, including investment performance, healthcare inflation, changes in demographics and changes in participant benefit levels. At this time, we are unable to determine the amount of additional future contributions, if any, or whether any material adverse effect on us could result from our participation in these plans. Central States Pension Fund (the "CSPF"). For additional information on our potential liabilities related to the CSPF, see note 6 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. We may have significant additional tax liabilities. of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Certain of our debt and other financial instruments have interest rates tied to LIBOR. The Chief Executive of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority ( FCA ), which At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect any discontinuance, modification or other reforms to LIBOR, or the establishment of alternative reference rates, may have on our We require significant capital investments in our business consisting of aircraft, vehicles, technology, facilities and sorting and other types of equipment. In addition to forecasting We participate in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans for employees covered under collective bargaining agreements. As part of the In addition to our on-going multiemployer pension plan obligations, we may have an obligation to pay significant coordinating benefits that were earned by UPS employees in the We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the course Our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and pension benefits are significant. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in some of these costs, disputes more difficult. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation in the jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. In addition, changes in U.S. federal and state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, other fundamental law changes currently being considered by many countries, and changes in taxing jurisdictions administrative interpretations, decisions, policies and positions may materially adversely impact our tax expense and cash flows. Regulatory and Legal Risks Increasingly complex and stringent laws, regulations and policies could materially increase our operating costs. regulations and policies, both in the U.S. and in other countries in which we operate. In addition, we are impacted by laws, regulations and policies that affect global trade, including tariff and trade policies, export requirements, taxes, monetary policies and other restrictions and charges. Recently, trade discussions between the U.S. and various of its trading partners have been fluid, and existing and future trade agreements are, and are expected to continue to be, subject to a number of uncertainties, including the imposition of new tariffs or adjustments and changes to the products covered by existing tariffs. The impact of new laws, regulations and policies or decisions or interpretations by authorities applying those laws and regulations, cannot be predicted. Compliance with any new laws, regulations or policies may increase our operating costs or require significant capital expenditures. Any failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or policies in the U.S. or in any of the other countries in which we operate could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which could adversely affect us. Increasingly stringent regulations related to climate change could materially increase our operating costs. such regulation, and any increased or additional regulation, or the associated costs is further complicated by the fact that various countries and regions are following different approaches to the regulation of climate change. decision, all of our flights operating within the E.U. are covered by the ETS requirements, and we are required annually to purchase emission allowances in an amount exceeding the number of free allowances allocated to us under the ETS. Similarly, in 2016, the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) passed a resolution adopting the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation ( CORSIA ), which is a global, market-based emissions offset program to encourage carbon-neutral growth beyond 2020. A pilot phase is scheduled to begin in 2021 in which countries may voluntarily participate, and full mandatory participation is scheduled to begin in 2027. ICAO continues to develop details regarding implementation, but compliance with CORSIA will increase our operating costs. support for enactment. Nevertheless, some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the future. Even in the absence of such legislation, the Environmental Protection Agency could determine to regulate GHG emissions, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, and this could impose substantial costs on us. uncertain. The extent to which other countries implement that accord could also have an adverse direct or indirect effect on us. and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our aircraft or vehicles prematurely. We cannot predict the impact any future regulation would have on our cost structure or our operating results. It is possible that such regulation could significantly increase our operating costs and that we may not be willing or able to pass such costs along to our customers. Moreover, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the GHGs emitted by companies in the airline and transportation industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services, especially our air services. We are subject to complex and stringent aviation, transportation, environmental, security, labor, employment, safety, privacy and data protection and other governmental laws, Regulation of greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions exposes our transportation and logistics businesses to potentially significant new taxes, fees and other costs. Compliance with For example, in 2009, the European Commission approved the extension to the airline industry of the E.U. Emissions Trading Scheme ( ETS ) for GHG emissions. Under this In the U.S., Congress in the past several years has considered various bills that would regulate GHG emissions, but these bills so far have not received sufficient Congressional In addition, the impact that the recent re-entry into the Paris climate accord may have on future U.S. policy regarding GHG emissions, on CORSIA and on other GHG regulation is Potential costs to us of increased regulation regarding GHG emissions in the U.S. or abroad, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, include an increase in the cost of the fuel We are regularly under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions. Economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax We may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. environmental liability and other matters. Any material litigation or a catastrophic accident or series of accidents could result in significant expenditures and have a material adverse effect on us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Information About Our Executive Officers The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, business practices, For information about our executive officers, see Part III, "Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance". Item 2. Properties Operating Facilities headquarters, located in Parsippany, New Jersey. Our primary information technology operations are consolidated in an owned facility in New Jersey and we own a backup facility in Georgia. for the pickup and delivery of packages, and capacity to sort and transfer packages. Our larger facilities also service our vehicles and equipment, and employ specialized mechanical equipment for the sorting and handling of packages. We own or lease approximately 800 facilities that support our international package operations, with approximately 23 million square feet of floor space. Germany, and in Asia we operate two major air hubs in China and one in Hong Kong. operate a logistics campus consisting of approximately 4 million square feet in Louisville, Kentucky. In addition, we own or lease approximately 200 UPS Freight service centers with approximately 6 million square feet of floor space which are classified as held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020. For additional information see note 4 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. We own our corporate headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia, our UPS Supply Chain Solutions headquarters, located in Alpharetta, Georgia and our information technology We own or lease over 1,000 package operating facilities in the U.S., with approximately 81 million square feet of floor space. These facilities have vehicles and drivers stationed Our aircraft are operated in a hub and spoke pattern in the U.S., with our principal air hub, Worldport, located in Louisville, Kentucky. Our major air hub in Europe is located in We own or lease more than 500 facilities, with approximately 40 million square feet of floor space, which support our freight forwarding and logistics operations. We own and operations are classified as held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020. powered aircraft main deck loaders and cargo tractors. We also have 58,000 containers used to transport cargo in our aircraft. Item 3. Legal Proceedings discussion of judicial proceedings and other matters arising from the conduct of our business activities. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Description Owned & Finance Leases Boeing 757-200 75 Boeing 767-300 69 3 Boeing 767-300BCF 4 Boeing 767-300BDSF 4 Airbus A300-600 52 Boeing MD-11 40 2 Boeing 747-400F 11 Boeing 747-400BCF 2 Boeing 747-8F 20 8 Other 311 Total 277 311 13 The following table shows information about our aircraft fleet as of December 31, 2020: We operate a global ground fleet of approximately 127,000 package cars, vans, tractors and motorcycles, of which approximately 5,700 tractors used in our UPS Freight Our ground support fleet consists of 38,000 pieces of equipment designed specifically to support our aircraft fleet, ranging from non-powered container dollies and racks to See note 6 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for a discussion of pension related matters and note 10 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for a Not applicable. Charters From Others On Order Under Option Operating Leases & Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities convertible into one share of our class B common stock. Our class B common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol UPS . including our net income, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects and other relevant factors. share repurchases totaled approximately 217 million. On April 28, 2020, we announced our intention to suspend share repurchases under our stock repurchase program. There were no repurchases of class A or class B common stock during the last nine months of 2020 and we do not currently anticipate any share repurchases in 2021. As of December 31, 2020, we had 2.1 billion available under our share repurchase authorization. Our class A common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange or traded in an organized over-the-counter market, but each share of our class A common stock is As of February 8, 2021, there were 159,333 and 19,412 shareowners of record of class A and class B common stock, respectively. Our practice has been to pay dividends on a quarterly basis. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on various factors, On February 10, 2021, our Board declared a dividend of 1.02 per share, which is payable on March 10, 2021 to shareowners of record on February 22, 2021. In May 2016, the Board of Directors approved a share repurchase authorization of 8.0 billion for shares of class A and class B common stock. In the first quarter of 2020, our For additional information on our share repurchase activities, see note 12 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. Shareowner Return Performance Graph reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that the Company specifically incorporates such information by reference into such filing. Transportation Average. The comparison of the total cumulative return on investment, which is the change in the stock price plus reinvested dividends for each of the quarterly periods, assumes that 100 was invested on December 31, 2015 in the Standard & Poor s 500 Index, the Dow Jones Transportation Average and our class B common stock. For information regarding our equity compensation plans, see Item 12 of this report. United Parcel Service, Inc. 100.00 122.71 131.47 111.12 139.45 207.36 Standard & Poor s 500 Index 100.00 111.95 136.38 130.40 172.92 204.72 Dow Jones Transportation Average 100.00 121.86 145.04 127.15 154.68 180.23 The following performance graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by The following graph shows a five-year comparison of cumulative total shareowners returns for our class B common stock, the Standard & Poor s 500 Index and the Dow Jones 12 31 2015 12 31 2016 12 31 2017 12 31 2018 12 31 2019 12 31 2020 Item 6. Selected Financial Data should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, including the Supplemental Information - Items Affecting Comparability section, and other financial data appearing elsewhere in this report. This table reflects the impact of the adoption of new accounting standards in 2018 and 2019. Refer to note 1 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. Years Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Selected Income Statement Data Revenue: Operating Expenses: Operating Profit: Other Income and (Expense): Income Before Income Taxes 1,844 5,652 6,019 7,137 5,121 Income Tax Expense 501 1,212 1,228 2,232 1,699 Net Income 1,343 4,440 4,791 4,905 3,422 Per Share Amounts: Weighted Average Shares Outstanding: As of December 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Selected Balance Sheet Data: Cash and marketable securities 6,316 5,741 5,035 4,069 4,567 Total assets 62,408 57,857 50,016 45,574 40,545 Long-term debt and finance leases 22,031 21,818 19,931 20,278 12,394 Shareowners equity 669 3,283 3,037 1,024 430 U.S. Domestic Package 53,499 46,493 43,593 40,761 38,284 International Package 15,945 14,220 14,442 13,342 12,346 Supply Chain & Freight 15,184 13,381 13,826 12,482 10,980 Total Revenue 84,628 74,094 71,861 66,585 61,610 Compensation and benefits 44,529 38,908 37,235 34,577 32,534 Other 32,415 27,388 27,602 24,479 21,388 Total Operating Expenses 76,944 66,296 64,837 59,056 53,922 U.S. Domestic Package 3,891 4,164 3,643 4,303 4,628 International Package 3,436 2,657 2,529 2,429 2,417 Supply Chain & Freight 357 977 852 797 643 Total Operating Profit 7,684 7,798 7,024 7,529 7,688 Investment income (expense) and other (5,139) (1,493) (400) 61 (2,186) Interest expense (701) (653) (605) (453) (381) Basic Earnings Per Share 1.55 5.14 5.53 5.63 3.88 Diluted Earnings Per Share 1.54 5.11 5.51 5.61 3.86 Dividends Declared Per Share 4.04 3.84 3.64 3.32 3.12 Basic 867 864 866 871 883 Diluted 871 869 870 875 887 The following table sets forth selected financial data for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 2020 (in millions, except per share amounts). This financial data Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations improve our financial performance, provide the best customer experience and benefit our shareowners. We focused on, among other things, enhancing the capabilities that we believe our customers value the most speed and ease of access to our services. We completed enhancements to our U.S. ground network to improve time-in-transit and continued to deploy our digital access program into e-commerce platforms. significantly impacted the mix of demand for our services. In our global small package business, business-to-business activity has declined, while we continue to experience a significant increase in the level of business-to-consumer shipping, which we partially attribute to the capability enhancements described above. While business-to-business activity began to recover in the latter part of 2020, we believe that the market shift towards e-commerce will persist, with a continuing high level of residential deliveries that may continue to increase demand, but also drive higher operating costs. The pandemic also resulted in a reduction in global air cargo capacity. This caused market rates in the industry to increase and we experienced increased demand for our services. drive the greatest value for our shareholders. The transaction, which is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals, is expected to close during the second quarter of 2021. We expect this divestiture to result in an improvement to our operating margin and return on invested capital. of the anticipated economic recovery, and the resulting impacts on our business results or liquidity. For additional information on these risks and uncertainties, see Part I, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this report. Year Ended December 31, Change 2020 2019 % Revenue (in millions) 84,628 74,094 10,534 14.2 % Operating Expenses (in millions) 76,944 66,296 10,648 16.1 % Operating Profit (in millions) 7,684 7,798 (114) (1.5)% Operating Margin 9.1 % 10.5 % Net Income (in millions) 1,343 4,440 (3,097) (69.8)% Basic Earnings Per Share 1.55 5.14 (3.59) (69.8)% Diluted Earnings Per Share 1.54 5.11 (3.57) (69.9)% Operating Days 255 253 Average Daily Package Volume (in thousands) 24,676 21,880 12.8 % Average Revenue Per Piece 10.94 10.87 0.07 0.6 % Revenue increased in all segments. Average daily package volume increased due to increases in business-to-consumer shipping. Operating expenses increased due to volume growth. As described above, during 2020 we began implementing our Customer First, People Led, Innovation Driven strategy, as we seek to transform nearly every aspect of our business, Beginning in the first quarter of 2020, unexpected business shutdowns and government restrictions implemented in many countries in response to the COVID-19 pandemic have On January 24, 2021, we entered into a definitive agreement to divest our UPS Freight business. This will allow us to be even more focused on the core parts of our business that We believe that we are well positioned for long-term growth, however we cannot reasonably estimate the duration or severity of the COVID-19 pandemic or the timing and extent Highlights of our results for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, which are discussed in more detail in the sections that follow, include: headcount, delivery stops per day, average daily miles driven and average daily union labor hours, all of which increased expense and compressed operating margins as described below. Operating expenses also increased as a result of the investments we made to improve our ground network. Residential delivery volume growth drove an increase in third-party pickup and delivery expense. demand from Asia and the implementation of capacity surcharges as COVID-19 led to reduced capacity in the air cargo market. Mail services benefited from the increase in e- commerce activity and favorable changes in shipment characteristics. We also experienced growth in demand for our healthcare logistics and distribution solutions, partly driven by the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. December 31, 2019 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 20, 2020. Operating profit and operating margin were relatively flat, and included goodwill and other asset impairment charges of 686 million related to the anticipated divestiture of UPS Freight. We reported net income of 1.3 billion and diluted earnings per share of 1.54. Adjusted diluted earnings per share was 8.23 after adjusting for the after-tax impacts of: In the U.S. Domestic Package segment, volume and revenue growth was highest in our residential ground products. The increase in residential delivery volume drove increases in The International Package segment experienced volume and revenue growth, driven by strong outbound demand from Asia as well as growth from e-commerce within Europe. In the Supply Chain & Freight segment, growth was primarily driven by our Forwarding and mail services businesses. The Forwarding business benefited from strong outbound 2019 compared to 2018 See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended goodwill and other asset impairment charges of 629 million or 0.72 per share transformation strategy costs of 265 million or 0.31 per share and pension mark-to-market losses recognized outside of a 10% corridor of 4.9 billion or 5.66 per share. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Supplemental Information - Items Affecting Comparability financial measures including "adjusted" compensation and benefits, operating expenses, operating profit, operating margin, other income and (expense), income before income taxes, income tax expense, effective tax rate, net income and earnings per share. Adjusted financial measures may exclude the impact of period over period exchange rate changes and hedging activities, amounts related to mark-to-market gains or losses, restructuring costs, including transformation strategy costs, and costs related to certain legal contingencies and expenses, as described below. We believe that these adjusted financial measures provide additional meaningful information to assist users of our financial statements in understanding our financial results and cash flows and assessing our ongoing performance. We believe these adjusted financial measures are important indicators of our recurring results of operations because they exclude items that may not be indicative of, or are unrelated to, our underlying operations, and may provide a useful baseline for analyzing trends in our underlying businesses. Additionally, these adjusted financial measures are used internally by management for business unit operating performance analysis, business unit resource allocation and in connection with incentive compensation award determination. measures do not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Therefore, our adjusted financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. income tax expense and effective tax rate in the discussion that follows. The income tax benefit from restructuring and other costs, legal contingencies and expenses and mark-to-market charges are calculated by multiplying the statutory tax rates applicable in each tax jurisdiction, including the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various U.S. state and non-U.S. jurisdictions, by the tax-deductible adjustments. The blended average of the effective tax rates in 2020 and 2019 was 22.5% and 23.2%, respectively. Year Ended December 31, Non-GAAP Adjustments 2020 2019 Operating Expenses: Total Adjustments to Operating Expenses 1,034 352 Other Income and (Expense): Total Adjustments to Other Income and (Expense) 6,484 2,387 Total Adjustments to Income Before Income Taxes 7,518 2,739 Total Adjustments to Income Tax Expense (1,695) (636) Total Adjustments to Net Income 5,823 2,103 Transformation Strategy Costs 348 255 Goodwill and Other Asset Impairment Charges 686 Legal Contingencies and Expenses 97 Defined Benefit Plans Mark-to-Market Charges 6,484 2,387 Income Tax Benefit from Defined Benefit Plans Mark-to-Market Charges (1,555) (571) Income Tax Benefit from Transformation Strategy Costs (83) (59) Income Tax Benefit from Goodwill and Other Asset Impairment Charges (57) Income Tax Benefit from Legal Contingencies and Expenses (6) We supplement the reporting of our financial information determined under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") with certain non-GAAP Adjusted financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as an alternative for, our reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our adjusted financial Year over year comparisons of our financial results are affected by the following (in millions): These items have been excluded from comparisons of "adjusted" compensation and benefits, operating expenses, operating profit, operating margin, other income and (expense), MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Impact of Changes in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates and Hedging Activities exchange rate changes and hedging activities. the current period average exchange rates to derive current period local currency revenue, revenue per piece and operating profit. The derived amounts are then multiplied by the average foreign currency exchange rates used to translate the comparable results for each month in the prior year period (including the period over period impact of foreign currency hedging activities). The difference between the current period reported U.S. dollar revenue, revenue per piece and operating profit and the derived current period U.S. dollar revenue, revenue per piece and operating profit is the period over period impact of currency fluctuations. Restructuring and Other Charges exclude the impact of charges related to restructuring activities, including transformation strategy costs and asset impairments. For more information regarding transformation strategy costs, see note 18 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. For more information regarding asset impairments, see note 4 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. Costs Related to Certain Legal Contingencies and Expenses exclude the impact of costs related to certain legal contingencies and expenses. Defined Benefit Plans Mark-to-Market Charges immediately as part of other pension income (expense). We supplement the presentation of our income before income taxes, net income and earnings per share with non-GAAP measures that exclude the impact of gains and losses recognized in excess of the 10% corridor and the related income tax effects. We believe excluding these mark-to-market impacts provides important supplemental information by removing the volatility associated with short-term changes in market interest rates, equity values and similar factors. discount rate used to determine net periodic benefit cost (3.55% in 2020 and 4.45% in 2019). The unadjusted net periodic benefit cost reflects the actual return on plan assets (12.54% in 2020 and 17.57% in 2019) and the discount rate used to measure the projected benefit obligation at the December 31st measurement date (2.87% in 2020 and 3.55% in 2019). in "Other Income and (Expense)" of 6.5 and 2.4 billion for 2020 and 2019, respectively. In 2019, we refined the bond matching approach used to determine the discount rate for our U.S. pension and postretirement plans by implementing advances in technology and modeling techniques discussed in note 6 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. We supplement the reporting of our revenue, revenue per piece and operating profit with non-GAAP measures that exclude the period over period impact of foreign currency Currency-neutral revenue, revenue per piece and operating profit are calculated by dividing current period reported U.S. dollar revenue, revenue per piece and operating profit by We supplement the presentation of our operating profit, operating margin, income before income taxes, net income and earnings per share with similar non-GAAP measures that We supplement the presentation of our operating profit, operating margin, income before income taxes, net income and earnings per share with similar non-GAAP measures that We recognize changes in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains and losses in excess of a 10% corridor for our pension and postretirement defined benefit plans This adjusted net periodic benefit cost ( 641 million in 2020 and 754 million in 2019) utilizes the expected return on plan assets (7.70% in 2020 and 7.68% in 2019) and the We recognized pre-tax mark-to-market losses outside of a 10% corridor related to the remeasurement of our pension and postretirement defined benefit plans' assets and liabilities MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS our net periodic benefit cost, for each year: 2020 - 6.5 billion pre-tax mark-to-market loss: 2019 - 2.4 billion pre-tax mark-to-market loss: Components of mark-to-market gain (loss) (in millions): 2020 2019 Discount rates (6,540) (5,670) Return on assets 2,390 3,850 Demographic and other assumption changes (381) (24) Coordinating benefits attributable to the Central States Pension Fund (1,953) (543) Total mark-to-market gain (loss) (6,484) (2,387) Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost: 2020 2019 Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.70 % 7.68 % Actual rate of return on plan assets 12.54 % 17.57 % Discount rate used for net periodic benefit cost 3.55 % 4.45 % Discount rate at measurement date 2.87 % 3.55 % The table below shows the amounts associated with each component of the pre-tax mark-to-market loss, as well as the weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine The pre-tax mark-to-market losses for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were comprised of the following: Discount Rates ( 6.5 billion pre-tax loss): The weighted-average discount rate for our pension and postretirement medical plans decreased from 3.55% as of December 31, 2019 to 2.87% as of December 31, 2020, primarily due to a decline in U.S. treasury yields that was slightly offset by an increase in credit spreads on AA-rated corporate bonds. Return on Assets ( 2.4 billion pre-tax gain): In 2020, the actual rate of return on plan assets was higher than our expected rate of return, primarily due to strong global equity and U.S. bond market performance. Demographic and Other Assumption Changes ( 381 million pre-tax loss): This represents the difference between actual and estimated participant data and demographic factors, including items such as healthcare cost trends, compensation rate increases and rates of termination, retirement and mortality. Coordinating benefits attributable to the Central States Pension Fund ( 2.0 billion pre-tax loss): This represents our current best estimate of additional potential coordinating benefits that may be required to be paid related to the Central States Pension Fund. Discount Rates ( 5.7 billion pre-tax loss): The weighted-average discount rate for our pension and postretirement medical plans decreased from 4.45% as of December 31, 2018 to 3.55% as of December 31, 2019, primarily due to a decline in U.S. treasury yields and a decrease in credit spreads on AA-rated corporate bonds in 2019. This was partially offset by a refinement to the bond matching approach used to determine the discount rate for our U.S. pension and postretirement plans as described in note 6 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. Return on Assets ( 3.9 billion pre-tax gain): In 2019, the actual rate of return on plan assets was higher than our expected rate of return, primarily due to strong global equity and U.S. bond market performance. Demographic and Other Assumption Changes ( 24 million pre-tax loss): This represented the difference between actual and estimated participant data and demographic factors, including items such as healthcare cost trends, compensation rate increases and rates of termination, retirement and mortality. Coordinating benefits attributable to the Central States Pension Fund ( 543 million pre-tax loss): This represented our then-best estimate of additional potential coordinating benefits that may be required to be paid related to the Central States Pension Fund. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, Expense Allocations estimates that impact the amount of each expense category that is attributed to each segment. Changes in these estimates would directly impact the amount of expense allocated to each segment, and therefore the operating profit of each reporting segment. Our allocation methodologies are refined periodically, as necessary, to reflect changes in our businesses. Beginning in 2020, we updated our cost allocation methodology for the Ground with Freight Pricing ("GFP") product. The cost associated with GFP that is allocated from the U.S. Domestic Package segment to UPS Freight, within the Supply Chain & Freight segment, was adjusted to better reflect operational activities associated with this product. This change in methodology had only an immaterial impact on the expense allocated to UPS Freight for 2020. There were no significant changes in our expense allocation methodologies during 2019 or 2018. Certain operating expenses are allocated between our reporting segments using activity-based costing methods. These activity-based costing methods require us to make MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS U.S. Domestic Package Operations Year Ended December 31, Change 2020 2019 % Average Daily Package Volume (in thousands): Average Revenue Per Piece: Operating Days in Period 255 253 Revenue (in millions): Operating Expenses (in millions): Operating Profit (in millions) and Operating Margin: Revenue Change Drivers: Volume Next Day Air 1,987 1,889 5.2 % Deferred 1,783 1,622 9.9 % Ground 17,371 15,176 14.5 % Next Day Air 16.82 17.74 (0.92) (5.2)% Deferred 12.46 12.62 (0.16) (1.3)% Ground 8.87 8.55 0.32 3.7 % Next Day Air 8,522 8,479 43 0.5 % Deferred 5,665 5,180 485 9.4 % Ground 39,312 32,834 6,478 19.7 % Operating Expenses 49,608 42,329 7,279 17.2 % Adjusted Operating Expenses 49,371 42,124 7,247 17.2 % Operating Profit 3,891 4,164 (273) (6.6)% Adjusted Operating Profit 4,128 4,369 (241) (5.5)% Operating Margin 7.3 % 9.0 % Adjusted Operating Margin 7.7 % 9.4 % 2020 vs. 2019 14.0 % 1.8 % (0.7) % 15.1 % The change in total revenue was due to the following: Total Average Daily Package Volume 21,141 18,687 13.1 % Total Average Revenue Per Piece 9.92 9.83 0.09 0.9 % Total Revenue 53,499 46,493 7,006 15.1 % Transformation Strategy Costs (237) (108) (129) 119.4 % Legal Contingencies and Expenses (97) 97 N M MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Product Mix Surcharges Total Revenue 2020 compared to 2019 grew by approximately 33%, partly due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We also benefited from the impact of two additional operating days in 2020. Volume growth was led by our largest customer, Amazon, with growth stronger in the first half of the year. We also experienced growth from SMBs, as well as other large customers. Volume from SMBs grew 14.8% for the year, with growth accelerating in the second half of the year as a result of our investments to improve both time-in-transit and our digital access platform. 19 pandemic has accelerated a change in consumer behavior, speeding up what we believe will be a long-term market shift towards e-commerce. Business-to-business shipments decreased 10% for the year, primarily in our ground products, as many businesses experienced disruption and periods of closure due to the pandemic. Business-to-business activity began to recover in the latter part of 2020. slightly offset by declines in business-to-business shipments, primarily as a result of COVID-19, as well as continued declines in Second Day Letter volume due to ongoing shifts in customer preferences. activity. Ground commercial average daily volume declined, as many businesses temporarily closed or operated on a limited basis as a result of COVID-19. 2020 compared to 2019 declines in fuel surcharges. Rates for UPS ground and UPS air services increased an average net 4.9% in December 2019. SurePost rates increased effective October 2020. billable weight per piece. Revenue per piece for our Ground products increased primarily due to the shift in customer mix, with a significant increase in SMB volume, and higher residential surcharges. These benefits were partially offset by shifts in product mix, lower fuel surcharges and a decrease in average billable weight per piece. of kerosene-type jet fuel, while the ground fuel surcharge is based on the DOE s On-Highway Diesel Fuel Price. Based on published rates, the average fuel surcharge rates for domestic Air and Ground products were as follows: impact our overall revenue and yield. Additional components include the mix of products sold, the base price and any additional charges or discounts on these services. product mix. Year Ended December 31, % Point Change 2020 2019 2020 vs. 2019 Next Day Air Deferred 3.9 % 7.3 % (3.4) % Ground 6.6 % 7.2 % (0.6) % Rates and Product Mix Fuel Surcharges Volume increased across all products, with growth strongest in residential ground services. Volume growth was primarily driven by business-to-consumer e-commerce, which Business-to-consumer shipments represented approximately 64% of total average daily volume for the year compared to approximately 54% in 2019. We believe that the COVID- Average daily volume increased in both our Next Day Air and Deferred products, driven by increased residential demand as a result of the growth in e-commerce. This was Residential Ground and SurePost average daily volumes increased by 35% and 39%, respectively for the year, driven by changes in customer mix and the growth in e-commerce Overall revenue per piece increased due to changes in base rates, customer and product mix and residential surcharges that went into effect in October 2020, partially offset by Revenue per piece for our Next Day Air and Deferred products decreased primarily due to shifts in customer and product mix, lower fuel surcharges and a decrease in average We apply a fuel surcharge on our domestic air and ground services. The air fuel surcharge is based on the U.S. Department of Energy s ( DOE ) Gulf Coast spot price for a gallon While fluctuations in fuel surcharges can be significant from period to period, fuel surcharges represent one of the many individual components of our pricing structure that Total domestic fuel surcharge revenue decreased by 344 million for the year as a result of lower fuel surcharge indices, partially offset by increases in volume and shifts in MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2020 compared to 2019 and delivery costs (up 4.2 billion). In addition, the costs of operating our domestic integrated air and ground network increased 1.4 billion, costs of package sorting increased 927 million and other indirect operating costs increased 744 million. The overall increase in expense was driven by several factors: result of the factors described above. 2020 compared to 2019 impact of transformation strategy costs and legal contingencies and expenses, adjusted operating profit decreased 241 million, with operating margins decreasing 170 basis points to 7.7%. Operating Expenses Operating Profit and Margin Employee compensation and benefit costs increased 5.0 billion, largely resulting from: Higher third-party transportation costs were driven by increased SurePost volume and utilization of outside carriers as part of our improvements to time-in-transit within our U.S. ground network. We incurred lower fuel costs for the year, driven by lower prices for jet fuel, diesel and gasoline that were partially offset by increased usage as a result of volume growth and higher average daily miles driven. Operating expenses, and operating expenses excluding the impact of transformation strategy costs and legal contingencies and expenses, increased largely due to higher pickup Total cost per piece, and adjusted cost per piece excluding the year over year impact of transformation strategy costs and legal contingencies and expenses, increased 2.8% as a As a result of the factors described above, operating profit decreased 273 million, with operating margins decreasing 170 basis points to 7.3%. Excluding the year over year We also incurred higher employee benefit expenses due to additional headcount, contractual contribution rate increases to union multiemployer plans, and higher service costs for our company-sponsored pension and postretirement plans, primarily driven by lower discount rates used to measure the projected benefit obligations of these plans. Workers' compensation expense increased 114 million as a result of additional hours, medical and wage inflation and claims experience. residential volume growth that negatively impacted our delivery density, driving an increase in package delivery stops per day and in average daily miles driven. This drove an increase in average daily union labor hours of 14.1% union pay rate increases growth in the overall size of the workforce and acceleration of certain previously-issued incentive compensation awards for certain non-executive employees that resulted in additional expense of approximately 104 million. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS International Package Operations Year Ended December 31, Change 2020 2019 % Average Daily Package Volume (in thousands): Average Revenue Per Piece: Operating Days in Period 255 253 Revenue (in millions): Operating Expenses (in millions): Operating Profit (in millions) and Operating Margin: Currency Translation Benefit (Cost) (in millions) : Net of currency hedging amount represents the change compared to the prior year. Revenue Change Drivers: Volume Domestic 1,863 1,721 8.3 % Export 1,672 1,472 13.6 % Domestic 6.65 6.51 0.14 2.2 % Export 28.52 29.10 (0.58) (2.0)% Domestic 3,160 2,836 324 11.4 % Export 12,159 10,837 1,322 12.2 % Cargo & Other 626 547 79 14.4 % Operating Expenses 12,509 11,563 946 8.2 % Adjusted Operating Expenses 12,413 11,441 972 8.5 % Operating Profit 3,436 2,657 779 29.3 % Adjusted Operating Profit 3,532 2,779 753 27.1 % Operating Margin 21.5 % 18.7 % Adjusted Operating Margin 22.2 % 19.5 % Revenue 129 Operating Expenses (59) Operating Profit 70 2020 vs. 2019 11.6 % 1.5 % (1.9) % 0.9 % 12.1 % The change in total revenue was due to the following: Total Average Daily Package Volume 3,535 3,193 10.7 % Total Average Revenue Per Piece 16.99 16.93 0.06 0.4 % Total Revenue 15,945 14,220 1,725 12.1 % Transformation Strategy Costs (96) (122) 26 (21.3)% MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Product Mix Surcharges Currency Total Revenue 2020 compared to 2019 Business-to-business volume declined as the pandemic negatively impacted business operations globally, however we experienced a slight increase in volumes in the fourth quarter. by lower volumes in manufacturing and other sectors as COVID-19 caused a decline in commercial activity. volumes also growing significantly. Asia export volume growth was strongest on the Asia to U.S. trade lane. We experienced volume growth from both our large customers and SMBs, with SMB growth accelerating during the second half of the year. Our premium products saw volume growth, primarily driven by our Worldwide Express product, however growth was stronger in our non-premium products, such as World Wide Expedited and Transborder Standard due to shifts in customer preference for these products. from the increase in e-commerce. 2020 compared to 2019 the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented surcharges on certain lanes during the year. In December 2019, we implemented an average 4.9% net increase in base and accessorial rates for international shipments originating in the United States. by a decline in fuel surcharges. Excluding the impact of currency, revenue per piece decreased 0.5%. fuel surcharges. Excluding the impact of currency, revenue per piece increased 1.2%. currency, revenue per piece decreased 2.8%. the DOE's Gulf Coast spot price for a gallon of kerosene-type jet fuel. The fuel surcharges for ground services originating outside the U.S. are indexed to fuel prices in the region or country where the shipment originates. revenue and yield. Additional components include the mix of services sold, the base price and extra service charges and the pricing discounts offered. Total international fuel surcharge revenue decreased by 263 million in 2020 as a result of declines in fuel surcharge indices, partially offset by volume growth and changes in customer and product mix. Rates and Product Mix Fuel Surcharges While fluctuations can be significant from period to period, fuel surcharges represent one of the many individual components of our pricing structure that impact our overall Average daily volume increased for both domestic and export products. Business-to-consumer volume increased as the COVID-19 pandemic drove growth in e-commerce. Average daily volume growth was driven primarily by strong demand from the retail and technology sectors due to the increase in e-commerce activity. This was partially offset Export volume increased across most major trade lanes, driven by Europe and Asia. Europe export volume growth was highest on the Europe to U.S. trade lane, with intra-Europe Domestic volume increased in many of our markets, driven by growth in Canada and several European countries that was primarily due to residential volume growth resulting Rate changes for shipments originating outside the U.S. are made throughout the year and vary by geographic market. In response to market capacity constraints resulting from Total revenue per piece increased 0.4% as a result of changes in customer and product mix, the impact of demand surcharges and currency movements, which were largely offset Domestic revenue per piece increased 2.2% due to changes in customer and product mix, demand surcharges and currency movements that were partially offset by a decline in Export revenue per piece decreased 2.0% primarily due to a decline in fuel surcharges that were partially offset by changes in demand surcharges. Excluding the impact of We apply fuel surcharges on our international air and ground services. The fuel surcharge for international air services originating inside or outside the U.S. is largely indexed to MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2020 compared to 2019 million due to volume growth and an increase in residential deliveries that drove additional third-party pickup and delivery expense. fuel purchases utilize index-based pricing formulas plus or minus a fixed locational supplier differential. While many of the indices are aligned, each index may fluctuate at a different pace, driving variability in the prices paid for fuel. Because of this, our operating results may be affected should the market price of fuel suddenly change by a significant amount or change by amounts that do not result in an adjustment in our fuel surcharges, which can significantly affect our earnings either positively or negatively in the short-term. 2020 compared to 2019 impact of transformation strategy costs, adjusted operating profit increased for the year, with operating margin increasing 270 basis points to 22.2%. Operating Expenses Operating Profit and Margin Operating expenses, and operating expenses excluding the year over year impact of transformation strategy costs, increased in 2020. Pickup and delivery costs increased 540 The costs of operating our integrated international air and ground network increased 66 million, as increased block hours were partially offset by lower fuel prices. In addition to variability in usage and market prices, the manner in which we purchase fuel also influences the net impact of costs on our results. The majority of our contracts for The remaining increase in operating expenses in 2020 was due to package sorting and other indirect operating costs. As a result of the factors described above, operating profit increased 779 million, with operating margin increasing 280 basis points to 21.5%. Excluding the year over year MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Supply Chain & Freight Operations held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet. Upon classification as held for sale, we recognized a total impairment charge of 686 million within Other expenses in the statements of consolidated income. This was comprised of a goodwill impairment charge of 494 million and a valuation allowance to adjust the carrying value of the disposal group to fair value less cost to sell of 192 million. See note 4 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for additional information. Year Ended December 31, Change 2020 2019 % Freight LTL Statistics: Revenue (in millions): Operating Expenses (in millions): Operating Profit (in millions) and Operating Margins: Currency Translation Benefit (Cost) (in millions) : Amount represents the change compared to the prior year. Year Ended December 31, Change 2020 2019 % Transformation Strategy Costs (in millions): Revenue (in millions) 2,566 2,679 (113) (4.2)% Revenue Per Hundredweight 27.46 26.54 0.92 3.5 % Shipments (in thousands) 8,847 9,281 (4.7)% Shipments Per Day (in thousands) 34.8 36.7 (5.2)% Gross Weight Hauled (in millions of lbs) 9,343 10,096 (7.5)% Weight Per Shipment (in lbs) 1,056 1,088 (2.9)% Operating Days in Period 254 253 Forwarding 6,975 5,867 1,108 18.9 % Logistics 4,073 3,435 638 18.6 % Freight 3,149 3,265 (116) (3.6)% Other 987 814 173 21.3 % Operating Expenses 14,827 12,404 2,423 19.5 % Adjusted Operating Expenses 14,126 12,379 1,747 14.1 % Operating Profit 357 977 (620) (63.5)% Adjusted Operating Profit 1,058 1,002 56 5.6 % Operating Margin 2.4 % 7.3 % Adjusted Operating Margin 7.0 % 7.5 % Revenue (92) Operating Expenses 90 Operating Profit (2) Forwarding 8 12 (4) (33.3)% Logistics 6 13 (7) (53.8)% Freight 1 1 N M In January 2021, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our UPS Freight business. As of December 31, 2020, we classified certain assets and liabilities of UPS Freight as Total Revenue 15,184 13,381 1,803 13.5 % Transformation Strategy Costs (15) (25) 10 (40.0)% Goodwill and Other Asset Impairment Charges (686) (686) N M Total Transformation Strategy Costs 15 25 (10) (40.0)% MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS capacity and reduced demand in the first half of the year before market conditions began to improve. Conversely, our international air freight forwarding business benefited from demand for personal protective equipment out of Asia as well as increases in market rates caused by a sharp decline in passenger aircraft cargo capacity. Our Logistics business experienced increased demand from the healthcare and retail sectors, while activity in other sectors declined. demand in Asia. Ocean freight forwarding revenue increased due to Asia-export volume growth in the second half of the year. Revenue in our truckload brokerage business increased as volume levels recovered in the third and fourth quarters. Higher demand, together with capacity constraints in the truckload brokerage market, drove rate increases. implemented a peak surcharge in mail services in the fourth quarter which contributed to the overall increase in revenue. In the healthcare sector, we experienced growth in demand for our healthcare logistics and distribution solutions, partly driven by the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. resulted in an increase in revenue per hundredweight. Revenue from the Ground with Freight Pricing product grew as volume levels increased in the second half of the year. U.S. Postal Service. expense for international air freight. This increase was slightly offset by declines in tonnage and volume. In truckload brokerage, volume growth and higher market rates also contributed to the increase in purchased transportation expense. Other expenses decreased slightly as a result of ongoing cost management initiatives. well as volume growth in the healthcare sector. entering into an agreement to divest our UPS Freight business. We expect this divestiture to be completed in the second quarter of 2021. restructuring and other costs, adjusted operating profit increased 56 million. Operating margin decreased 490 basis points to 2.4%, while adjusted operating margin decreased 50 basis points to 7.0%. 2020 compared to 2019 Operating Expenses 2020 compared to 2019 Operating Profit and Margin 2020 compared to 2019 Total revenue in the Supply Chain & Freight segment increased 1.8 billion. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic varied within the segment. Our LTL business faced excess Overall Forwarding revenue increased for the year. In our international air freight business, revenue grew as a result of higher market rates, capacity surcharges and strong Within Logistics, revenue in our mail services business increased as a result of e-commerce growth, which also led to a favorable shift in product characteristics. In addition, we UPS Freight revenue declined due to volume and tonnage declines in our LTL business driven by overall market conditions, as well as volume optimization initiatives that Revenue from the other businesses within the segment increased, driven by growth within UPS Customer Solutions, as well as additional volume from service contracts with the Total operating expenses for the segment, and operating expenses excluding the year over year impact of restructuring and other costs, increased in 2020. Forwarding operating expenses increased 1.1 billion, largely due to higher market rates and additional charter flights out of Asia which increased purchased transportation Logistics operating expenses increased 582 million, driven by higher purchased transportation expense in mail services as a result of volume growth and carrier rate increases, as UPS Freight operating expenses increased 607 million, due primarily to an impairment charge of 686 million in respect of goodwill and assets held for sale as a result of As a result of the factors described above, total operating profit for the Supply Chain & Freight segment decreased 620 million. Excluding the year over year impact of MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated Operating Expenses Year Ended December 31, Change 2020 2019 % Operating Expenses (in millions): Compensation and benefits 44,529 38,908 5,621 14.4 % Repairs and maintenance 2,365 1,838 527 28.7 % Depreciation and amortization 2,698 2,360 338 14.3 % Purchased transportation 15,631 12,590 3,041 24.2 % Fuel 2,582 3,289 (707) (21.5)% Other occupancy 1,539 1,392 147 10.6 % Other expenses 7,600 5,919 1,681 28.4 % Total Operating Expenses 76,944 66,296 10,648 16.1 % Adjusted Total Operating Expenses 75,910 65,944 9,966 15.1 % Currency Translation Benefit - (in millions) 31 Amount represents the change in currency translation compared to the prior year. Year Ended December 31, Change 2020 2019 % Adjustments to Operating Expenses (in millions): Transformation strategy costs: Legal contingencies and expenses: Goodwill and other asset impairment charges: Transformation strategy costs (211) (166) (45) 27.1 % Total Other expenses 32,415 27,388 5,027 18.4 % Other Transformation strategy costs (137) (89) (48) 53.9 % Legal contingencies and expenses (97) 97 (100.0)% Goodwill and other asset impairment charges (686) (686) N M Compensation 34 21 13 61.9 % Benefits 177 145 32 22.1 % Depreciation and amortization 3 (3) (100.0)% Other occupancy 8 8 % Other expenses 129 78 51 65.4 % Other expenses 97 (97) (100.0)% Other expenses 686 686 N M Total Transformation strategy costs 348 255 93 36.5 % Total Adjustments to Operating Expenses 1,034 352 682 193.8 % Adjusted Compensation and benefits 44,318 38,742 5,576 14.4 % Adjusted Total Other expenses 31,592 27,202 4,390 16.1 % MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2020 compared to 2019 2020 compared to 2019 well as an increase in routine repairs to buildings and facilities and maintenance of our other transportation equipment. 2020 compared to 2019 and aircraft fleets and investments in internally developed software. 2020 compared to 2019 Compensation and Benefits Repairs and Maintenance Depreciation and Amortization Purchased Transportation U.S. Domestic labor costs increased as a result of residential volume growth, driving a 21.5% increase in package delivery stops per day. This drove additional headcount and an increase in average daily union hours of 14.1%. Contractual union wage increases also contributed to the increase in compensation for hourly employees. Management compensation expense increased due to salary increases, higher incentive compensation, including the acceleration of certain previously-issued incentive compensation awards, and growth in the overall size of the workforce. Health and welfare costs increased 558 million, driven by increased contributions to multiemployer plans resulting from growth in the workforce and contractually-mandated contribution rate increases. Pension and postretirement benefits increased 798 million. Higher service costs for company-sponsored plans were driven by a reduction in discount rates and an increase in participating employees. Contributions to multiemployer plans increased as a result of contractually-mandated contribution increases and an overall increase in the size of the workforce. Vacation, excused absence, payroll taxes and other expenses increased 587 million, primarily driven by salary increases and growth in the overall size of the workforce. Workers' compensation expense increased 517 million due to an increase in total hours worked, wage and medical cost inflation and unfavorable claims trends. U.S. Domestic Package expense increased 1.2 billion due to investments to improve time-in-transit in our U.S. ground network, an increase in SurePost volume that drove approximately 480 million of incremental third-party transportation expense and volume growth in our other products. Total compensation and benefits, and total compensation and benefits excluding the year over year impact of transformation strategy costs, increased in 2020. Total compensation costs, and total compensation costs excluding the year over year impact of transformation strategy costs, increased 3.1 billion or 13.3%, primarily as a result Benefits costs, and benefits costs excluding the year over year impact of transformation strategy costs, increased 2.5 billion as a result of: The increase in repairs and maintenance expense was driven by additional aircraft engine maintenance cost, primarily due to the replacement of parts on our A300-600 fleet, as Depreciation and amortization expense increased as a result of additional investments in facility automation and capacity expansion projects, increases in the size of our vehicle The increase in purchased transportation expense charged to us by third-party air, rail, ocean and truck carriers was primarily driven by: MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2020 compared to 2019 block hours and miles driven as a result of increased volume, as well as the impact of higher alternative fuel tax credits in 2019. 2020 compared to 2019 facilities coming into service, rent and property tax increases and ongoing facility maintenance. 2020 compared to 2019 impairment charges, increased as a result of: Other Occupancy Other Expenses Forwarding and Logistics expense increased 1.5 billion due to increased market rates in our international air freight business, as well as volume growth and rate increases in our mail services and truckload brokerage businesses. The rate increases in our international air freight and truckload brokerage businesses were primarily driven by market capacity constraints. International Package expense increased 521 million primarily due to volume increases in Asia and Europe that drove higher third-party pickup and delivery cost, as well as additional charter flights originating from Asia. Other operational expenses, including vehicle and equipment rentals, increased 385 million driven by volume growth. This included cleaning and other safety supplies related to COVID-19 amounting to 89 million. Professional fees increased 139 million, primarily related to information technology and other business support services. Self-insured automobile liability claims increased 125 million as a result of higher average daily miles driven in our U.S. Domestic business and unfavorable claims experience. Other increases included reserves for certain tax positions and contingencies, payment processing fees, recruitment costs, telecommunications costs, information technology expenses and allowances for credit losses and other bad debt expense. The decrease in fuel expense was driven by lower prices for jet fuel, diesel and gasoline. These decreases were partially offset by higher consumption due to increases in aircraft The increase in other occupancy expense, and other occupancy expense excluding the year over year impact of transformation strategy costs, was driven by additional operating Other expenses, and other expenses excluding the year over year impact of transformation strategy costs, legal contingencies and expenses and goodwill and other asset MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Other Income and (Expense) 2020 compared to 2019 these mark-to-market charges, adjusted investment and other income increased 451 million for the year, primarily due to an increase in other pension income, which includes expected investment returns on pension assets, net of interest cost on projected benefit obligations and prior service costs. Expected returns on plan assets increased as a result of a higher asset base due to positive asset returns in 2019 and discretionary contributions made in 2020. Pension interest cost decreased due to the impact of lower year end discount rates, partially offset by ongoing plan growth and an increase in the projected benefit obligation as a result of the 2019 year end measurement of our plans. Investment income decreased due to lower yields on higher average invested asset balances and impairments of certain non-current investments, partially offset by foreign currency gains. 2020 compared to 2019 rate debt and commercial paper balances. Year Ended December 31, Change 2020 2019 % Investment Income (Expense) and Other (5,139) (1,493) (3,646) N M Interest Expense (701) (653) (48) 7.4 % Total Other Income and (Expense) (5,840) (2,146) (3,694) 172.1 % Investment Income (Expense) and Other Interest Expense Defined Benefit Plans Mark-to-Market Charges 6,484 2,387 4,097 171.6 % Adjusted Investment Income (Expense) and Other 1,345 894 451 50.4 % Adjusted Other Income and (Expense) 644 241 403 167.2 % The following table sets forth investment income (expense) and other and interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in millions): Investment and other expense for the year increased 3.6 billion, which included a 4.1 billion increase in defined benefit plans mark-to-market charges. Excluding the impact of Interest expense increased as a result of higher average outstanding debt balances and lower capitalization of interest, partially offset by lower effective interest rates on floating MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Income Tax Expense Year Ended December 31, Change 2020 2019 % Income Tax Expense: 501 1,212 (711) (58.7)% Effective Tax Rate 27.2 % 21.4 % Adjusted Effective Tax Rate 23.5 % 22.0 % Income Tax Impact of: The following table sets forth income tax expense and our effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in millions): For additional information on income tax expense and our effective tax rate, see note 15 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. Defined Benefit Plans Mark-to-Market Charges 1,555 571 984 172.3 % Transformation Strategy Costs 83 59 24 40.7 % Goodwill and Other Asset Impairment Charges 57 57 N M Legal Contingencies and Expenses 6 (6) N M Adjusted Income Tax Expense 2,196 1,848 348 18.8 % MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Liquidity and Capital Resources commercial paper programs and capital markets and other available liquidity options will be adequate to fund our operating requirements, planned capital expenditures and pension contributions, transformation strategy costs, debt obligations and planned shareowner returns. We regularly evaluate opportunities to optimize our capital structure, including through issuances of debt to refinance existing debt and to fund operations. We have currently suspended share repurchases under our stock repurchase program. Cash Flows From Operating Activities (a) Represents depreciation and amortization, gains and losses on derivative transactions and foreign currency exchange, deferred income taxes, allowances for expected credit losses, amortization of operating lease assets, pension and postretirement benefit expense, stock compensation expense, changes in casualty self-insurance reserves, goodwill and other asset impairment charges and other non-cash items. suppliers. We agree commercial terms with our suppliers, including prices, quantities and payment terms, regardless of whether the supplier elects to participate in the SCF program. Suppliers issue invoices to us based on the agreed-upon contractual terms. Then, if they are participating in the SCF program, our suppliers, at their sole discretion, determine which invoices, if any, to sell to the financial institutions. Our suppliers voluntary inclusion of invoices in the SCF program has no bearing on our payment terms. No guarantees are provided by us under the SCF program. We have no economic interest in a supplier s decision to participate, and we have no direct financial relationship with the financial institutions, as it relates to the SCF program. Net income 1,343 4,440 Net cash from operating activities 10,459 8,639 Non-cash operating activities 11,181 6,405 Pension and postretirement benefit plan contributions (company-sponsored plans) (3,125) (2,362) Hedge margin receivables and payables (507) 171 Income tax receivables and payables 205 599 Changes in working capital and other non-current assets and liabilities 1,383 (634) Other operating activities (21) 20 Total contributions to our company-sponsored pension and U.S. postretirement medical benefit plans were 3.1 billion during 2020 compared to 2.4 billion in 2019. We made discretionary contributions of 2.8 billion to our three primary, company-sponsored U.S. pension plans during 2020 compared to 2.0 billion in 2019. Our net hedge margin collateral decreased by 678 million due to the change in net fair value of derivative contracts used in our currency and interest rate hedging programs. Cash payments for income taxes were 1.1 billion and 514 million for 2020 and 2019, respectively, with changes driven by the timing of deductions related to pension contributions, depreciation and employer payroll taxes. Favorable changes in working capital were driven by the deferral of approximately 1.1 billion of employer payroll taxes under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act that was signed into law on March 27, 2020, as well as changes in incentive compensation plan payouts. These benefits were partially offset by an increase in working capital demand as a result of business growth. As of December 31, 2020, we had 6.3 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We believe that these positions, expected cash from operations, access to The following is a summary of the significant sources (uses) of cash from operating activities (in millions): Net cash from operating activities increased 1.8 billion for the year, driven by the following: As part of our ongoing efforts to improve our working capital efficiency, certain financial institutions offer a voluntary Supply Chain Finance ("SCF") program to certain of our MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS financial institutions that as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, suppliers sold them 639 and 268 million, respectively, of our outstanding payment obligations. Amounts due to suppliers that participate in the SCF program may be reflected in cash flows from operating activities or cash flows from investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. The amount settled through the SCF program was approximately 1.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. foreign subsidiaries. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by our U.S. and foreign subsidiaries fluctuates throughout the year due to a variety of factors, including the timing of cash receipts and disbursements in the normal course of business. Cash provided by operating activities in the U.S. continues to be our primary source of funds to finance domestic operating needs, capital expenditures, share repurchases, pension contributions and dividend payments to shareowners. All cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries are generally available for distribution to the U.S. without any U.S. federal income taxes. Any such distributions may be subject to foreign withholding and U.S. state taxes. When amounts earned by foreign subsidiaries are expected to be indefinitely reinvested, no accrual for taxes is provided. Amounts due to our suppliers that participate in the SCF program are included in accounts payable in our consolidated balance sheets. We have been informed by the participating As of December 31, 2020, our total worldwide holdings of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were 6.3 billion, of which approximately 3.0 billion was held by MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cash Flows From Investing Activities are included in cash flows from financing activities. capital spending for anticipated growth and replacement assets will depend on a variety of factors, including economic and industry conditions. Our current investment program anticipates maintenance of buildings, facilities and plant equipment, as well as investments in technology initiatives and additional network capabilities. We currently expect that our capital expenditures will be approximately 4.0 billion in 2021. capacity expansion projects. Capital spending on aircraft decreased due to reductions in contract deposits on open aircraft orders and in final payments associated with the delivery of aircraft. was primarily due to reductions in outstanding balances within our finance portfolios. Purchases and sales of marketable securities are largely determined by liquidity needs and the periodic rebalancing of investment types, and will fluctuate from period to period. as well as made immaterial acquisitions in our International Small Package and Healthcare Logistics business units. Other investing activities were impacted by changes in our non- current investments, purchase contract deposits and various other items. In addition to capital expenditures of 5.4 and 6.4 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively, there were capital expenditures relating to principal repayments of finance lease obligations of 192 and 140 million. These Our primary sources (uses) of cash for investing activities were as follows (amounts in millions): We have commitments for the purchase of aircraft, vehicles, equipment and real estate to provide for the replacement of existing capacity and anticipated future growth. Future In 2020, capital expenditures on buildings, facilities and plant equipment decreased in our global small package business, as we reduced spending on facility automation and Proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment were largely attributable to sales of international property in 2020 and 2019. The net change in finance receivables Cash paid for business acquisitions in 2020 related to the acquisition of area franchise rights for The UPS Store. In 2019, we also acquired area franchise rights for The UPS Store, We anticipate that the divestiture of UPS Freight will be completed in the second quarter of 2021. We intend to use the proceeds from this divestiture to repay outstanding debt. Net cash used in investing activities (5,283) (6,061) Capital Expenditures: Buildings, facilities and plant equipment (2,460) (2,729) Aircraft and parts (1,145) (1,890) Vehicles (1,002) (987) Information technology (805) (774) Total Capital Expenditures : (5,412) (6,380) Capital Expenditures as a % of revenue 6.4 % 8.6 % Other Investing Activities: Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment 40 65 Net change in finance receivables 44 13 Net (purchases), sales and maturities of marketable securities 106 322 Cash paid for business acquisitions, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired (20) (6) Other investing activities (41) (75) MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cash Flows From Financing Activities As previously disclosed, we have suspended share repurchases under our stock repurchase program. We repurchased 9.1 million shares for 1.0 billion throughout 2019 ( 224 million and 1.0 billion in repurchases for 2020 and 2019, respectively, are reported on the statement of cash flows due to the timing of settlements). For additional information on our share repurchase activities, see note 12 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. settled in shares of class A common stock. requirements, future prospects and other relevant factors. We expect to continue the practice of paying regular cash dividends. In February 2021, we increased our quarterly dividend payment from 1.01 to 1.02 per share. Our primary sources (uses) of cash for financing activities were as follows (amounts in millions, except per share data): We repurchased a total of 2.1 million shares of class A and class B common stock for 217 million in 2020 substantially all of those purchases were in the first quarter of 2020. For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, dividends reported within shareowners' equity include 178 and 147 million, respectively, of non-cash dividends that were The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors and depends on various factors, including our net income, financial condition, cash Net cash used in financing activities (4,517) (1,727) Share Repurchases: Cash expended for shares repurchased (224) (1,004) Number of shares repurchased (2.1) (9.1) Shares outstanding at period end 865 857 Percent increase (decrease) in shares outstanding 0.9 % (0.1) % Dividends: Dividends declared per share 4.04 3.84 Cash expended for dividend payments (3,374) (3,194) Borrowings: Net borrowings (repayments) of debt principal (851) 2,419 Other Financing Activities: Cash received for common stock issuances 285 218 Other financing activities (353) (166) Capitalization: Total debt outstanding at year end 24,654 25,238 Total shareowners equity at year end 669 3,283 Total capitalization 25,323 28,521 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We also paid down commercial paper and made scheduled principal payments on our finance lease obligations. Repayments of debt in 2019 included fixed-rate senior notes in the amount of 1.0 billion, commercial paper and scheduled principal payments on our finance lease obligations. repayments of debt. We have 2.6 billion of senior notes that mature in 2021. We do not currently intend to refinance this debt when it becomes due. millions): 2020 USD 15 15 1,426 1,426 0.78 % EUR 432 493 (0.39) % 2019 USD 2,172 2,172 1,665 1,665 2.24 % EUR 949 1,062 903 1,011 (0.39) % Total 3,234 Issuances of debt in 2020 and 2019 consisted of borrowings under our commercial paper program and issuances of fixed-rate senior notes as follows (in millions): Repayments of debt in 2020 included our 424 million 8.375% debentures that matured in April 2020 and our 500 million floating rate senior notes that matured in July 2020. We consider the overall fixed and floating interest rate mix of our portfolio and the related overall cost of borrowing when planning for future issuances and non-scheduled The amount of commercial paper outstanding fluctuates throughout the year based on daily liquidity needs. The following is a summary of our commercial paper program (in The variation in cash received from common stock issuances was primarily due to the number of stock option exercises by employees in 2020 and 2019. 2020 Fixed-rate senior notes: 2019 Fixed-rate senior notes: 3.900% senior notes 1,000 4.450% senior notes 750 5.200% senior notes 500 5.300% senior notes 1,250 Total 3,500 2.200% senior notes 400 2.500% senior notes 400 3.400% senior notes (multiple issuances) 1,450 4.250% senior notes 750 Total 3,000 outstanding balance at year outstanding balance at year Functional currency Functional currency MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND Outstanding balance at year Outstanding balance at year UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES end ( ) Average balance outstanding end ( ) Average balance outstanding RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Average balance outstanding Average balance outstanding ( ) Average interest rate ( ) Average interest rate Principal Amount in USD Principal Amount in USD 2020 and 2019, respectively. The increase in cash used was driven by changes in the vesting schedule for certain of our awards. Net cash inflows from premium payments and settlements of capped call options for the purchase of UPS class B shares were 0 and 21 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Sources of Credit Guarantees and Other Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements interest entities, which we believe could have a material impact on financial condition or liquidity. Contractual Commitments to satisfy these obligations primarily through the use of cash flows from operations. The following table summarizes the expected cash outflow to satisfy our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2020 (in millions): (1) Operating lease commitments for 2021 include 184 million of committed leases that have not yet commenced. financial statements. Purchase commitments, as well as our debt principal obligations, are discussed further in note 9 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. The amount of interest on our debt was calculated as the contractual interest payments due on our fixed-rate debt and variable rate debt based on interest rates as of December 31, 2020. The calculations of debt interest take into account the effect of any interest rate swap agreements. For debt denominated in a foreign currency, the U.S. Dollar equivalent principal amount of the debt at the end of the year was used as the basis to calculate future interest payments. expanded facilities and orders for technology equipment and vehicles. As of December 31, 2020, we had firm commitments to purchase three new Boeing 767-300 aircraft to be delivered in 2021 and 8 new Boeing 747-8F aircraft to be delivered between 2021 and 2022. We also had a firm commitment to purchase two Boeing MD-11 aircraft to be delivered in 2021. We paid a deposit equal to the full purchase price for these MD-11 aircraft in December 2019 therefore these aircraft are not included in the commitment table above. the tax over eight years based on an installment schedule outlined in the Tax Act and, as required, have reflected our remaining transition tax due by year as a contractual obligation. Commitment Type 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 After 2025 Total Finance Leases 69 64 50 30 27 188 428 Operating Leases 815 557 458 335 259 1,468 3,892 Debt Principal 2,568 2,001 2,360 1,485 1,860 14,198 24,472 Debt Interest 754 725 671 633 638 7,703 11,124 Purchase Commitments 2,730 1,415 404 201 60 1 4,811 Tax Act Repatriation Liability 13 49 61 123 Pension Funding 252 252 Total 7,188 4,762 3,956 2,733 2,905 23,558 45,102 Other financing activities includes cash used to repurchase shares from employees sold to satisfy tax withholding obligations on vested stock awards of 340 and 180 million in See note 9 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our available credit and debt covenants. Except as disclosed in note 9 to the audited, consolidated financial statements, we do not have guarantees or other off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable We have contractual obligations and commitments in the form of finance leases, operating leases, debt obligations, purchase commitments and certain other liabilities. We intend Our finance lease obligations relate primarily to leases on aircraft and real estate. Finance leases and operating leases are discussed further in note 11 to the audited, consolidated Purchase commitments represent contractual agreements to purchase assets, goods or services that are legally binding, including contracts for aircraft, construction of new or In December 2017, the United States enacted into law the Tax Act, requiring a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. We elected to pay MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS statements). The amount of any minimum funding requirement, as applicable, for these plans could change significantly in future periods depending on many factors, including future plan asset returns, discount rates, other actuarial assumptions and changes to pension plan funding regulations. A decline in discount rates or a sustained significant decline in equity or bond returns could result in our U.S. pension plans being subject to significantly higher minimum funding requirements. Actual contributions made in future years could materially differ and consequently required minimum contributions beyond 2021 cannot be reasonably estimated. multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans in which we participate. Contribution rates to these multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans are established through the collective bargaining process. As we are not subject to any minimum contribution levels, we have not included any amounts in the contractual commitments table with respect to these multiemployer plans. in cash. Uncertain tax positions are further discussed in note 15 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. business requirements. We also issue surety bonds as an alternative to letters of credit in certain instances, and as of December 31, 2020, we had 1.3 billion of surety bonds written. As of December 31, 2020, we had unfunded loan commitments totaling 52 million associated with UPS Capital. operation of our business, including anticipated capital expenditures, transformation strategy costs and pension contributions for the foreseeable future. Contingencies discussion of judicial proceedings and other matters arising from the conduct of our business activities. Collective Bargaining Agreements Status of Collective Bargaining Agreements Multiemployer Benefit Plans employees. Our current collective bargaining agreements set forth the annual contribution increases allotted to the plans that we participate in, and we are in compliance with these contribution rates. These limitations will remain in effect throughout the terms of the existing collective bargaining agreements. New Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Standards Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective There are no anticipated required minimum cash contributions to our qualified U.S. pension plans (these plans are discussed further in note 6 to the audited, consolidated financial As discussed in note 7 to the audited, consolidated financial statements, we are not currently subject to any minimum contributions or surcharges with respect to the The table above does not include approximately 398 million of liabilities for uncertain tax positions because we are uncertain if or when such amounts will ultimately be settled As of December 31, 2020, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling approximately 1.4 billion issued in connection with our self-insurance reserves and other routine We believe that funds from operations and borrowing programs will provide adequate sources of liquidity and capital resources to meet our expected long-term needs for the See note 6 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for a discussion of pension related matters and note 10 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for a See note 7 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the status of collective bargaining agreements. We contribute to a number of multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans under the terms of collective bargaining agreements that cover our union represented See note 1 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently adopted accounting standards. See note 1 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for a discussion of accounting standards issued, but not yet effective. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Rate Adjustments 2021, additional handling and large package surcharge rates for non-Hundredweight service packages will differ by zone and effective July 11, 2021, additional handling and large package surcharge rates for Hundredweight Service packages will differ by zone. Effective October 25, 2020, surcharges applied to China and Hong Kong origin international shipments increased. Effective November 1, 2020, surcharges for certain Europe origin shipments increased. Effective November 8, 2020, surcharges increased for China Mainland, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Australia, New Zealand and other Asia origin shipments and a surcharge was applied to international shipments from Korea. Effective November 15, 2020, surcharges for certain Europe origin shipments increased. Effective December 27, 2020, surcharges for shipments from China Mainland and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to the U.S. decreased. Effective January 17, 2021, updated surcharges were applied to U.S. shipments. The rates for UPS Ground, UPS Air and International services increased by an average net 4.9%. UPS Air Freight rates within and between the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico increased an average net 4.8%. Rates for all UPS SurePost services increased. We announced various adjustments to our peak surcharges during the fourth quarter as follows: The following changes took effect on December 27, 2020: Additionally, effective January 10, 2021, an additional handling charge was applied to any package with a combined length plus girth exceeding 105 inches. Effective April 11, MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Estimates As indicated in note 1 to the audited, consolidated financial statements, the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in our financial statements are affected by estimates and judgments that are necessary to comply with GAAP. We base our estimates on prior experience, current trends, various other assumptions and third-party input that we consider reasonable to our circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates, which would affect the related amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. While estimates and judgments are applied in arriving at many reported amounts, we believe that the following critical accounting policies involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity. Contingencies impact our contingent liabilities are often unique and generally are not predictable. At the time a contingency is identified, we consider all relevant facts as part of our evaluation. We record a liability for a loss when the loss is probable of occurring and reasonably estimable. Events may arise that were not anticipated and the outcome of a contingency may result in a loss to us that differs from our previously estimated liability. This difference could be material. Income taxes and self-insurance are discussed below. Except as disclosed in note 10 to the audited, consolidated financial statements, other contingent losses that were probable and estimable were not material to our financial position or results of operations as of, or for the year ended, December 31, 2020. In addition, we have certain contingent liabilities that have not been recognized as of, or for the year ended, December 31, 2020, because a loss was not reasonably estimable. Goodwill and Intangible Asset Impairments would indicate that it is more likely than not that the carrying amount may be impaired. We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, initially evaluating qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If the qualitative assessment is not conclusive, we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit to test goodwill for impairment. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the reporting unit s fair value, we record the excess amount as goodwill impairment, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. Our reporting units are set out in note 8 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. companies, as appropriate. The completion of the DCF model requires that we make a number of significant assumptions to produce an estimate of future cash flows. These assumptions include projections of future revenue, costs, capital expenditures, working capital and our cost of capital. We are also required to make assumptions relating to our overall business and operating strategy, and the regulatory and market environment. The projections that we use in our DCF model are updated annually and will change over time based on the historical performance and changing business conditions for each of our reporting units. regulations, or economic or market conditions could significantly impact these judgments, potentially decreasing the fair value of one or more reporting units. Any resulting impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations. discussed in note 4 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. Based on the most recent tests, the fair value of our remaining reporting units exceeds their carrying value. None of our reporting units incurred any goodwill impairment charges in 2019. This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with GAAP. As discussed in note 10 to the audited, consolidated financial statements, we are involved in various legal proceedings and subject to various contingencies. The events that may We test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis as of July 1st and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that We primarily determine the fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow ( DCF ) model and supplement this with observable valuation multiples for comparable The determination of whether goodwill is impaired involves a significant level of judgment in these assumptions, and changes in our forecasts, business strategy, government We recognized a goodwill impairment charge of 494 million for our UPS Freight reporting unit in 2020 in conjunction with our evaluation of assets held for sale, which is MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS determined that the income approach, specifically the relief from royalty method, is the most appropriate valuation method to estimate the fair value of the trade name. This valuation approach requires that we make a number of assumptions to estimate fair value. These assumptions include projections of future revenues, market royalty rates, tax rates, discount rates and other relevant variables. The projections we use in the model are updated annually and will change over time based on the historical performance and changing business conditions. If the carrying value of the trade name exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment charge would be recognized for the excess amount. a triggering event occurs that indicates that the carrying value of the intangible may not be recoverable based on its undiscounted future cash flows. If the carrying amount of the intangible is determined not to be recoverable, a write-down to fair value is recorded. Fair values are estimated using a DCF model. If impairment indicators are present, the resulting impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations. See note 8 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for details of finite-lived intangible asset impairments. Self-Insurance Accruals are based on third-party actuarial estimates, which incorporate historical loss experience and judgments about the present and expected cost per claim. Trends in actual experience are a significant factor in the determination of our reserves. project the ultimate cost that will be incurred to fully resolve a claim. A number of factors can affect the actual cost of a claim, including the severity and length of time the claim remains open, trends in healthcare costs, the results of any related litigation and changes in legislation. Furthermore, claims may emerge in a future year for events that occurred in a prior year at a rate that differs from actuarial projections. All of these factors can result in revisions to actuarial projections and produce a material difference between estimated and actual operating results. Based on our historical experience, in 2019 we changed our self-insurance reserves from the central estimate to the low end of the actuarial range of losses. We believe our estimated reserves for such claims are adequate actual experience in claim frequency and or severity could materially differ from our estimates and affect our results of operations. For additional information on our self-insurance reserves, refer to note 1 of the audited, consolidated financial statements. number of employees and eligible dependents covered under the plans, global health events, anticipated medical usage by participants and overall trends in medical costs and inflation. We believe our estimates are reasonable appropriate. Actual experience may differ from these estimates and, therefore, produce a material difference between estimated and actual operating results. Pension and Other Postretirement Medical Benefits healthcare cost trend rates, inflation, compensation increases, expected returns on plan assets, mortality rates, regulatory requirements and other factors. The assumptions utilized in recording the obligations under our plans represent our best estimates, and we believe that they are reasonable, based on information as to historical experience and performance as well as other factors that might cause future expectations to differ from past trends. actuarial gains and losses each year are (1) changes in the discount rate used to value pension and postretirement benefit obligations as of the measurement date, (2) differences between the expected and the actual return on plan assets, (3) changes in demographic assumptions including mortality, (4) participant experience different from demographic assumptions and (5) changes in coordinating benefits with plans not sponsored by UPS. In 2019, we refined the bond matching approach used to determine the discount rate for our U.S. pension and postretirement plans by implementing advances in technology and modeling techniques as discussed in note 6 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. Our pension and other postretirement medical benefit costs are calculated using various actuarial assumptions and methodologies. These assumptions include discount rates, A trade name with a carrying value of 200 million and licenses with a carrying value of 5 million as of December 31, 2020 are considered to be indefinite-lived intangibles. We All of our remaining intangible assets are deemed to be finite-lived and are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Impairment tests for these assets are only performed when We self-insure costs associated with workers compensation claims, automobile liability, health and welfare and general business liabilities, up to certain limits. Insurance reserves Workers compensation, automobile liability and general liability insurance claims may take several years to completely settle. Consequently, actuarial estimates are required to We sponsor a number of health and welfare insurance plans for our employees. Liabilities and expenses related to these plans are based on estimates of, among other things, the Differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may affect our pension and other postretirement obligations and future expenses. The primary factors contributing to MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS plans' projected benefit obligations) in pension expense annually at December 31st each year. The remaining components of pension expense (herein referred to as "ongoing net periodic benefit cost"), primarily service and interest costs and the expected return on plan assets, are reported on a quarterly basis. and the resulting increase (decrease) on our obligations and expense as of, and for the year ended, December 31, 2020 (in millions): Depreciation, Residual Value and Impairment of Fixed Assets expected useful lives and residual values. We review long-lived assets for impairment at either the individual asset level or the asset group for which the lowest level of independent cash flows can be identified. Impairment reviews occur when circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable based on undiscounted future cash flows. The circumstances that would indicate potential impairment may include, but are not limited to, a significant change in the extent to which an asset is utilized and operating or cash flow losses associated with the use of the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset is determined not to be recoverable, a write-down to fair value is recorded. Fair values are determined based on quoted market values, discounted cash flows or external appraisals, as appropriate. There were no material impairment charges on our fixed assets during 2020 or 2019. Pension Plans Discount Rate: Return on Assets: Postretirement Medical Plans Discount Rate: Healthcare Cost Trend Rate: Effect on ongoing net periodic benefit cost (41) 42 Effect on net periodic benefit cost for amounts recognized outside the 10% corridor (2,434) 2,618 Effect on projected benefit obligation (2,761) 2,942 Effect on ongoing net periodic benefit cost (118) 118 Effect on net periodic benefit cost for amounts recognized outside the 10% corridor (115) 115 Effect on ongoing net periodic benefit cost 3 (3) Effect on net periodic benefit cost for amounts recognized outside the 10% corridor (54) 64 Effect on accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (60) 71 Effect on ongoing net periodic benefit cost 1 (1) Effect on net periodic benefit cost for amounts recognized outside the 10% corridor 13 (14) Effect on accumulated postretirement benefit obligation 14 (16) Amount calculated based on 25 basis point increase decrease in the expected return on assets. Amount calculated based on 25 basis point increase decrease in the actual return on assets. The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact of a 25 basis point change in the assumed discount rate and return on assets for our pension and postretirement benefit plans, We recognize changes in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains or losses in excess of a corridor (defined as 10% of the greater of the fair value of plan assets or the Refer to note 6 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for information on our potential liability for coordinating benefits related to the Central States Pension Fund. As of December 31, 2020, we had 32.3 billion of net fixed assets, the most significant category of which is aircraft. In accounting for fixed assets, we make estimates of the MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 25 Basis Point 25 Basis Point by changes to our maintenance programs, changes in the utilization of the aircraft, governmental regulations on aging aircraft and changing market prices of new and used aircraft of the same or similar types. We periodically evaluate these estimates and assumptions, and adjust them as necessary. Adjustments are accounted for on a prospective basis through depreciation expense. In estimating cash flows, we project future volume levels for our different air products in all geographic regions in which we do business. Adverse changes in these volume forecasts, or a shortfall of our actual volume compared with our projections, could result in our current aircraft capacity exceeding current or projected demand. This situation could lead to an excess of a particular aircraft, resulting in an impairment charge or a reduction of the expected useful life of an aircraft that may result in increased depreciation expense. factors that may affect the useful lives of the assets. See note 1 to the audited, consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our accounting policies for long-lived assets. Fair Value Measurements pension assets, other investments and debt. Certain of these financial instruments are required to be recorded at fair value, principally derivatives, marketable securities, pension assets and certain other investments. Fair values are based on listed market prices, when such prices are available. To the extent that listed market prices are not available, fair value is determined based on other relevant factors, including dealer price quotations. If listed market prices or other relevant factors are not available, inputs are developed from unobservable data reflecting our own assumptions and include situations where there is little or no market activity for the asset or liability. Certain financial instruments, including over-the-counter derivative instruments, are valued using pricing models that consider, among other factors, contractual and market prices, correlations, time value, credit spreads and yield curve volatility factors. Changes in the fixed income, foreign currency exchange and commodity markets will impact our estimates of fair value in the future, potentially affecting our results of operations. A quantitative sensitivity analysis of our exposure to changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates is presented in the Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk section of this report. assets are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis however, they are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances, such as when there is evidence of an impairment or when an asset or disposal group is classified as held for sale. estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from acquired customers, technology and trade names from a market participant perspective, useful lives and discount rates. Management s estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. As a result, actual results may differ from estimates. During the measurement period, which is one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to earnings. Income Taxes by legal entity and jurisdiction, tax credits, benefits and deductions, and in the calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes, as well as tax, interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. Significant changes to these estimates may result in an increase or decrease to our tax provision in a subsequent period. In estimating the lives and expected residual values of aircraft, we rely upon actual experience with the same or similar aircraft types. Revisions to these estimates could be caused We evaluate the useful lives of our property, plant and equipment based on our usage, maintenance and replacement policies, and taking into account physical and economic In the normal course of business, we hold and issue financial instruments that contain elements of market risk, including derivatives, marketable securities, finance receivables, Certain non-financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, including property, plant, and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets. These For business acquisitions, we allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired based on their We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of income MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS allowance against the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. We believe that we will ultimately recover a substantial majority of the deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. However, should there be a change in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, our tax provision would increase in the period in which we determined that the recovery was not likely. a two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. Once it is determined that the position meets the recognition threshold, the second step requires us to estimate and measure the largest amount of tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement. The difference between the amount of recognizable tax benefit and the total amount of tax benefit from positions filed or to be filed with the tax authorities is recorded as a liability for uncertain tax benefits. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as we have to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We reevaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement could result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. We assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a valuation The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk normal course of business, as we do not engage in speculative trading activities. In order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we may utilize a variety of commodity, foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate forward contracts, options and swaps. A discussion of our accounting policies for derivative instruments and further disclosures are provided in note 1 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. Commodity Price Risk Currently, the fuel surcharges that we apply to our domestic and international package and LTL services are the primary means of reducing the risk of adverse fuel price changes. In order to mitigate the impact of fuel surcharges imposed on us by outside carriers, we regularly adjust the rates we charge for our freight brokerage, inter-modal and truckload services. The majority of our contracts for fuel purchases utilize index-based pricing formulas plus or minus a fixed locational supplier differential. While many of the indices are aligned, each index may fluctuate at a different pace, driving variability in the prices paid for fuel. Because of this, our operating results may be affected should the market price of fuel suddenly change by a significant amount or change by amounts that do not result in an adjustment in our fuel surcharges, which can significantly affect our results either positively or negatively in the short-term. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had no commodity contracts outstanding. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk exposed to currency risk from the potential changes in functional currency values of our foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities and cash flows. Our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Canadian Dollar, Chinese Renminbi and Hong Kong Dollar. We use forward contracts as well as a combination of purchased and written options to hedge forecasted cash flow currency exposures. These derivative instruments generally cover forecasted foreign currency exposures for periods of 12 to 48 months. We also utilize forward contracts to hedge portions of our anticipated cash settlements of intercompany transactions and interest payments on certain debt subject to foreign currency remeasurement. Interest Rate Risk swaps as part of our program to manage the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity dates of the swaps match the terms of the associated debt. We also utilize forward starting swaps and similar instruments to lock in all or a portion of the borrowing cost of anticipated debt issuances. Our floating-rate debt and interest rate swaps subject us to risk resulting from changes in short-term interest rates. For a discussion of the risks associated with the anticipated cessation of LIBOR, see Part I, "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Financial Risks - The proposed phase out of the London Interbank Offer Rate ("LIBOR") could have a material adverse effect on us". liabilities associated with these benefit plans, which also results in changes to the amount of pension and postretirement benefit expense recognized in future periods. finance receivables that accrue income at fixed and floating rates of interest. We are exposed to market risk from changes in certain commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. All of these market risks arise in the We are exposed to changes in the prices of refined fuels, principally jet-A, diesel and unleaded gasoline, as well as changes in the price of natural gas and other alternative fuels. We have foreign currency risks related to our revenue, operating expenses and financing transactions in currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate. We are We have issued debt instruments, including debt associated with finance leases, that accrue expense at fixed and floating rates of interest. We use a combination of interest rate We also are subject to interest rate risk with respect to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations, as changes in interest rates will effectively increase or decrease our We have investments in debt securities, as well as cash-equivalent instruments, some of which accrue income at variable rates of interest. Additionally, we hold a portfolio of MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Sensitivity Analysis existing financial instruments. We utilize valuation models to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk that assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves and commodity and equity prices. For options and instruments with non-linear returns, models appropriate to the instrument are utilized to determine the impact of market shifts. that interest rates change instantaneously. In addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. While this is our best estimate of the impact of the specified interest rate scenarios, these estimates should not be viewed as forecasts. We adjust the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities in response to changes in market conditions. Additionally, changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives and commodity derivatives are offset by changes in the cash flows of the underlying hedged foreign currency and commodity transactions. and interest income of our finance receivables and marketable securities due to changes in interest rates was not material as of December 31, 2020 or 2019. (in millions) 2020 2019 Change in Fair Value: Currency Derivatives (809) (786) Change in Annual Interest Expense: Variable Rate Debt 26 64 Interest Rate Derivatives 33 37 The potential change in fair value from a hypothetical 10% weakening of the U.S. Dollar against local currency exchange rates across all maturities. The potential change in annual interest expense resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate debt and swap instruments (excluding hedges of anticipated debt issuances). The following analysis provides quantitative information regarding our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk embedded in our There are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that foreign currency exchange rates change in a parallel fashion and The sensitivity of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to changes in interest rates is quantified in Critical Accounting Estimates . The sensitivity in the fair value MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Shock-Test Result As of December 31, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 57 Consolidated Balance Sheets 61 Statements of Consolidated Income 62 Statements of Consolidated Comprehensive Income (Loss) 62 Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows 63 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 64 Note 1 Summary of Accounting Policies 64 Note 2 Revenue Recognition 71 Note 3 Investments and Restricted Cash 74 Note 4 Assets Held for Sale 78 Note 5 Property, Plant and Equipment 79 Note 6 Company-Sponsored Employee Benefit Plans 80 Note 7 Multiemployer Employee Benefit Plans 92 Note 8 Goodwill and Intangible Assets 95 Note 9 Debt and Financing Arrangements 97 Note 10 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies 102 Note 11 Leases 103 Note 12 Shareowners Equity 107 Note 13 Stock-Based Compensation 111 Note 14 Segment and Geographic Information 115 Note 15 Income Taxes 118 Note 16 Earnings Per Share 122 Note 17 Derivative Instruments and Risk Management 123 Note 18 Transformation Strategy Costs 128 Note 19 Quarterly Information (Unaudited) 129 Note 20 Subsequent Events 130 Table of Contents To the Shareowners and Board of Directors of United Parcel Service, Inc. Atlanta, Georgia Opinion on the Financial Statements consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 22, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Change in Accounting Principle Accounting Standards Update 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). This change has been applied on a modified retrospective basis effective on January 1, 2019. Basis for Opinion audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matters communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of United Parcel Service, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the related We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for leases due to the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Central States Pension Fund coordinating benefit obligation assumptions - Refer to Note 6, Company-Sponsored Employee Benefit Plans (Actuarial Assumptions - Central States Pension Fund), to the financial statements Critical Audit Matter Description Company agreed to provide coordinating benefits in the UPS IBT Full Time Employee Pension Plan ( UPS IBT Plan ) to CSPF participants whose last employer was the Company and who had not retired as of January 1, 2008 (the UPS Transfer Group ) if the CSPF were to lawfully reduce benefits consistent with the terms of its withdrawal agreement with the Company. The CSPF has asserted that, absent legislative reform, it will become insolvent in 2025. If the CSPF were to become insolvent consistent with that assertion, the Company may be required to provide coordinating benefits through the UPS IBT Plan to the UPS Transfer Group. matter and is prohibited from anticipating potential changes in law in making that best estimate. The Company considered potential outcomes based on the existing legislative framework, including the eventual insolvency of the CSPF or an approved application to reduce benefits under the U.S. Multiemployer Pension Reform Act ( MPRA ). Due to the passage of time and further deterioration of the CSPF s funded status, the Company believes the trustees of the CSPF (the Trustees ) can no longer submit and implement another benefit reduction plan under MPRA. As such, the Company developed a deterministic cash flow projection that reflects updated estimated CSPF cash flows and investment earnings, the lack of legislative action, and the projected financial assistance to the CSPF from the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ( PBGC ) to fund the PBGC s guaranteed benefit levels. directly provided by the UPS IBT Plan to the UPS Transfer Group increased by 2.9 billion. At the December 31, 2020 measurement date, the total obligation for the CSPF coordinating benefits was 5.5 billion. How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit Benefits ) included the following, among others: 1. Auditing management s assumption related to the level of financial assistance that CSPF may receive from the PBGC based on enacted law is subjective. 2. Auditing the actuarial assumptions used to estimate the timing and present value of future CSPF cash flows is challenging because the underlying data is limited to information made publicly available by the CSPF. 3. Auditing the sufficiency of the Company s disclosure of this matter in the footnotes to the financial statements is challenging due to the number of uncertainties associated with the obligation. We tested the effectiveness of controls over Coordinating Benefits assumptions, including those over the determination of the accounting model, the key legal position relevant to the level of financial assistance guaranteed by the PBGC based upon enacted law, the other actuarial assumptions used to project the Coordinating Benefits obligation and the related financial statement disclosures. With the assistance of professionals in our firm having expertise in pension accounting, we evaluated the Company s conclusions regarding the accounting model applied to the Coordinating Benefits obligation. With the assistance of our actuarial specialists, we tested the underlying data and actuarial model used by management to estimate the obligation to provide Coordinating Benefits, including consideration of (1) the discount rate (2) the projected contributions and benefit payments, including PBGC contributions to the CSPF and (3) the expected return on CSPF assets. Further, because the data used by management is limited to publicly available CSPF information, we considered whether other available sources of data may yield a more precise estimate. We compared the Company s footnote disclosure relating to this matter to the information communicated between management and the Company s audit committee to evaluate whether significant uncertainties had been omitted from the disclosure. The Company was a contributing employer to the Central States Pension Fund ( CSPF ) until 2007 when it withdrew and fully funded its allocable share of unvested benefits. The Under accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ), the Company is required to determine its best estimate of the eventual outcome of this As a result, at the December 31, 2020 measurement date, the best estimate of the Company s projected benefit obligation for coordinating benefits that may be required to be The assumptions require significant management judgment and the following audit considerations: Our audit procedures to address the Company s assumptions used to measure its obligation to pay for CSPF coordinating benefits to the UPS Transfer Group (the Coordinating Valuation of U.S. hedge fund, risk parity, private debt, private equity and real estate investments - Refer to Note 6, Company-Sponsored Employee Benefit Plans (Fair Value Measurements), to the financial statements Critical Audit Matter Description valued at 7.9 billion as of December 31, 2020. estimated net asset value ( NAV ) of the fund. In order to estimate NAV, the Company evaluates audited and unaudited financial reports from fund managers, and makes adjustments, as appropriate, for investment activity between the date of the financial reports and December 31st. These investments are not actively traded, and their values can only be estimated using these subjective assumptions. evaluate the completeness, reliability and relevance of the inputs used by management. How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit investments included the following, among others: Revenue - Refer to Note 2, Revenue Recognition, to the financial statements Critical Audit Matter Description small packages and palletized freight via air and ground services. The Company s global small package revenues are comprised of a significant volume of low-dollar transactions sourced from systems that were primarily developed by the Company. The processing of transactions, including the recording of them, is highly automated and based on contractual terms with the Company s customers. us to identify, test, and evaluate the Company s systems, software applications, and automated controls. We tested the effectiveness of controls, including those related to the reliability of values reported by fund managers, the relevance of asset class benchmark returns, and the completeness and accuracy of unobservable inputs related to the underlying assets of the funds. For certain investments, we confirmed directly with the respective fund manager its preliminary estimate of the fund s NAV as of December 31, 2020. For certain investments, we inquired of management to understand year over year changes in the fund manager's estimate of NAV and compared the fund's return on investment to other available qualitative and quantitative information relevant to the fund. We evaluated the Company s historical ability to accurately estimate NAV for these funds by comparing each fund s recorded valuation as of its prior fiscal year end to the NAV per the audited fund financial statements (which are received in arrears of the Company s reporting timetable). The Company s U.S. pension and postretirement medical benefit plans (the U.S. Plans ) held hedge fund, risk parity, private debt, private equity and real estate investments The Company determines the reported values of the U.S. Plans investments in hedge, risk parity, private debt, private equity and real estate funds primarily based on the Auditing the estimated NAV of these hedge fund, risk parity, private debt, private equity and real estate investments requires a high degree of auditor judgment and subjectivity to Our audit procedures related to the inputs used by management to estimate the NAV of the U.S. Plans hedge fund, risk parity, private debt, private equity and real estate Approximately 82 percent of the Company s revenues are from its global small package operations that provide time-definite delivery services for express letters, documents, Auditing global small package revenue required a significant extent of effort and the involvement of professionals with expertise in information technology ( IT ) necessary for How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit s Deloitte & Touche LLP Atlanta, Georgia February 22, 2021 We have served as the Company's auditor since 1969. With the assistance of our IT specialists, we: We tested the effectiveness of controls over the relevant global small package revenue business processes, including those in place to reconcile the various systems to the Company s general ledger. We performed analytical procedures to evaluate the Company s recorded revenue and evaluate trends. For a sample of customers, we read the Company s contract with the customer and evaluated the Company s pattern of revenue recognition for the customer. In addition, we evaluated the accuracy of the Company s recorded global small package revenue for a sample of customer invoices. Our audit procedures related to the Company s systems to process global small package revenue transactions included the following, among others: Identified the significant systems used to process global small package revenue transactions and tested the effectiveness of the general IT controls over each of these systems, including testing of user access controls, change management controls, and IT operations controls. Tested the effectiveness of system interface controls and automated controls within the global small package revenue stream, as well as the controls designed to ensure the accuracy and completeness of revenue. December 31, Current Assets: Property, Plant and Equipment, Net 32,254 30,482 Operating Lease Right-Of-Use Assets 3,073 2,856 Goodwill 3,367 3,813 Intangible Assets, Net 2,274 2,167 Investments and Restricted Cash 25 24 Deferred Income Tax Assets 527 330 Other Non-Current Assets 672 1,082 Total Assets 62,408 57,857 Current Liabilities: Long-Term Debt and Finance Leases 22,031 21,818 Non-Current Operating Leases 2,540 2,391 Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations 15,817 10,601 Deferred Income Tax Liabilities 488 1,632 Other Non-Current Liabilities 3,847 2,719 Shareowners Equity: Total Shareowners Equity 669 3,283 Total Liabilities and Shareowners Equity 62,408 57,857 Cash and cash equivalents 5,910 5,238 Marketable securities 406 503 Accounts receivable 10,888 9,645 Less: Allowance for credit losses (138) (93) Assets held for sale 1,197 Other current assets 1,953 1,810 Current maturities of long-term debt, commercial paper and finance leases 2,623 3,420 Current maturities of operating leases 560 538 Accounts payable 6,455 5,555 Accrued wages and withholdings 3,569 2,552 Self-insurance reserves 1,085 914 Accrued group welfare and retirement plan contributions 927 793 Liabilities to be disposed of 347 Other current liabilities 1,450 1,641 Class A common stock (147 and 156 shares issued in 2020 and 2019) 2 2 Class B common stock (718 and 701 shares issued in 2020 and 2019) 7 7 Additional paid-in capital 865 150 Retained earnings 6,896 9,105 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (7,113) (5,997) Deferred compensation obligations 20 26 Less: Treasury stock (0.4 shares in 2020 and 2019) (20) (26) Noncontrolling Interests 12 16 Accounts receivable, net 10,750 9,552 Total Current Assets 20,216 17,103 Total Current Liabilities 17,016 15,413 Total Equity for Controlling Interests 657 3,267 LIABILITIES AND SHAREOWNERS EQUITY UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES See notes to audited, consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In millions) Years Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 Revenue 84,628 74,094 71,861 Operating Expenses: Total Operating Expenses 76,944 66,296 64,837 Operating Profit 7,684 7,798 7,024 Other Income and (Expense): Total Other Income and (Expense) (5,840) (2,146) (1,005) Income Before Income Taxes 1,844 5,652 6,019 Income Tax Expense 501 1,212 1,228 Net Income 1,343 4,440 4,791 Basic Earnings Per Share 1.55 5.14 5.53 Diluted Earnings Per Share 1.54 5.11 5.51 Years Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 Net Income 1,343 4,440 4,791 Change in foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax 97 48 (149) Change in unrealized gain (loss) on marketable securities, net of tax 2 6 Change in unrealized gain (loss) on cash flow hedges, net of tax (335) 72 485 Change in unrecognized pension and postretirement benefit costs, net of tax (880) (1,129) 272 Comprehensive Income (Loss) 227 3,437 5,399 Compensation and benefits 44,529 38,908 37,235 Repairs and maintenance 2,365 1,838 1,732 Depreciation and amortization 2,698 2,360 2,207 Purchased transportation 15,631 12,590 13,409 Fuel 2,582 3,289 3,427 Other occupancy 1,539 1,392 1,362 Other expenses 7,600 5,919 5,465 Investment income (expense) and other (5,139) (1,493) (400) Interest expense (701) (653) (605) STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES See notes to audited, consolidated financial statements. STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME (In millions, except per share amounts) (In millions) Years Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 Cash Flows From Operating Activities: Cash Flows From Investing Activities: Cash Flows From Financing Activities: Effect Of Exchange Rate Changes On Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash 13 20 (91) Net Increase (Decrease) In Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash 672 871 598 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash: Cash Paid During The Period For: Net income 1,343 4,440 4,791 Capital expenditures (5,412) (6,380) (6,283) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment 40 65 37 Purchases of marketable securities (254) (561) (973) Sales and maturities of marketable securities 360 883 886 Net change in finance receivables 44 13 4 Cash paid for business acquisitions, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired (20) (6) (2) Other investing activities (41) (75) 1 Net change in short-term debt (2,462) 310 63 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 5,003 5,205 1,202 Repayments of long-term borrowings (3,392) (3,096) (2,887) Purchases of common stock (224) (1,004) (1,011) Issuances of common stock 285 218 240 Dividends (3,374) (3,194) (3,011) Other financing activities (353) (166) (288) Beginning of period 5,238 4,367 3,769 End of period 5,910 5,238 4,367 Interest (net of amount capitalized) 691 628 595 Income taxes (net of refunds and overpayments) 1,138 514 2 Net cash from operating activities 10,459 8,639 12,711 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operating activities: Net cash (used in) investing activities (5,283) (6,061) (6,330) Net cash (used in) financing activities (4,517) (1,727) (5,692) Depreciation and amortization 2,698 2,360 2,207 Pension and postretirement benefit expense 7,125 3,141 2,242 Pension and postretirement benefit contributions (3,125) (2,362) (186) Self-insurance reserves 503 (185) (86) Deferred tax (benefit) expense (858) 100 758 Stock compensation expense 796 915 634 Other (gains) losses 917 74 293 Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of business acquisitions: Other operating activities (21) 20 16 Accounts receivable (1,562) (717) (421) Other assets 218 698 754 Accounts payable 904 419 1,034 Accrued wages and withholdings 1,631 (446) 505 Other liabilities (110) 182 170 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS See notes to audited, consolidated financial statements. (In millions) Basis of Financial Statements and Business Activities the accounts of United Parcel Service, Inc., and all of its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively UPS or the Company ). All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. provider of transportation, logistics and financial services. Use of Estimates amounts of revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingencies. Estimates have been prepared on the basis of the most current and best information, and actual results could differ materially from those estimates. In particular, a number of estimates have been and will continue to be affected by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The severity, magnitude and duration of the pandemic, and the resulting economic consequences, remain uncertain, rapidly changing and difficult to predict. As a result, our accounting estimates and assumptions may change over time. Revenue Recognition and related transportation costs are recognized over time as we perform the services. Customs brokerage revenue is recognized upon completing documents necessary for customs entry purposes. customers of our performance completed to date, and as such we recognize revenue in the amount to which we have a right to invoice the customer. which collection of an account becomes doubtful or the account becomes 90 days delinquent. Income on operating leases is recognized on the straight-line method over the terms of the underlying leases. whether our businesses themselves promise to transfer services to the customer (as the principal) or to arrange for services to be provided by another party (as the agent) using a control model. Based on our evaluation of the control model, we determined that all of our major businesses act as the principal rather than the agent within their revenue arrangements. Revenue and the associated purchased transportation costs are reported on a gross basis within our statements of consolidated income. Cash and Cash Equivalents purchased, to be cash equivalents. The carrying amount of these securities approximates fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments. NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ), and include We provide transportation services, primarily domestic and international letter and package delivery. Through our Supply Chain & Freight subsidiaries, we are also a global The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the reported U.S. Domestic and International Package Operations: Revenue is recognized over time as we perform the services in the contract. Forwarding: Freight forwarding revenue and the expense related to the transportation of freight are recognized over time as we perform the services. Truckload brokerage revenue Logistics & Distribution: In our Logistics & Distribution business we have a right to consideration from customers in an amount that corresponds directly with the value to the UPS Freight: Revenue is recognized over time as we perform the services in the contract. Financial Services: Income on loans and direct finance leases is recognized on the effective interest method. Accrual of interest income is suspended at the earlier of the time at Principal vs. Agent Considerations: We utilize independent contractors and third-party carriers in the performance of some transportation services. GAAP requires us to evaluate Refer to note 2 for further discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into cash. We consider securities with maturities of three months or less, when NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Investments Investment income (expense) and other on the statements of consolidated income. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are reported as accumulated other comprehensive income ( AOCI ), a separate component of shareowners equity. The amortized cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Such amortization and accretion is included in Investment income (expense) and other, along with interest and dividends. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method realized gains and losses resulting from such sales are included in Investment income (expense) and other. which a security s fair value has been less than its cost, overall economic and market conditions and the financial condition and specific prospects for the issuer. Impairment of available-for-sale securities results in a charge to income when a market decline below cost is other-than-temporary. Inventories unleaded gasoline inventories are valued at the lower of average cost or net realizable value. Total inventories were 620 and 511 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and are included in Other current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. Property, Plant and Equipment and taking into account physical and economic factors that may affect the useful lives of the assets. of the capitalized interest begins, straight-line, over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Capitalized interest was 87 and 91 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. the carrying amount of the asset is determined not to be recoverable, a write-down to fair value is recorded. Fair values are determined based on quoted market values, discounted cash flows or external appraisals, as appropriate. We review long-lived assets for impairment at the individual asset level or the asset group for which the lowest level of independent cash flows can be identified. Leased Assets For substantially all of our aircraft, the costs of major airframe and engine overhauls, as well as routine maintenance and repairs, are charged to expense as incurred. For a discussion of our accounting policies related to leased assets, refer to note 11. Debt securities are either classified as trading or available-for-sale securities and are carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on trading securities are reported as We periodically review our available-for-sale investments for indications of other-than-temporary impairment considering many factors, including the extent and duration to Fuel and other materials and supplies inventories are recognized as inventory when purchased, and then charged to expense when used in our operations. Jet fuel, diesel and Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost. We evaluate the useful lives of our property, plant and equipment based on our usage, maintenance and replacement policies, Depreciation and amortization are provided by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which are as follows: Interest incurred during the construction period of certain property, plant and equipment is capitalized until the underlying assets are placed in service, at which time amortization We review long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable based on its undiscounted future cash flows. If Aircraft: 12 to 40 years Buildings: 10 to 40 years Leasehold Improvements: lesser of asset useful life or lease term Plant Equipment: 3 to 20 years Technology Equipment: 3 to 10 years Vehicles: 5 to 15 years NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Goodwill and Intangible Assets changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred sooner. We are required to test goodwill on a reporting unit basis. A reporting unit is the operating segment unless, for businesses within that operating segment, discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management, in which case such a component business is the reporting unit. amount. We consider several factors, including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, overall financial performance of the reporting unit, changes in management, strategy or customers and relevant reporting unit-specific events such as a change in the carrying amount of net assets, a more likely than not expectation of selling or disposing of all, or a portion of, a reporting unit, and the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit. If this qualitative assessment results in a conclusion that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, then no further testing is performed for that reporting unit. reporting unit s fair value, we record the excess amount as goodwill impairment, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. We primarily determine the fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow model and supplement this with observable valuation multiples for comparable companies, as appropriate. therefore are not amortized. We determined that the income approach, specifically the relief from royalty method, is the most appropriate valuation method to estimate the fair value of the trade name. The estimated fair value of the trade name is compared to the carrying value of the asset. If the carrying value of the trade name exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from 2 to 22 years. Capitalized software is generally amortized over 7 years. Assets Held for Sale loss in the period in which the held for sale criteria are met. Gains are not recognized until the date of sale. We cease depreciation and amortization of a long-lived asset, or assets within a disposal group, upon their designation as held for sale and subsequently assess fair value less any costs to sell at each reporting period until the asset or disposal group is no longer classified as held for sale. Self-Insurance Accruals are established for estimates of the loss that we will ultimately incur on reported claims, as well as estimates of claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. The expected ultimate cost for claims incurred is estimated based upon historical loss experience and judgments about the present and expected levels of cost per claim. Trends in actual experience are a significant factor in the determination of our reserves. we have approved and committed to a plan to sell the assets or disposal group the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition an active program to locate a buyer and other actions required to complete the sale have been initiated the sale of the asset or disposal group is probable and expected to be completed within one year the asset or disposal group is being actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value and it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn. Costs of purchased businesses in excess of net identifiable assets acquired (goodwill), and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment at least annually, unless In assessing goodwill for impairment, we initially evaluate qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying If the qualitative assessment is not conclusive, we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit to test goodwill for impairment. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the A trade name with a carrying value of 200 million and licenses with a carrying value of 5 million as of December 31, 2020 are considered to be indefinite-lived intangibles, and Finite-lived intangible assets, including trademarks, licenses, patents, customer lists, non-compete agreements and franchise rights are amortized on a straight-line basis over the We classify long-lived assets or disposal groups as held for sale in the period when all of the following conditions have been met: We initially measure a long-lived asset or disposal group that is classified as held for sale at the lower of its carrying value or fair value less any costs to sell and recognize any We self-insure costs associated with workers compensation claims, automobile liability, health and welfare and general business liabilities, up to certain limits. Insurance reserves NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES project the ultimate cost that will be incurred to fully resolve a claim. A number of factors can affect the actual cost of a claim, including the length of time the claim remains open, trends in healthcare costs, the results of any related litigation and with respect to workers compensation claims, changes in legislation. Furthermore, claims may emerge in a future year for events that occurred in a prior year at a rate that differs from actuarial projections. All of these factors can result in revisions to actuarial projections and produce a material difference between estimated and actual operating results. Based on our historical experience, in 2019 we changed our self-insurance reserves from the central estimate to the low end of the actuarial range of losses. The principal result of this change was a decrease in expense of 94 million and an increase in net income of 72 million, or 0.08 per share on a basic and diluted basis. We believe our estimated reserves for such claims are adequate, but actual experience in claim frequency and or severity could materially differ from our estimates and affect our results of operations. eligible dependents covered under the plans, anticipated medical usage by participants and overall trends in medical costs and inflation. Pension and Postretirement Benefits sponsored defined benefit plans are calculated using various actuarial assumptions and methodologies, including discount rates, expected returns on plan assets, healthcare cost trend rates, inflation, compensation increase rates, mortality rates and coordination of benefits with plans not sponsored by UPS. Actuarial assumptions are reviewed on an annual basis, unless circumstances require an interim remeasurement of any of our plans. plan's projected benefit obligation) in Investment income (expense) and other annually at December 31st each year. The remaining components of pension expense, primarily service and interest costs and the expected return on plan assets, are recorded on a quarterly basis. recognize a liability for any contributions due and unpaid within Other current liabilities. contributions to these plans are determined in accordance with the respective collective bargaining agreements. We recognize expense for the contractually required contribution for each period, and we recognize a liability for any contributions due and unpaid within Other current liabilities. Income Taxes events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. In estimating future tax consequences, we generally consider all expected future events other than proposed changes in the tax law or rates. Valuation allowances are provided if it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be realized. available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. Once it is determined that the position meets the recognition threshold, the second step requires us to estimate and measure the largest amount of tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement. The difference between the amount of recognizable tax benefit and the total amount of tax benefit from positions filed or to be filed with the tax authorities is recorded as a liability for uncertain tax benefits. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as we have to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We reevaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement could result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. We incur certain employment-related expenses associated with pension and postretirement medical benefits. These pension and postretirement medical benefit costs for company- We recognize changes in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains or losses in excess of a corridor (defined as 10% of the greater of the fair value of plan assets or the For eligible employees hired after July 1, 2016, UPS contributes annually to a defined contribution plan. We recognize expense for the required contribution quarterly, and we We participate in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans for employees covered under collective bargaining agreements. Our Workers compensation, automobile liability and general liability insurance claims may take several years to completely settle. Consequently, actuarial estimates are required to We sponsor a number of health and welfare insurance plans for our employees. These liabilities and related expenses are based on estimates of the number of employees and Income taxes are accounted for on an asset and liability approach that requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Foreign Currency Translation and Remeasurement rates at the end of each period. Balance sheet currency translation adjustments are recorded in AOCI. Pre-tax foreign currency transaction gains (losses) from remeasurement, net of hedging, included in Investment income (expense) and other were 9, (6) and (19) million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Stock-Based Compensation for the award (the vesting period), less estimated forfeitures. We have issued employee share-based awards under the UPS Incentive Compensation Plan that are subject to specific vesting conditions, including service conditions, where the awards cliff vest or vest ratably over a one, three, or five year period (the "nominal vesting period ) or at the date the employee retires (as defined by the plan), if earlier. Compensation cost is generally recognized immediately for awards granted to retirement-eligible employees, or over the period from the grant date to the date retirement eligibility is achieved, if that is expected to occur during the nominal vesting period. We estimate forfeiture rates based on historical rates of forfeitures for awards with similar characteristics, historical rates of employee turnover and the nature and terms of the vesting conditions of the awards. We reevaluate our forfeiture rates on an annual basis. Fair Value Measurements active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 inputs are based on other observable market data, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities, and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable, such as interest rates and yield curves. Level 3 inputs are developed from unobservable data reflecting our own assumptions, and include situations where there is little or no market activity for the asset or liability. assets are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances, such as when there is evidence of an impairment. A general description of the valuation methodologies used for assets and liabilities measured at fair value, including the general classification of such assets and liabilities pursuant to the valuation hierarchy, is included in each footnote with fair value measurements present. values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. During the measurement period, which is one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to earnings. Derivative Instruments instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and, further, on the type of hedging relationship. For those derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, we designate the derivative as a cash flow hedge, a fair value hedge or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation based upon the exposure being hedged. and qualify as cash flow hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative instrument is reported as a component of AOCI, and reclassified into earnings in the period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. We translate the results of operations of our foreign subsidiaries using average exchange rates during each period, whereas balance sheet accounts are translated using exchange All share-based awards to employees are measured based on their fair values and expensed over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange Our financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis have been categorized based upon a fair value hierarchy. Level 1 inputs utilize quoted prices in Certain non-financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, including property, plant, and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets. These For acquisitions, we allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair We recognize all derivative instruments as assets or liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative A cash flow hedge refers to hedging the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk. For derivative instruments that are designated NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative instrument is recognized during the current period, as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item. operations. For instruments that meet the hedge accounting requirements, the net gains or losses attributable to changes in spot exchange rates are recorded in the foreign currency translation adjustment within AOCI, and are recorded in the income statement when the hedged item affects earnings. Adoption of New Accounting Standards obligation on their balance sheet for all leases with terms beyond twelve months. The new standard also requires enhanced disclosures that provide more transparency and information to financial statement users about lease portfolios. Effective January 1, 2019, we adopted the requirements of this ASU using the modified retrospective approach. We elected the transition package of practical expedients permitted within the standard. As a result, we did not reassess initial direct costs, lease classification, or whether our contracts contain or are leases. We also made an accounting policy election to not recognize right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases with an original lease term of twelve months or less, unless the leases include options to renew or purchase the underlying asset that are reasonably certain to be exercised. 2.7 billion. The consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are presented under the new standard, while earlier periods presented have not been adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the previous standard. See note 11 for additional disclosures required by this ASU. replaced the probable, incurred loss model for those assets. We adopted this standard on January 1, 2020 by updating our process for calculating our allowance for credit losses to include reasonable and supportable forecasts that could affect expected collectability. In 2020, we increased our allowance for credit losses by 45 million based upon our current forecasts that reflect ongoing economic uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. a hypothetical purchase price allocation. Under this ASU, goodwill impairment is the amount by which a reporting unit s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. We adopted this standard on January 1, 2020, applying the simplified approach to calculate the goodwill impairment charge of 494 million that we recorded in conjunction with the pending divestiture of UPS Freight. It did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. targeted improvements to simplify the application of hedge accounting guidance and increase transparency regarding the scope and results of hedging activities. We adopted this standard on January 1, 2019. It did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows but did require additional disclosures. See note 17 for disclosures required by this ASU. 2018, we early adopted this ASU and elected to reclassify the income tax effects of the Tax Act from AOCI to retained earnings. This resulted in a 735 million increase to retained earnings and a 735 million decrease to AOCI. Our current accounting policy for releasing income tax effects from other comprehensive income is based on a portfolio approach. October 1, 2020, we early adopted this ASU. It did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and lease The adoption on January 1, 2019 resulted in the recognition of right-of-use assets for operating leases of approximately 2.7 billion and operating lease liabilities of approximately In June 2016, the FASB issued an ASU introducing an expected credit loss methodology for the measurement of financial assets not accounted for at fair value. The methodology In January 2017, the FASB issued an ASU to simplify the accounting for goodwill impairment by eliminating the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill using In March 2017, the FASB issued an ASU requiring the premium on callable debt securities to be amortized to the earliest call date. We adopted this standard on January 1, 2019. In August 2017, the FASB issued an ASU to enhance recognition of the economic results of hedging activities in the financial statements. In addition, the update made certain In February 2018, the FASB issued an ASU that allows a reclassification from AOCI to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Act. Effective January 1, In December 2019, the FASB issued an ASU to simplify the accounting for income taxes. The update removes certain exceptions to the general income tax principles. Effective A fair value hedge refers to hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of an existing asset or liability that is attributable to a particular risk. For derivative instruments that A net investment hedge refers to the use of cross currency swaps, forward contracts or foreign currency denominated debt to hedge portions of net investments in foreign NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES standard provides optional expedients and exceptions for applying GAAP to contracts, hedging relationships and other transactions affected by reference rate reform. The guidance was effective upon issuance and generally can be applied through December 31, 2022. We are evaluating the potential impacts of reference rate reform on our various contractual positions to determine whether we may apply any of the practical expedients set forth in this standard. position, results of operations or cash flows. Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective operations or cash flows. In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-04, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848), to temporarily ease the potential burden in accounting for reference rate reform. The Other accounting pronouncements adopted during the periods covered by the consolidated financial statements did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial Accounting pronouncements issued, but not effective until after December 31, 2020, are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Revenue Recognition by or arranged by UPS, either domestically or internationally, which generally occurs over a short period of time. Additionally, we provide value-added logistics services to customers, both domestically and internationally, through our global network of company-owned and leased distribution centers and field stocking locations. Disaggregation of Revenue identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable. Performance Obligations determine the proper revenue recognition method for contracts, we evaluate whether two or more contracts should be combined and accounted for as a single contract, and whether the combined or single contract should be accounted for as more than one performance obligation. This evaluation requires judgment, and the decision to combine a group of contracts or separate the combined or single contract into multiple performance obligations could change the amount of revenue and profit recorded in a given period. Within most of our contracts, the customer contracts with us to provide distinct services, such as transportation services. The vast majority of our contracts with customers for transportation services include only one performance obligation the transportation services themselves. However, if a contract is separated into more than one performance obligation, we allocate the total transaction price to each performance obligation based on the estimated relative standalone selling prices of the promised goods or services underlying each performance obligation. We frequently sell standard transportation services with observable standalone sales prices. In these instances, the observable standalone sales are used to determine the standalone selling price. NOTE 2. REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue: Next Day Air 8,522 8,479 7,618 Deferred 5,665 5,180 4,752 Ground 39,312 32,834 31,223 Domestic 3,160 2,836 2,874 Export 12,159 10,837 10,973 Cargo & Other 626 547 595 Forwarding 6,975 5,867 6,580 Logistics 4,073 3,435 3,234 Freight 3,149 3,265 3,218 Other 987 814 794 Consolidated revenue 84,628 74,094 71,861 Substantially all of our revenues are from contracts associated with the pickup, transportation and delivery of packages and freight ( transportation services ), whether carried out We account for a contract when both parties have approved the contract and are committed to perform their obligations, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer, and is the basis of revenue recognition in accordance with GAAP. To U.S. Domestic Package 53,499 46,493 43,593 International Package 15,945 14,220 14,442 Supply Chain & Freight 15,184 13,381 13,826 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2020 2019 2018 Year Ended December 31, (even if that single capability results in the delivery of multiple units). Hence, the entire contract is accounted for as one performance obligation. In these cases we typically use the expected cost plus a margin approach to estimate the standalone selling price of each performance obligation. Satisfaction of Performance Obligations benefit of our services as the goods are transported from one location to another. Further, if we were unable to complete delivery to the final location, another entity would not need to reperform the transportation service already performed. progress towards completion requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services to be provided. We use the cost-to-cost measure of progress for our package delivery contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts. Under the cost-to-cost measure of progress, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation. Revenues, including ancillary or accessorial fees and reductions for estimated customer incentives, are recorded proportionally as costs are incurred. Costs to fulfill include labor and other direct costs and an allocation of indirect costs. For our freight and freight forwarding contracts, an output method of progress based on time-in-transit is utilized as the timing of costs incurred does not best depict the transfer of control to the customer. In our Logistics business we have a right to consideration from customers in an amount that corresponds directly with the value to the customers of our performance completed to date, and as such, we recognize revenue in the amount to which we have a right to invoice the customer. Variable Consideration variable amounts are generally dependent upon achievement of certain incentive tiers or performance metrics. We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled. We include estimated amounts of revenue, which may be reduced by incentives or other contract provisions, in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. Our estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based on an assessment of anticipated customer spending and all information (historical, current and forecasted) that is reasonably available to us. Contract Modifications the modification either creates new, or changes the existing, enforceable rights and obligations. Contract modifications that add additional distinct goods or services are treated as separate contracts. Contract modifications that do not add distinct goods or services typically change the price of existing services. These contract modifications are accounted for prospectively as the remaining performance obligations are distinct. Payment Terms for shipments included on invoices received. Invoices are generated each week on the week-ending day, which is Saturday for the majority of our U.S. Domestic Package business, but could be another day depending on the business unit or the specific agreement with the customer. It is not customary business practice to extend payment terms past 90 days, and as such, we do not have a practice of including a significant financing component within our contracts with customers. In certain business units, such as Logistics, we sell customized, customer-specific solutions in which we integrate a complex set of tasks and components into a single capability We generally recognize revenue over time as we perform the services in the contract because of the continuous transfer of control to the customer. Our customers receive the As control transfers over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. The selection of the method to measure It is common for our contracts to contain customer incentives, guaranteed service refunds or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. These Contracts are often modified to account for changes in the rates we charge our customers or to add additional distinct services. We consider contract modifications to exist when Under the typical payment terms of our customer contracts, the customer pays at periodic intervals, which are generally seven days within our U.S. Domestic Package business, NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Principal vs. Agent Considerations using a control model, whether our businesses themselves promise to transfer services to the customer (as the principal) or to arrange for services to be provided by another party (as the agent). Based on our evaluation of the control model, we determined that all of our major businesses act as the principal rather than the agent within their revenue arrangements. Revenue and the associated purchased transportation costs are both reported on a gross basis within our statements of consolidated income. Accounts Receivable, Net receivable are recognized when reasonable and supportable forecasts affect the expected collectability. This requires us to make our best estimate of the current expected losses inherent in our accounts receivable at each balance sheet date. These estimates require consideration of historical loss experience, adjusted for current conditions, forwarding-looking indicators, trends in customer payment frequency, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant observable data, including present and future economic conditions and the financial health of specific customers and market sectors. Our risk management process includes standards and policies for reviewing major account exposures and concentrations of risk. allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 was 138 and 93 million, respectively. Amounts for credit losses charged to expense before recoveries during the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were 254 and 194 million, respectively. Contract Assets and Liabilities been completed (i.e. packages have been delivered), and our right to payment is not solely based on the passage of time. Amounts may not exceed their net realizable value. Contract assets are generally classified as current and the full balance is converted each quarter based on the short-term nature of the transactions. payments received from our customers that will be earned over the contract term. Deferred revenue represents the amount of consideration due from customers related to in-transit shipments that has not yet been recognized as revenue based on our selected measure of progress. We classify advance payments and billings in excess of revenue as either current or long-term, depending on the period over which the advance payment will be earned. We classify deferred revenue as current based on the timing of when we expect to recognize revenue, which typically occurs within a short window after period-end. The full balance of deferred revenue is converted each quarter based on the short-term nature of the transactions. Our contract assets and liabilities are reported in a net position on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period. In order to determine revenue recognized in the period from contract liabilities, we first allocate revenue to the individual contract liability balance outstanding at the beginning of the period until the revenue exceeds that deferred revenue balance. 279 and 264 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Contract assets are included within "Other current assets" in the consolidated balance sheets. Short-term contract liabilities related to advance payments from customers were 21 and 7 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Short-term contract liabilities are included within "Other current liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheets. Long-term contract liabilities related to advance payments from customers were 26 million as of both December 31, 2020 and 2019. Long-term contract liabilities are included within "Other Non-Current Liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheets. In our transportation businesses, we utilize independent contractors and third-party carriers in the performance of some transportation services. GAAP requires us to evaluate, Accounts receivable, net, include amounts billed and currently due from customers. The amounts due are stated at their net estimated realizable value. Losses on accounts We increased our allowance for expected credit losses by 45 million during 2020 based upon current forecasts that anticipate a slight decline in the economic outlook. Our Contract assets include billed and unbilled amounts resulting from in-transit packages, as we have an unconditional right to payment only once all performance obligations have Contract liabilities consist of advance payments and billings in excess of revenue as well as deferred revenue. Advance payments and billings in excess of revenue represent Contract assets related to in-transit packages were 279 and 272 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, net of deferred revenue related to in-transit packages of NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2020 and 2019, respectively. of available-for-sale marketable securities in 2018. The gross realized losses on sales of available-for-sale marketable securities totaled 0, 2 and 4 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. NOTE 3. INVESTMENTS AND RESTRICTED CASH The gross realized gains on sales of available-for-sale marketable securities totaled 5 and 8 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. There were no gross realized gains on sales The following is a summary of marketable securities classified as trading and available-for-sale as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in millions): Total current marketable securities that were pledged as collateral for our self-insurance requirements had an estimated fair value of 404 and 389 million as of December 31, There were no material impairment losses recognized on marketable securities during 2020, 2019 or 2018. 2020 Current trading marketable securities: Total trading marketable securities 2 2 Current available-for-sale marketable securities: Total available-for-sale marketable securities 396 8 404 Total current marketable securities 398 8 406 2019 Current trading marketable securities: Total trading marketable securities 114 114 Current available-for-sale marketable securities: Total available-for-sale marketable securities 383 6 389 Total current marketable securities 497 6 503 Corporate debt securities Equity securities 2 2 U.S. government and agency debt securities 181 3 184 Mortgage and asset-backed debt securities 30 1 31 Corporate debt securities 174 4 178 Non-U.S. government debt securities 11 11 Corporate debt securities 112 112 Equity securities 2 2 U.S. government and agency debt securities 191 2 193 Mortgage and asset-backed debt securities 46 1 47 Corporate debt securities 130 3 133 Non-U.S. government debt securities 16 16 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Unrealized Gains Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Unrealized Losses Fair Value Fair Value Investment Impairments each issuer, the magnitude of the losses compared with the cost, the probability that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the security, the credit rating of the security and our ability and intent to hold these investments until the anticipated recovery in market value occurs. Unrealized Losses market interest rates. We have both the intent and ability to hold these securities for the time necessary to recover the cost basis. Maturity Information differ from contractual maturities because the issuers of the securities may have the right to prepay obligations with or without prepayment penalties. Non-Current Investments and Restricted Cash reflected in "Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash" in the statements of consolidated cash flows. In 2019 we fully liquidated our investment balance associated with this agreement and pledged the required collateral with a surety bond. For additional information on surety bonds written as of December 31, 2020, see note 9. Due in one year or less 27 27 Due after one year through three years 323 327 Due after three years through five years 10 10 Due after five years 36 40 Equity securities 2 2 Total marketable securities 47 1 48 U.S. government and agency debt securities 31 31 Mortgage and asset-backed debt securities 1 1 Corporate debt securities 16 16 Non-U.S. government debt securities We have concluded that no material impairment losses existed as of December 31, 2020. In making this determination, we considered the financial condition and prospects of The following table presents the age of gross unrealized losses and fair value by investment category for all securities in a loss position as of December 31, 2020 (in millions): The unrealized losses for the U.S. government and agency debt securities, mortgage and asset-backed debt securities, and corporate debt securities are primarily due to changes in The amortized cost and estimated fair value of marketable securities as of December 31, 2020, by contractual maturity, are shown below (in millions). Actual maturities may We previously held various marketable securities and cash equivalents as collateral under an escrow agreement to guarantee our self-insurance obligations which were NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Less Than 12 Months 12 Months or More Total 398 406 Estimated Fair Value respectively. The change in investment fair value is recognized in "Investment income (expense) and other" in the statements of consolidated income. Additionally, we held escrowed cash related to the acquisition and disposition of certain assets of 2 and 3 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. These amounts are classified as Investments and Restricted Cash in the consolidated balance sheets. Fair Value Measurements securities all have quoted prices in active markets. Marketable securities valued utilizing Level 2 inputs include asset-backed securities, corporate bonds and municipal bonds. These securities are valued using market corroborated pricing, matrix pricing or other models that utilize observable inputs such as yield curves. Cash and cash equivalents 5,910 5,238 4,225 Restricted cash 142 Total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 5,910 5,238 4,367 We held a 23 and 21 million investment in a variable life insurance policy to fund benefits for the UPS Excess Coordinating Benefit Plan as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, A reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash from the consolidated balance sheets to the statements of consolidated cash flows is shown below (in millions): Marketable securities valued utilizing Level 1 inputs include active exchange-traded equity securities and equity index funds, and most U.S. government debt securities, as these NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 hierarchy of the valuation techniques utilized to determine such fair value (in millions): The following table presents information about our investments measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and indicates the fair value There were no transfers of investments between Level 1 and Level 2 during 2020 or 2019. 2020 Marketable Securities: Other non-current investments 23 23 2019 Marketable Securities: Other non-current investments 21 1 22 U.S. government and agency debt securities 184 184 Mortgage and asset-backed debt securities 31 31 Corporate debt securities 178 178 Equity securities 2 2 Non-U.S. government debt securities 11 11 U.S. government and agency debt securities 193 193 Mortgage and asset-backed debt securities 47 47 Corporate debt securities 245 245 Equity securities 2 2 Non-U.S. government debt securities 16 16 Total marketable securities 184 222 406 Total 207 222 429 Total marketable securities 193 310 503 Total 214 310 1 525 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Active Markets Active Markets for Identical for Identical Quoted Prices in Quoted Prices in Assets (Level 1) Observable Inputs Significant Other Observable Significant Other Inputs (Level 2) Unobservable Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) Total Inputs (Level 3) Total Significant Significant adjustments. The following table summarizes the carrying values of the assets and liabilities classified as held for sale in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020 (in millions): by us at closing and are not included in the amounts presented above. of a goodwill impairment charge of 494 million and a valuation allowance to adjust the carrying value of the disposal group to fair value less cost to sell of 192 million. NOTE 4. ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Total assets held for sale 1,197 Liabilities: Total liabilities to be disposed of 347 Net assets held for sale 850 Accounts receivable, net 263 Other current assets 62 Property, plant and equipment, net 940 Other non-current assets 124 Valuation allowance (192) Accounts payable 50 Other current liabilities 112 Other non-current liabilities 185 On January 24, 2021, we entered into a definitive agreement to divest our UPS Freight business to TFI International Inc. for 800 million, subject to working capital and other Self-insurance reserves for the UPS Freight business and obligations for benefits earned within UPS-sponsored pension and postretirement medical benefit plans will be retained Upon classification as held for sale, we recognized a total impairment charge of 686 million within Other expenses in the statements of consolidated income. This was comprised We expect the transaction, which is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals, to close during the second quarter of 2021. Total assets 1,389 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES property, plant and equipment categories for any indicators that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. There were no material impairment charges during the years ended December 31, 2020 or 2019. Vehicles 9,786 10,613 Aircraft 20,549 19,045 Land 2,052 2,087 Buildings 5,425 5,046 Building and leasehold improvements 4,921 4,898 Plant equipment 14,684 13,849 Technology equipment 2,626 2,206 Construction-in-progress 2,048 1,983 Less: Accumulated depreciation and amortization (29,837) (29,245) Property, Plant and Equipment, Net 32,254 30,482 NOTE 5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment purchased on account was 319 and 372 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We continually monitor our aircraft fleet utilization in light of current and projected volume levels, aviation fuel prices and other factors. Additionally, we monitor all other Property, plant and equipment, including both owned assets as well as assets subject to finance leases, consists of the following as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in millions): NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 62,091 59,727 U.S. Pension Benefits Plan and the UPS Excess Coordinating Benefit Plan, a non-qualified plan. members of a collective bargaining unit, as well as certain employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement. This plan generally provides for retirement benefits based on average compensation earned by employees prior to retirement. Benefits payable under this plan are subject to maximum compensation limits and the annual benefit limits for a tax- qualified defined benefit plan as prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ). participate in the plan. This plan generally provides for retirement benefits based on service credits earned by employees prior to retirement. multiemployer pension plan, in addition to other eligible employees who are covered under certain collective bargaining agreements. This plan generally provides for retirement benefits based on service credits earned by employees prior to retirement. amounts that exceed the benefit limits described above. service and compensation for non-union participants effective January 1, 2023. former employees accepted this option, accelerating 820 million in benefit payments during 2019 while reducing the number of participants who are due future payments from U.S. pension plans. As the cost of these settlements did not exceed the plans' service cost and interest cost for the year, the impact of the settlement was not recognized in earnings. may be subject to remeasurement of plan assets and pension benefit obligations. International Pension Benefits Canada and the United Kingdom. In addition, many of our international employees are covered by government-sponsored retirement and pension plans. We are not directly responsible for providing benefits to participants of government-sponsored plans. NOTE 6. COMPANY-SPONSORED EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS We sponsor various retirement and pension plans, including defined benefit and defined contribution plans which cover our employees worldwide. In the U.S. we maintain the following single-employer defined benefit pension plans: the UPS Retirement Plan, the UPS Pension Plan, the UPS IBT Full-Time Employee Pension The UPS Retirement Plan is noncontributory and includes substantially all eligible employees of participating domestic subsidiaries hired prior to July 1, 2016 who are not The UPS Pension Plan is noncontributory and includes certain eligible employees of participating domestic subsidiaries and members of collective bargaining units that elect to The UPS IBT Full-Time Employee Pension Plan is noncontributory and includes employees that were previously members of the Central States Pension Fund ("CSPF"), a The UPS Excess Coordinating Benefit Plan is a non-qualified plan that provides benefits to certain participants in the UPS Retirement Plan, hired prior to July 1, 2016, for In the year ended December 31, 2017, we amended the UPS Retirement Plan and the UPS Excess Coordinating Benefit Plan to cease accruals of additional benefits for future During the fourth quarter of 2019, certain former U.S. employees were offered the option to receive a one-time payment of their vested pension benefit. Approximately 18,800 On January 24, 2021, we entered into a definitive agreement to divest our UPS Freight business as discussed in note 4. Upon closing, our U.S. pension and postretirement plans We also sponsor various defined benefit plans covering certain of our international employees. The majority of our international obligations are for defined benefit plans in NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES U.S. Postretirement Medical Benefits requirements and who are not otherwise covered by multiemployer plans. Generally, this includes employees with at least 10 years of service who have reached age 55 and employees who are eligible for postretirement medical benefits from a Company-sponsored plan pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. We have the right to modify or terminate certain of these plans. These benefits have been provided to certain retirees on a noncontributory basis however, in many cases, retirees are required to contribute all or a portion of the total cost of the coverage. Defined Contribution Plans covered under collective bargaining agreements. We match, in shares of UPS common stock or cash, a portion of the participating employees contributions. Matching contributions charged to expense were 139, 130 and 127 million for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. eligible pay to the UPS 401(k) Savings Plan based on years of vesting service and business unit. Contributions under this plan are subject to maximum compensation and contribution limits for a tax-qualified defined contribution plan as prescribed by the IRS. Contributions charged to expense were 84, 67 and 28 million for 2020, 2019 and 2018 respectively. to current benefits under the UPS 401(k) Savings Plan, earn a retirement contribution beginning January 1, 2023. UPS will contribute 5% to 8% of eligible compensation to the UPS 401(k) Savings Plan based on years of vesting service. The amendment also provides for transition contributions for certain participants. There was no impact to the statements of consolidated income for 2020, 2019 and 2018 as a result of this change. described above. million for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Net Periodic Benefit Cost U.S. Pension Benefits 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 Net Periodic Benefit Cost: Service cost 1,853 1,439 1,661 29 23 29 67 57 62 Interest cost 1,977 2,067 1,799 91 108 104 40 47 45 Expected return on plan assets (3,549) (3,130) (3,201) (8) (8) (8) (86) (76) (77) Amortization of prior service cost 218 218 193 7 7 7 2 2 1 Actuarial (gain) loss 6,211 2,296 1,603 246 37 27 54 24 Curtailment and settlement loss Net periodic benefit cost 6,710 2,890 2,055 365 167 132 50 84 55 We also sponsor postretirement medical plans in the U.S. that provide healthcare benefits to our non-union retirees, as well as select union retirees who meet certain eligibility We sponsor a defined contribution plan for employees not covered under collective bargaining agreements, and several smaller defined contribution plans for certain employees In addition to current benefits under the UPS 401(k) Savings Plan, non-union employees hired after July 1, 2016, receive a retirement contribution. UPS contributes 3% to 8% of Effective June 23, 2017, the Company amended the UPS 401(k) Savings Plan so that non-union employees who currently participate in the UPS Retirement Plan will, in addition The UPS Restoration Savings Plan is a non-qualified plan that provides benefits to certain participants in the UPS 401(k) Savings Plan for amounts that exceed the benefit limits Contributions are also made to defined contribution money purchase plans under certain collective bargaining agreements. Amounts charged to expense were 107, 97 and 92 Information about net periodic benefit cost for the company-sponsored pension and postretirement defined benefit plans is as follows (in millions): NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES U.S. Postretirement Medical Benefits Pension Benefits International Actuarial Assumptions a bond matching approach to select specific bonds that would satisfy our projected benefit payments. We believe the bond matching approach reflects the process we would employ to settle our pension and postretirement benefit obligations. In 2019, we refined the bond matching approach used to determine the discount rate for our U.S. pension and postretirement plans. Following a routine, periodic review of their standard bond matching tool which we reference to support discount rates, our external consultants refined their model to reflect the increased availability of longer duration high-quality corporate bonds, changes in the content and sources of available data and improvements in computational capabilities. We believe these refinements enhance the simulation of bond portfolios that match the plans' expected cash flows and result in a better estimate of the plan discount rates. These refinements resulted in an increase of approximately 10 basis points in the discount rates used to measure our plans, decreasing the total projected benefit obligation in our consolidated balance sheet at the December 31, 2019 measurement date by approximately 900 million and the resulting pre-tax mark-to-market charge within Other income and (expense) in our statements of consolidated income by approximately 810 million, and increasing net income by 616 million, or 0.71 per share on a basic and diluted basis. For our international plans, the discount rate is determined by matching the expected cash flows of the plan, where available, or of a sample plan of similar duration, to a yield curve based on long-term, high quality fixed income debt instruments available as of the measurement date. These assumptions are updated each measurement date, which is typically annually. as follows (in millions): SOA published an updated improvement scale which reduced expected mortality improvements from previously published improvement scales. Based on our perspective of future longevity, we updated the mortality assumptions to incorporate the improvement scale for purposes of measuring pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. U.S. Pension Benefits 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 Service cost discount rate 3.60 % 4.50 % 3.84 % 3.59 % 4.51 % 3.82 % 3.01 % 3.58 % 3.35 % Interest cost discount rate 3.60 % 4.50 % 3.84 % 3.59 % 4.51 % 3.82 % 2.67 % 3.25 % 3.01 % Rate of compensation increase 4.22 % 4.25 % 4.25 % N A N A N A 3.00 % 3.24 % 3.22 % Expected return on plan assets 7.77 % 7.75 % 7.75 % 7.20 % 7.20 % 7.20 % 5.55 % 5.69 % 5.76 % Cash balance interest credit rate 2.50 % 2.98 % 2.50 % N A N A N A 2.59 % 3.17 % 3.07 % U.S. Pension Benefits 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 Discount rate 2.90 % 3.60 % 2.88 % 3.59 % 1.94 % 2.21 % Rate of compensation increase 4.21 % 4.22 % N A N A 2.93 % 3.00 % Cash balance interest credit rate 2.50 % 2.50 % N A N A 2.74 % 2.59 % Increase (Decrease) in the Projected Benefit Obligation Pension Benefits Postretirement Medical Benefits One basis point increase in discount rate (110) (2) One basis point decrease in discount rate 118 3 A discount rate is used to determine the present value of our future benefit obligations. To determine the discount rate for our U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans, we use As of December 31, 2020, the impact of each basis point change in the discount rate on the projected benefit obligation of our pension and postretirement medical benefit plans is The Society of Actuaries ("SOA") published mortality tables and improvement scales are used in developing the best estimate of mortality for our U.S. plans. In October 2020, the The table below provides the weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine the net periodic benefit cost: The table below provides the weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations of our plans: NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES U.S. Postretirement Medical Benefits U.S. Postretirement Medical Benefits Pension Benefits International Pension Benefits International using a long-term projection of returns for each asset class. Our asset allocation targets are reviewed and, if necessary, updated taking into consideration plan changes, funded status and actual performance. The expected return for each asset class is a function of passive, long-term capital market assumptions and excess returns generated from active management. The capital market assumptions used are provided by independent investment advisors, while excess return assumptions are supported by historical performance, fund mandates and investment expectations. liabilities and considering the demographic composition of the plan participants. Actuarial Assumptions - Central States Pension Fund billion withdrawal liability. Under a collective bargaining agreement with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters ( IBT ), UPS agreed to provide coordinating benefits in the UPS IBT Full Time Employee Pension Plan ( UPS IBT Plan ) for UPS participants whose last employer was UPS and who had not retired as of January 1, 2008 ( the UPS Transfer Group ) in the event that benefits are lawfully reduced by the CSPF in the future consistent with the terms of our withdrawal agreement with the CSPF. payments to retirees, subject to specific guidelines in the statute and government approval. In 2015, the CSPF submitted a proposed pension benefit reduction plan to the U.S. Department of the Treasury ( Treasury ). In 2016, Treasury rejected the proposed plan submitted by the CSPF. In 2018, Congress established a Joint Select Committee to develop a recommendation to improve the solvency of multiemployer plans and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ( PBGC ) before a November 30, 2018 deadline. While the Committee s efforts failed to meet its deadline, the Committee made significant progress towards finding solutions that would address the long term solvency of multiemployer pension plans. In 2019, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions Act of 2019 to provide assistance to critical and declining multiemployer pension plans. Additionally, in 2020, the U.S. House of Representatives passed two versions of the Health and Economic Recovery Omnibus Emergency Solutions Act ("HEROES Act"), which would provide financial support to those same plans. These bills remain with the U.S. Senate for consideration. UPS continues to work with all stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, to implement an acceptable solution. options to avoid insolvency. Numerous factors could affect the CSPF s funded status and UPS s potential obligation to pay coordinating benefits under the UPS IBT Plan, including whether the CSPF submits a revised benefit reduction plan under MPRA and the terms thereof, or whether it otherwise seeks federal government assistance, as well as the terms of any applicable legislation, the extent to which benefits are paid by the PBGC and our ability to successfully defend legal positions we may take in the future under the MPRA, including the suspension ordering provisions, our withdrawal agreement and other applicable law. Benefits ( ASC 715 ), which requires us to provide a best estimate of various actuarial assumptions, including the eventual outcome of this matter, in measuring our pension benefit obligation at the December 31st measurement date. While we currently believe the most likely outcome to this matter and the broader systemic problems facing multiemployer pension plans is intervention by the federal government, ASC 715 does not permit anticipation of changes in law in making a best estimate of pension liabilities. As such, our best estimate in accordance with ASC 715 at the December 31, 2020 measurement date is that the CSPF can no longer submit and implement another benefit reduction plan under the MPRA. UPS was a contributing employer to the CSPF until 2007 when we withdrew from the CSPF and fully funded our allocable share of unfunded vested benefits by paying a 6.1 Under our withdrawal agreement with the CSPF, benefits to the UPS Transfer Group cannot be reduced without our consent and can only be reduced in accordance with applicable The CSPF has said that it believes a legislative solution to its funded status is necessary or that it will become insolvent in 2025. We expect that the CSPF will continue to explore We account for the potential obligation to pay coordinating benefits to the UPS Transfer Group under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 715- Compensation- Retirement Assumptions for the expected return on plan assets are used to determine a component of net periodic benefit cost for the year. The assumption for our U.S. plans is developed For plans outside the U.S., consideration is given to local market expectations of long-term returns. Strategic asset allocations are determined by plan, based on the nature of In 2014, Congress passed the Multiemployer Pension Reform Act ( MPRA ). This change in law for the first time permitted multiemployer pension plans to reduce benefit NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES payment of guaranteed benefits by the PBGC and the absence of a benefit reduction plan under MPRA having been filed by the CSPF. As a result, at the December 31, 2020 measurement date, the best estimate of our projected benefit obligation for coordinating benefits that may be required to be directly provided by the UPS IBT Plan to the UPS Transfer Group increased by 2.3 billion. Since 2018, we have recorded 4.9 billion for coordinating benefits that the UPS IBT Plan may be required to pay. At the December 31, 2020 measurement date, discount rate changes increased this liability to 5.5 billion. rate of return on assets and other actuarial assumptions, the ability of the PBGC to sustain its commitments, as well as potential solutions resulting from federal government intervention. Any such event may result in a decrease or an increase in the best estimate of our projected benefit obligation. If a future change in law occurs, it may be a significant event requiring an interim remeasurement of the UPS IBT Plan at the date the law is enacted. We will continue to assess the impact of these uncertainties on our projected benefit obligation in accordance with ASC 715. Other Actuarial Assumptions costs were forecasted assuming an initial annual rate of increase of 6.5%, decreasing to 4.5% by the year 2029 and with consistent annual increases at that ultimate level thereafter. Funded Status obligation for our postretirement medical benefit plans as of the measurement dates in 2020 and 2019 was 2.8 and 2.6 billion, respectively. contributions) under the postretirement medical benefit plans include 77 and 82 million paid from employer assets in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Such benefit payments from employer assets are also categorized as employer contributions. U.S. Pension Benefits 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 Funded Status: Fair value of plan assets 52,997 46,172 49 37 1,835 1,558 Benefit obligation (65,922) (54,039) (2,759) (2,616) (2,177) (1,906) Funded status (12,925) (7,867) (2,710) (2,579) (342) (348) Funded Status Recognized in our Balance Sheet: Other non-current assets 51 34 Other current liabilities (22) (22) (184) (200) (5) (5) Pension and postretirement benefit obligations (12,903) (7,845) (2,526) (2,379) (388) (377) Net liability (12,925) (7,867) (2,710) (2,579) (342) (348) Amounts Recognized in AOCI: Unrecognized net prior service cost (753) (800) (9) (16) (11) (12) Unrecognized net actuarial gain (loss) (6,592) (5,404) (276) (240) (151) (162) Gross unrecognized cost (7,345) (6,204) (285) (256) (162) (174) Deferred tax assets (liabilities) 1,770 1,497 69 62 38 40 Net unrecognized cost (5,575) (4,707) (216) (194) (124) (134) We developed our best estimate using a deterministic cash flow projection that reflects updated estimated CSPF cash flows and investment earnings, the lack of legislative action, The future value of this estimate will be influenced by a number of factors, including the terms and timing of any benefit reduction plan under MPRA, changes in our discount rate, Healthcare cost trends are used to project future postretirement medical benefits payable from our plans. For 2020 U.S. plan obligations, future postretirement medical benefit The following table discloses the funded status of our plans and the amounts recognized in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31 (in millions): The accumulated benefit obligation for our pension plans as of the measurement dates in 2020 and 2019 was 66.9 and 55.0 billion, respectively. The accumulated benefit Benefit payments under the pension plans include 26 and 27 million paid from employer assets in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Benefit payments (net of participant NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES U.S. Postretirement Medical Benefits Pension Benefits International in excess of plan assets were as follows (in millions): U.S. Pension Benefits: Projected benefit obligation 65,922 54,039 65,922 54,039 Accumulated benefit obligation 64,937 53,194 64,937 53,194 Fair value of plan assets 52,997 46,172 52,997 46,172 International Pension Benefits: Projected benefit obligation 845 1,319 845 1,319 Accumulated benefit obligation 728 1,210 728 1,210 Fair value of plan assets 452 948 452 948 As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the projected benefit obligation, the accumulated benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets for pension plans with benefit obligations The accumulated postretirement benefit obligation presented in the funded status table exceeds plan assets for all U.S. postretirement medical benefit plans. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Exceeds the Fair Value of Plan Assets 2020 2019 2020 2019 Projected Benefit Obligation Exceeds the Fair Value of Plan Assets Accumulated Benefit Obligation Benefit Obligations and Fair Value of Plan Assets millions): 2020 - 10.1 billion pre-tax actuarial loss related to benefit obligation: beginning of year 54,039 45,333 2,616 2,510 1,906 1,552 year 65,922 54,039 2,759 2,616 2,177 1,906 year 46,172 39,554 37 26 1,558 1,284 Discount Rates ( 7.3 billion pre-tax loss): The weighted-average discount rate for our pension and postretirement medical plans decreased from 3.55% as of December 31, 2019 to 2.87% as of December 31, 2020, primarily due to a decline in U.S. treasury yields that was slightly offset by an increase in credit spreads on AA-rated corporate bonds. Coordinating benefits attributable to the Central States Pension Fund ( 2.3 billion pre-tax loss): This represents our current best estimate of additional potential coordinating benefits that may be required to be paid related to the Central States Pension Fund before taking into account the impact of the change in discount rates. Demographic and Assumption Changes ( 513 million pre-tax loss): This represents the difference between actual and estimated participant data and demographic factors, including items such as healthcare cost trends, compensation changes, rates of termination, retirement, mortality and other changes. The following tables provide a reconciliation of the changes in the plans benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets as of the respective measurement dates in each year (in U.S. Pension Benefits 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 Benefit Obligations: Projected benefit obligation at Service cost 1,853 1,439 29 23 67 57 Interest cost 1,977 2,067 91 108 40 47 Gross benefits paid (1,846) (2,394) (274) (288) (38) (40) Plan participants contributions 32 30 3 3 Plan amendments 171 1 1 Actuarial (gain) loss 9,728 7,594 265 233 123 213 Foreign currency exchange rate changes 80 47 Curtailments and settlements (6) (2) Other 1 28 Projected benefit obligation at end of U.S. Pension Benefits 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 Fair Value of Plan Assets: Fair value of plan assets at beginning of Actual return on plan assets 5,878 6,991 (9) (5) 184 171 Employer contributions 2,793 2,021 263 274 69 67 Plan participants contributions 32 30 3 3 Gross benefits paid (1,846) (2,394) (274) (288) (38) (40) Foreign currency exchange rate changes 62 49 Curtailments and settlements (3) (2) Other 26 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 52,997 46,172 49 37 1,835 1,558 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Medical Benefits Medical Benefits U.S. Postretirement U.S. Postretirement Pension Benefits Pension Benefits International International 2019 - 8.0 billion pre-tax actuarial loss related to benefit obligation: Pension and Postretirement Plan Assets investment managers. The investment guidelines address items such as establishing appropriate governance provisions defining investment objectives determining strategic asset allocation monitoring and reporting the investments on a regular basis appointing dismissing investment managers, custodians, consultants and advisors risk management determining defining the mandates for investment managers rebalancing of assets and determining investment restrictions prohibited investments. of long-term growth of capital given prudent levels of risk exposure while minimizing permanent loss of capital. To meet this objective, investment managers are engaged to actively manage assets within the guidelines and strategies set forth by the Investment Committee. Active managers are monitored regularly and their performance is compared to applicable benchmarks. Fair Value Measurements for those securities traded on national stock exchanges, while securities traded in the over-the-counter market and listed securities for which no sale was reported on the valuation date are valued at the mean between the last reported bid and ask prices. securities that are valued based on cash flow and yield models using acceptable modeling and pricing conventions and certain investments that are pooled with other investments in a commingled fund. We value our investments in commingled funds by taking the percentage ownership of the underlying assets, each of which has a readily determinable fair value. Discount Rates ( 7.5 billion pre-tax loss): The weighted-average discount rate for our pension and postretirement medical plans decreased from 4.45% as of December 31, 2018 to 3.55% as of December 31, 2019, primarily due to both a decline in U.S. treasury yields and a decrease in credit spreads on AA-rated corporate bonds. This was partially offset by a refinement to the bond matching approach used to determine the discount rate for our U.S. pension and postretirement plans discussed above. Coordinating benefits attributable to the Central States Pension Fund ( 603 million pre-tax loss): This represents our current best estimate of additional potential coordinating benefits that may be required to be paid related to the Central States Pension Fund before taking into account the impact of the change in discount rates. Demographic and Assumption Changes ( 40 million pre-tax gain): This represents the difference between actual and estimated participant data and demographic factors, including items such as healthcare cost trends, compensation changes, rates of termination, retirement, mortality and other changes. Under the governance of plan trustees, the Investment Committee establishes investment guidelines and strategies and regularly monitors the performance of investments and Plan assets are invested in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. The primary long-term investment objective for pension assets is to provide for a reasonable amount Plan assets valued utilizing Level 1 inputs include equity investments, corporate debt instruments and U.S. government securities. Fair values were determined by closing prices Level 2 assets include certain bonds that are valued based on yields currently available on comparable securities of other issues with similar credit ratings mortgage-backed Fair value estimates for certain investments are based on unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by observable market data and are thus classified as Level 3. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES principles, are valued using NAV as a practical expedient. These investments are not classified in Levels 1, 2, or 3 of the fair value hierarchy but instead included within the subtotals by asset category. Such investments include hedge funds, risk parity funds, real estate investments, private debt and private equity funds. Investments in hedge funds and risk parity funds are valued using the reported NAV as of December 31st. Real estate investments, private debt and private equity funds are valued at NAV per the most recent partnership audited financial reports, and adjusted, as appropriate, for investment activity between the date of the financial reports and December 31st. Due to the inherent limitations in obtaining a readily determinable fair value measurement for alternative investments, the fair values reported may differ from the values that would have been used had readily available market information for the alternative investments existed. These investments are described further below: Hedge Funds: Plan assets are invested in hedge funds that pursue multiple strategies to diversify risk and reduce volatility. Most of these hedge funds allow redemptions either quarterly or semi-annually after a two to three month notice period, while others allow for redemption after only a brief notification period with no restriction on redemption frequency. No unfunded commitments existed with respect to hedge funds as of December 31, 2020. Risk Parity Funds: Plan assets are invested in risk parity strategies in order to provide diversification and balance risk return objectives. These strategies reflect a multi-asset class balanced risk approach generally consisting of equity, interest rates, credit and commodities. These funds allow for monthly redemptions with only a brief notification period. No unfunded commitments existed with respect to risk parity funds as of December 31, 2020. Real Estate, Private Debt and Private Equity Funds: Plan assets are invested in limited partnership interests in various private equity, private debt and real estate funds. Limited provision exists for the redemption of these interests by the limited partners that invest in these funds until the end of the term of the partnerships, typically ranging between 10 and 15 years from the date of inception. An active secondary market exists for similar partnership interests, although no particular value (discount or premium) can be guaranteed. As of December 31, 2020, unfunded commitments to such limited partnerships totaling approximately 3.3 billion are expected to be contributed over the remaining investment period, typically ranging between three and six years. Investments that do not have a readily determinable fair value, and which provide a net asset value ("NAV") or its equivalent developed consistent with FASB measurement NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES percentage that each category comprises of our total plan assets and the respective target allocations: Certain investments that are measured at fair value using the NAV per share (or its equivalent) practical expedient have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy but are included in the category totals. Represents mortgage and asset-backed securities. The fair values of U.S. and international pension and postretirement benefit plan assets by asset category as of December 31, 2020 are presented below (in millions), as well as the Asset Category (U.S. Plans): Cash and cash equivalents 1,593 1,510 83 3.0 % 1-5 Equity Securities: Fixed Income Securities: Other Investments: Total U.S. Plan Assets 53,046 28,212 16,922 3 100.0 % Asset Category (International Cash and cash equivalents 84 45 39 4.6 1-10 Equity Securities: Fixed Income Securities: Other Investments: Total International Plan Assets 1,835 443 1,261 62 100.0 % Total Plan Assets 54,881 28,655 18,183 65 U.S. Large Cap 8,294 4,272 4,022 U.S. Small Cap 370 370 Emerging Markets 2,106 1,503 603 Global Equity 3,940 3,624 316 International Equity 4,335 2,043 2,292 U.S. Government Securities 16,145 14,646 1,499 Corporate Bonds 6,146 6,143 3 Global Bonds 42 42 Municipal Bonds 27 27 Hedge Funds 3,518 1,652 6.6 5-15 Private Equity 3,424 6.5 1-10 Private Debt 695 1.3 1-10 Real Estate 1,986 244 82 3.7 1-10 Structured Products 161 161 0.3 1-5 Risk Parity Funds 264 0.5 1-10 Local Markets Equity 214 214 U.S. Equity 59 59 Emerging Markets 55 41 14 International Global Equity 534 210 324 Local Government Bonds 102 102 Corporate Bonds 215 22 193 Global Bonds 125 125 Real Estate 154 80 21 8.3 5-10 Other 293 236 41 16.0 1-20 Total Equity Securities 19,045 11,812 7,233 35.9 25-55 Total Fixed Income Securities 22,360 14,646 7,711 3 42.2 35-55 Total Equity Securities 862 251 611 47.0 25-55 Total Fixed Income Securities 442 147 295 24.1 20-40 Assets Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Plan Assets Percentage of Allocation Certain investments that are measured at fair value using the NAV per share (or its equivalent) practical expedient have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy but are included in the category totals. Represents mortgage and asset-backed securities. percentage that each category comprises of our total plan assets and the respective target allocations: The fair values of U.S. and international pension and postretirement benefit plan assets by asset category as of December 31, 2019 are presented below (in millions), as well as the Asset Category (U.S. Plans): Cash and cash equivalents 964 818 146 2.1 % 1-5 Equity Securities: Fixed Income Securities: Securities 19,202 12,980 6,222 41.5 35-55 Other Investments: Total U.S. Plan Assets 46,209 23,787 14,769 100.0 % Asset Category (International Cash and cash equivalents 72 32 40 4.6 1-10 Equity Securities: Fixed Income Securities: Securities 381 130 251 24.5 25-45 Other Investments: Total International Plan Assets 1,558 374 1,107 12 100.0 % Total Plan Assets 47,767 24,161 15,876 12 U.S. Large Cap 6,607 2,889 3,718 U.S. Small Cap 505 376 129 Emerging Markets 2,039 1,523 516 Global Equity 2,892 2,553 339 International Equity 4,591 2,499 2,092 U.S. Government Securities 14,077 12,980 1,097 Corporate Bonds 5,051 5,051 Global Bonds 50 50 Municipal Bonds 24 24 Hedge Funds 3,273 1,380 7.1 5-15 Private Equity 3,030 6.6 1-10 Private Debt 772 1.7 1-10 Real Estate 1,940 149 74 4.2 1-10 Structured Products 153 153 0.3 1-5 Risk Parity Funds 241 0.5 1-10 Local Markets Equity 209 209 U.S. Equity 47 47 Emerging Markets 33 33 International Global Equity 441 179 262 Local Government Bonds 94 94 Corporate Bonds 177 20 157 Global Bonds 110 110 Real Estate 128 80 8.2 5-10 Other 247 218 12 15.9 1-20 Total Equity Securities 16,634 9,840 6,794 36.0 25-55 Total Fixed Income Total Equity Securities 730 212 518 46.8 30-60 Total Fixed Income Assets Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Plan Assets Percentage of Allocation Expected Cash Flows to plan participants, as applicable. International plans will be funded in accordance with local regulations. Additional discretionary contributions may be made when deemed appropriate to meet the long-term obligations of the plans. Expected benefit payments for pensions will be primarily paid from plan trusts. Expected benefit payments for postretirement medical benefits will be paid from plan trusts and corporate assets. Balance on January 1, 2019 2 4 6 Actual Return on Assets: Purchases 4 7 11 Sales (2) (2) Transfers Into (Out of) Level 3 Balance on December 31, 2019 12 12 Actual Return on Assets: Purchases 10 51 61 Sales (2) (4) (6) Transfers Into (Out of) Level 3 Balance on December 31, 2020 3 62 65 Expected Employer Contributions: 2021 to plan trusts 186 66 2021 to plan participants 23 70 6 Expected Benefit Payments: Assets Held at End of Year 1 1 Assets Sold During the Year (4) (4) Assets Held at End of Year 3 3 Assets Sold During the Year (5) (5) 2021 1,758 236 37 2022 1,892 227 42 2023 2,022 216 47 2024 2,156 205 54 2025 2,395 195 60 2026 - 2030 14,745 831 406 Our funding policy for U.S. plans is to contribute amounts annually that are at least equal to the amounts required by applicable laws and regulations, or to directly fund payments The following table presents the changes in the Level 3 instruments measured on a recurring basis for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in millions): There were no shares of UPS class A or B common stock directly held in plan assets as of December 31, 2020 or 2019. Information about expected cash flows for the pension and postretirement medical benefit plans is as follows (in millions): NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Corporate Bonds Other Total Pension Benefits U.S. Postretirement Medical Benefits International Pension Benefits generally provide for retirement, death and or termination benefits for eligible employees within the applicable collective bargaining units, based on specific eligibility participation requirements, vesting periods and benefit formulas. The risks of participating in multiemployer plans are different from single-employer plans in the following respects: plans. As part of the overall collective bargaining process for wage and benefit levels, we have agreed to contribute certain amounts to the multiemployer benefit plans during the contract period. The multiemployer benefit plans set benefit levels and are responsible for benefit delivery to participants. Future contribution amounts to multiemployer benefit plans are determined only through collective bargaining, and we have no additional legal or constructive obligation to increase contributions beyond the agreed-upon amounts (except potential surcharges under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 described above). comparability of 2020, 2019 and 2018 contributions. We recognize expense for the contractually-required contribution for each period, and we recognize a liability for any contributions due and unpaid at the end of a reporting period. Status of Collective Bargaining Agreements affiliated with the Teamsters, of which approximately 11,000 are employees of UPS Freight. These agreements run through July 31, 2023. agreement becomes amendable September 1, 2023. In addition, approximately 3,400 of our auto and maintenance mechanics who are not employed under agreements with the Teamsters are employed under collective bargaining agreements with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers ("IAM"). The collective bargaining agreement with the IAM runs through July 31, 2024. NOTE 7. MULTIEMPLOYER EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS Assets contributed to a multiemployer plan by one employer may be used to provide benefits to employees of other participating employers. If we negotiate to cease participating in a multiemployer plan, we may be required to pay that plan an amount based on our allocable share of its underfunded status, referred to as a "withdrawal liability". However, cessation of participation in a multiemployer plan and subsequent payment of any withdrawal liability is subject to the collective bargaining process. If any of the multiemployer pension plans in which we participate enter critical status, and our contributions are not sufficient to satisfy any rehabilitation plan funding schedule, we could be required under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 to make additional surcharge contributions to the multiemployer pension plan in the amount of five to ten percent of the existing contributions required by our labor agreement. Such surcharges would cease upon the ratification of a new collective bargaining agreement, and could not recur unless a plan re-entered critical status at a later date. We contribute to a number of multiemployer defined benefit plans under the terms of collective bargaining agreements that cover our union-represented employees. These plans The discussion that follows sets forth the financial impact on our results of operations and cash flows for 2020, 2019 and 2018, from our participation in multiemployer benefit The number of employees covered by our multiemployer pension plans has increased with the growth in our business. There have been no other significant changes that affect the As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 327,000 employees employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions We have approximately 3,000 pilots who are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the Independent Pilots Association ("IPA"). This collective bargaining We have approximately 1,600 airline mechanics who are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with Teamsters Local 2727 which becomes amendable November 1, 2023. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Multiemployer Pension Plans The EIN Pension Plan Number column provides the Employer Identification Number ( EIN ) and the three-digit plan number. The most recent Pension Protection Act zone status available in 2020 and 2019 relates to the plans two most recent fiscal year ends. The zone status is based on information that we received from the plans administrators and is certified by each plan s actuary. Plans certified in the red zone are generally less than 65% funded plans certified in the orange zone are both less than 80% funded and have an accumulated funding deficiency, or are expected to have a deficiency in any of the next six plan years plans certified in the yellow zone are less than 80% funded and plans certified in the green zone are at least 80% funded. The FIP RP Status Pending Implemented column indicates whether a financial improvement plan ( FIP ) for yellow orange zone plans, or a rehabilitation plan ( RP ) for red zone plans, is either pending or has been implemented. As of December 31, 2020, all plans that have either a FIP or RP requirement have had the respective plan implemented. minimum contributions outside of the agreed upon contractual rates are not required. For the plans detailed in the following table, the expiration date of the associated collective bargaining agreements is July 31, 2023, with the exception of the IAM National Pension Fund National Pension Plan, which has a July 31, 2024 expiration date. For all plans detailed in the following table, we provided more than 5% of the total plan contributions from all employers for 2020, 2019 and 2018 (as disclosed in the annual filing with the Department of Labor for each respective plan). EIN Pension Plan Number Accruals Surcharge Imposed Pension Fund 2020 2019 2020 2019 2018 Central Pennsylvania Teamsters Defined Benefit Plan 23-6262789-001 Green Green No NA 57 48 44 No Employer-Teamsters Local Nos. 175 & 505 Pension Trust Fund 55-6021850-001 Red Red Yes Implemented 16 14 13 No Hagerstown Motor Carriers and Teamsters Pension Fund 52-6045424-001 Red Red Yes Implemented 11 10 9 No I.A.M. National Pension Fund National Pension Plan 51-6031295-002 Red Green Yes Implemented 44 41 38 No International Brotherhood of Teamsters Union Local No. 710 Pension Fund 36-2377656-001 Green Green No NA 161 142 129 No Local 705, International Brotherhood of Teamsters Pension Plan 36-6492502-001 Yellow Yellow Yes Implemented 120 113 104 No Local 804 I.B.T. & Local 447 I.A.M. UPS Multiemployer Retirement Plan 51-6117726-001 Yellow Yellow Yes Implemented 124 112 116 No Milwaukee Drivers Pension Trust Fund 39-6045229-001 Green Green No NA 53 48 42 No New England Teamsters & Trucking Industry Pension Fund 04-6372430-001 Red Red Yes Implemented 140 120 121 No New York State Teamsters Conference Pension and Retirement Fund 16-6063585-074 Red Red Yes Implemented 135 119 108 No Teamster Pension Fund of Philadelphia and Vicinity 23-1511735-001 Yellow Yellow Yes Implemented 85 74 66 No Teamsters Joint Council No. 83 of Virginia Pension Fund 54-6097996-001 Green Green No NA 82 75 69 No Teamsters Local 639 Employers Pension Trust 53-0237142-001 Green Green No NA 74 68 61 No Teamsters Negotiated Pension Plan 43-6196083-001 Green Green No NA 40 37 34 No Truck Drivers and Helpers Local Union No. 355 Retirement Pension Plan 52-6043608-001 Green Green No NA 27 24 22 No United Parcel Service, Inc. Local 177, I.B.T. Multiemployer Retirement Plan 13-1426500-419 Red Red Yes Implemented 107 100 95 No Western Conference of Teamsters Pension Plan 91-6145047-001 Green Green No NA 1,138 939 868 No Western Pennsylvania Teamsters and Employers Pension Fund 25-6029946-001 Red Red Yes Implemented 37 34 31 No All Other Multiemployer Pension Plans 104 102 72 The following table outlines our participation in multiemployer pension plans for 2020, 2019 and 2018, and sets forth our calendar year contributions and accruals for each plan. Our collectively-bargained contributions satisfy the requirements of all implemented FIPs and RPs and do not currently require the payment of any surcharges. In addition, Certain plans have been aggregated in the All Other Multiemployer Pension Plans line in the following table, as the contributions to each of these individual plans are not NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Protection Act Zone Status FIP RP Status Pending Implemented Total Contributions 2,555 2,220 2,042 UPS Contributions and (in millions) Agreement with the New England Teamsters and Trucking Industry Pension Fund participant, to restructure the pension liabilities for approximately 10,200 UPS employees represented by the Teamsters. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had 837 and 845 million, respectively, recognized in "Other Non-Current Liabilities" as well as 7 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 recorded in "Other current liabilities" in our consolidated balance sheets, representing the remaining balance of the NETTI Fund withdrawal liability. This liability is payable in equal monthly installments over a remaining term of approximately 42 years. Based on the borrowing rates currently available to us for long-term financing of a similar maturity, the fair value of the NETTI Fund withdrawal liability as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 was 1.0 billion and 929 million, respectively. We utilized Level 2 inputs in the fair value hierarchy of valuation techniques to determine the fair value of this liability. Multiemployer Health and Welfare Plans certain eligibility requirements as covered under the applicable collective bargaining unit. The following table sets forth our calendar year plan contributions and accruals. Certain plans have been aggregated in the All Other Multiemployer Health and Welfare Plans line, as the contributions to each of these individual plans are not material. Health and Welfare Fund 2020 2019 2018 Bay Area Delivery Drivers 39 37 40 Central Pennsylvania Teamsters Health & Pension Fund 35 31 29 Central States, South East & South West Areas Health and Welfare Fund 3,202 2,899 2,530 Delta Health Systems East Bay Drayage Drivers 37 30 30 Joint Council 83 Health & Welfare Fund 50 45 40 Local 804 Welfare Trust Fund 110 101 90 Milwaukee Drivers Pension Trust Fund Milwaukee Drivers Health and Welfare Trust Fund 53 48 43 New York State Teamsters Health & Hospital Fund 84 71 62 Northern California General Teamsters (DELTA) 188 157 153 Northern New England Benefit Trust 72 59 54 Oregon Teamster Employers Trust 59 51 43 Teamsters 170 Health & Welfare Fund 22 19 18 Teamsters Benefit Trust 57 47 48 Teamsters Local 251 Health & Insurance Plan 23 18 17 Teamsters Local 638 Health Fund 60 53 48 Teamsters Local 639 Employers Health & Pension Trust Funds 39 32 29 Teamsters Local 671 Health Services & Insurance Plan 23 20 19 Teamsters Union 25 Health Services & Insurance Plan 69 59 56 Teamsters Western Region & Local 177 Health Care Plan 859 769 656 Truck Drivers and Helpers Local 355 Baltimore Area Health & Welfare Fund 22 19 18 Utah-Idaho Teamsters Security Fund 45 37 32 Washington Teamsters Welfare Trust 76 67 57 All Other Multiemployer Health and Welfare Plans 175 141 156 Total Contributions 5,399 4,810 4,268 In 2012, we reached an agreement with the New England Teamsters and Trucking Industry Pension Fund ("NETTI Fund"), a multiemployer pension plan in which UPS is a We also contribute to a number of multiemployer health and welfare plans covering both active and retired employees. Healthcare benefits are provided to participants who meet NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES UPS Contributions and Accruals (in millions) 2020 Goodwill Activity Freight segment. of changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar on the translation of non-U.S. Dollar goodwill balances. 2019 Goodwill Activity acquired in the Supply Chain & Freight segment was primarily due to our July 2019 acquisitions by Marken in Europe. Dollar on the translation of non-U.S. Dollar goodwill balances. Goodwill Impairment presented that required an interim impairment test. Americas and ISMEA. In our Supply Chain & Freight reporting segment we have the following reporting units: Forwarding, Logistics, UPS Mail Innovations, UPS Freight, The UPS Store, UPS Capital, Marken and Coyote. amount. If the qualitative assessment is not conclusive, we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit to test goodwill for impairment. We primarily determine the fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow model, and supplement this with observable valuation multiples for comparable companies, as applicable. A comparison of the fair value of the reporting unit with its aggregate carrying value, including goodwill, is performed. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we record the excess amount as goodwill impairment, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. Europe Package, Asia Package, Americas Package, ISMEA Package, The UPS Store and UPS Capital. For the remaining reporting units owned at the annual goodwill impairment testing date, we utilized the quantitative process to test goodwill for impairment. Balance on January 1, 2019 715 417 2,679 3,811 Balance on December 31, 2019 715 416 2,682 3,813 Balance on December 31, 2020 715 422 2,230 3,367 NOTE 8. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Acquired 2 3 5 Currency Other (3) (3) Acquired Impairments (494) (494) Currency Other 6 42 48 As of December 31, 2020 we classified our UPS Freight reporting unit as held for sale, which resulted in a goodwill impairment charge of 494 million for the Supply Chain & The remaining change in goodwill for both the Supply Chain & Freight and International Package segments was due to immaterial purchase accounting adjustments and the impact The change in goodwill acquired for the International Package segment was due to our January 2019 acquisition of Transmodal Services Private Limited in India. The goodwill The remaining change in goodwill for the International Package segment was due to immaterial purchase accounting adjustments and the impact of changes in the value of the U.S. We completed our annual goodwill impairment evaluation as of July 1st on a reporting unit basis. Except as discussed below, no triggering events were identified for the periods U.S. Domestic Package is our largest reporting segment and reporting unit. In our International Package reporting segment, we have the following reporting units: Europe, Asia, The following table indicates the allocation of goodwill by segment (in millions): In assessing goodwill for impairment, we initially evaluate qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying In 2020, we utilized a qualitative assessment to determine that it was more likely than not that the reporting unit fair value exceeded the carrying value for U.S. Domestic Package, NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES U.S. Domestic International Supply Chain & Freight Consolidated December 31, 2020, and determined that the fair value of the reporting unit had decreased. A goodwill impairment charge of 494 million, representing the remaining goodwill balance for UPS Freight, is included within Other expenses in the statements of consolidated income. We did not record any goodwill impairment charges in 2019 or 2018. Cumulatively, our Supply Chain & Freight segment has recorded 1.1 billion of goodwill impairment charges, while our International and U.S. Domestic Package segments have not recorded any goodwill impairment charges. For additional information on the pending divestiture of UPS Freight, see note 4. Intangible Assets are not amortized. Impairment tests for indefinite-lived intangible assets are performed on an annual basis. All of our other recorded intangible assets are deemed to be finite-lived intangibles, and are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Impairment tests for these intangible assets are only performed when a triggering event occurs that may indicate that the carrying value of the intangible may not be recoverable. Impairments of finite-lived intangible assets were 13 and 2 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. of December 31, 2020 for the next five years is as follows (in millions): 2021 512 2022 437 2023 372 2024 297 2025 222. Amortization expense in future periods will be affected by business acquisitions and divestitures, software development, licensing agreements, franchise rights purchased and other factors. December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Capitalized software 4,531 (2,962) 1,569 6.9 Licenses 100 (37) 63 3.8 Franchise rights 165 (113) 52 20.0 Customer relationships 729 (344) 385 10.6 Trade name 200 200 N M Trademarks, patents and other 18 (13) 5 12.0 Total Intangible Assets 5,743 (3,469) 2,274 7.7 Capitalized software 4,125 (2,704) 1,421 Licenses 117 (64) 53 Franchise rights 146 (109) 37 Customer relationships 730 (282) 448 Trade name 200 200 Trademarks, patents and other 29 (21) 8 Total Intangible Assets 5,347 (3,180) 2,167 In the fourth quarter of 2020, we determined that our UPS Freight reporting unit should be classified as held for sale. Accordingly, we tested goodwill for impairment as of The following is a summary of intangible assets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in millions): A trade name and licenses with carrying values of 200 and 5 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2020 are deemed to be indefinite-lived intangible assets, and therefore Amortization of intangible assets was 416, 377 and 339 million during 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Expected amortization of finite-lived intangible assets recorded as NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Gross Carrying Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Weighted-Average Amortization (in years) NOTE 9. DEBT AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS The carrying value of our outstanding debt obligations, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 consists of the following (in millions): Commercial paper 15 2021 15 3,234 Fixed-rate senior notes: Floating-rate senior notes: Floating-rate senior notes 350 2021 350 349 Floating-rate senior notes 400 2022 399 399 Floating-rate senior notes 500 2023 499 499 8.375% Debentures: Pound Sterling Notes: 5.500% notes 90 2031 90 86 5.125% notes 618 2050 586 566 Euro Senior Notes: Canadian senior notes: 2.125% senior notes 585 2024 583 571 Finance lease obligations 342 2021 2159 342 498 Facility notes and bonds 320 2029 2045 320 320 Other debt 6 2021 2025 5 8 Total debt 24,814 24,654 25,238 Less: current maturities (2,623) (3,420) Long-term debt 22,031 21,818 3.125% senior notes 1,500 2021 1,507 1,524 2.050% senior notes 700 2021 700 699 2.450% senior notes 1,000 2022 1,028 1,003 2.350% senior notes 600 2022 599 598 2.500% senior notes 1,000 2023 997 995 2.800% senior notes 500 2024 498 497 2.200% senior notes 400 2024 398 398 3.900% senior notes 1,000 2025 995 2.400% senior notes 500 2026 498 498 3.050% senior notes 1,000 2027 993 992 3.400% senior notes 750 2029 746 745 2.500% senior notes 400 2029 397 397 4.450% senior notes 750 2030 743 6.200% senior notes 1,500 2038 1,483 1,483 5.200% senior notes 500 2040 493 4.875% senior notes 500 2040 490 490 3.625% senior notes 375 2042 368 368 3.400% senior notes 500 2046 491 491 3.750% senior notes 1,150 2047 1,137 1,136 4.250% senior notes 750 2049 742 742 3.400% senior notes 700 2049 688 688 Floating-rate senior notes 1,039 2049-2067 1,027 1,028 8.375% debentures 2020 426 8.375% debentures 276 2030 281 281 0.375% senior notes 860 2023 857 779 1.625% senior notes 860 2025 856 779 1.000% senior notes 614 2028 611 556 1.500% senior notes 614 2032 611 556 Floating-rate senior notes 2020 559 5.300% senior notes 1,250 2050 1,231 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Principal Carrying Value Amount Maturity 2020 2019 Commercial Paper As of December 31, 2020 we had U.S. commercial paper outstanding of 15 million with an average interest rate of 0.17% and we had no outstanding balances under our European commercial paper program. As of December 31, 2020, we have classified the entire commercial paper balance as a current liability on our consolidated balance sheets. The amount of commercial paper outstanding under these programs in 2021 is expected to fluctuate. Debt Repayments notes with a principal balance of 424 million matured and were repaid in full. Debt Issuances 3.90%, 4.45%, 5.20% and 5.30%, respectively, and will mature on April 1, 2025, April 1, 2030, April 1, 2040 and April 1, 2050, respectively. Interest on the notes is payable semi- annually, beginning October 2020. Each series of notes is callable at our option at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount, or the sum of the present values of scheduled payments of principal and interest, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Rate plus 50 basis points, and are determined as follows: Fixed-Rate Senior Notes accrued interest. We subsequently entered into interest rate swaps on several of these notes, which effectively converted the fixed interest rates on the notes to variable LIBOR-based interest rates. The average interest rate payable on the notes where fixed interest rates were swapped to variable-based interest rates, including the impact of the interest rate swaps, for 2020 and 2019 were as follows: 8.375% Debentures 5.125% senior notes 1,000 2019 % 4.48 % 3.125% senior notes 1,500 2021 1.60 % 2.59 % 2.450% senior notes 1,000 2022 1.55 % 3.03 % On the 3.90% notes, payments from the redemption date until one month prior to maturity On the 4.45% notes, payments from the redemption date until three months prior to maturity On the 5.20% and 5.30% notes, payments from the redemption date until six months prior to maturity 276 million of the debentures have a maturity of April 1, 2030. These debentures have an 8.375% interest rate until April 1, 2020, and, thereafter, the interest rate will be 7.62% for the final 10 years. These debentures are redeemable in whole or in part at our option at any time. The redemption price is equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount and accrued interest, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon discounted to the date of redemption (at a benchmark treasury yield plus five basis points) plus accrued interest. 424 million of the debentures matured and were paid in full on April 1, 2020. These debentures were not subject to redemption prior to maturity. On July 15, 2020 our Euro floating-rate senior notes with a principal balance of 500 million ( 566 million) matured and were repaid in full. On April 1, 2020, our 8.375% senior On March 24, 2020 we issued four series of notes, in the following principal amounts: 1.0 billion, 750 million, 500 million and 1.25 billion. These notes bear interest at In such event, the present values of scheduled principal and interest payments are discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis at the discount rate of the Treasury We are authorized to borrow up to 10.0 billion under a U.S. commercial paper program and 5.0 billion (in a variety of currencies) under a European commercial paper program. All of our fixed-rate notes pay interest semi-annually, and allow for redemption by UPS at any time by paying the greater of the principal amount or a make-whole amount, plus The 8.375% debentures consist of two separate tranches, as follows: NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Principal Average Effective Interest Rate Value Maturity 2020 2019 swaps on the 2020 debentures, which effectively converted the fixed interest rates on the debentures to variable LIBOR-based interest rates. The average interest rate payable on the 2020 debentures, including the impact of the interest rate swaps, for 2020 and 2019 was 6.66% and 7.20%, respectively. Floating-Rate Senior Notes average interest rate for 2020 and 2019 was 0.40% and 2.05%, respectively. These notes are callable at various times after 30 years at a stated percentage of par value, and putable by the note holders at various times after one year at a stated percentage of par value. The notes have maturities ranging from 2049 through 2067. We classified the floating-rate senior notes that are putable by the note holder as long-term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets, due to our intent and ability to refinance the debt if the put option is exercised by the note holder. basis points. The average interest rate for 2020 and 2019 was 1.29% and 2.82%, respectively. These notes are not callable. The notes have maturities ranging from 2021 through 2023. Finance Lease Obligations Facility Notes and Bonds United States. These facilities are located around airport properties in Louisville, Kentucky Dallas, Texas and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Under these arrangements, we enter into a lease or loan agreement that covers the debt service obligations on the bonds issued by these entities, as follows: Pound Sterling Notes Bonds with a principal balance of 149 million issued by the Louisville Regional Airport Authority associated with our Worldport facility in Louisville, Kentucky. The bonds, which are due in January 2029, bear interest at a variable rate, and the average interest rates for 2020 and 2019 were 0.50% and 1.49%, respectively. Bonds with a principal balance of 42 million and due in November 2036 issued by the Louisville Regional Airport Authority associated with our air freight facility in Louisville, Kentucky. The bonds bear interest at a variable rate, and the average interest rates for 2020 and 2019 were 0.56% and 1.49%, respectively. Bonds with a principal balance of 29 million issued by the Dallas Fort Worth International Airport Facility Improvement Corporation associated with our Dallas, Texas airport facilities. The bonds are due in May 2032 and bear interest at a variable rate, however the variable cash flows on the obligation have been swapped to a fixed 5.11%. Bonds with a principal balance of 100 million issued by the Delaware County, Pennsylvania Industrial Development Authority associated with our Philadelphia, Pennsylvania airport facilities. These bonds, which are due September 2045, bear interest at a variable rate. The average interest rate for 2020 and 2019 was 0.62% and 1.48%, respectively. Notes with a principal amount of 66 million accrue interest at a 5.50% fixed rate, and are due in February 2031. These notes are not callable. Notes with a principal amount of 455 million accrue interest at a 5.125% fixed rate, and are due in February 2050. These notes are callable at our option at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon discounted to the date of redemption at a benchmark U.K. government bond yield plus 15 basis points, plus accrued interest. Interest is payable semi-annually in April and October for both tranches and neither tranche is subject to sinking fund requirements. We subsequently entered into interest rate The floating-rate senior notes, with principal amounts totaling 1.0 billion, bear interest at either one or three-month LIBOR, less a spread ranging from 30 to 45 basis points. The The remaining three floating-rate senior notes in the principal amounts of 350, 400 and 500 million, bear interest at three-month LIBOR, plus a spread ranging from 15 to 45 We have certain property, plant and equipment subject to finance leases. For additional information on finance lease obligations, see note 11. We have entered into agreements with certain municipalities or related entities to finance the construction of, or improvements to, facilities that support our operations in the The Pound Sterling notes consist of two separate tranches, as follows: NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Canadian Dollar Senior Notes Euro Senior Notes Contractual Commitments (in millions): requirements. We also issue surety bonds as an alternative to letters of credit in certain instances, and as of December 31, 2020, we had 1.3 billion of surety bonds written. Sources of Credit Amounts outstanding under this agreement bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to LIBOR for the applicable interest period and currency denomination, plus a margin of 0.875%. Alternatively, a fluctuating rate of interest equal to the highest of (1) the rate of interest last quoted by The Wall Street Journal as the prime rate in the United States (2) the Federal Funds effective rate plus 0.50% or (3) LIBOR for a one-month interest period plus 1.0%, may be used at our discretion. Year Debt Principal 2021 2,568 2,730 2022 2,001 1,415 2023 2,360 404 2024 1,485 201 2025 1,860 60 After 2025 14,198 1 Total 24,472 4,811 Notes in the principal amount of C 750 million, which bear interest at a 2.125% fixed interest rate and mature in May 2024. Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually. The notes are callable at our option, in whole or in part, at the Government of Canada yield plus 21.5 basis points and on or after the par call date, at par value. Notes in the principal amount of 500 million accrue interest at a 1.00% fixed rate and are due in November 2028. Interest is payable annually on the notes. These notes are callable at our option at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon discounted to the date of redemption at a benchmark comparable German government bond yield plus 15 basis points, plus accrued interest. Notes with a principal amount of 700 million accrue interest at a 1.625% fixed rate and are due in November 2025. Interest is payable annually on the notes. These notes are callable at our option at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon discounted to the date of redemption at a benchmark German government bond yield plus 20 basis points, plus accrued interest. Notes with principal amounts of 700 million and 500 million accrue interest at 0.375% and 1.50% fixed rates, respectively, and are due in November 2023 and November 2032, respectively. Interest on these notes is payable annually. The notes are callable at our option at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon discounted to the date of redemption at a benchmark comparable government bond yield plus 10 and 20 basis points, respectively, plus accrued interest. The Euro notes consist of three separate issuances, as follows: The Canadian Dollar notes consist of a single series, as follows: The following table sets forth the aggregate annual principal payments due under our long-term debt and the aggregate amounts expected to be spent for purchase commitments As of December 31, 2020, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling approximately 1.4 billion issued in connection with our self-insurance reserves and other routine business We maintain two credit agreements with a consortium of banks. The first of these agreements provides revolving credit facilities of 2.0 billion, and expires on December 7, 2021. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Commitments fixed rate equal to LIBOR for the applicable interest period and currency denomination, plus an applicable margin. Alternatively, a fluctuating rate of interest equal to the highest of (1) the rate of interest last quoted by The Wall Street Journal as the prime rate in the United States (2) the Federal Funds effective rate plus 0.50% and (3) LIBOR for a one month interest period plus 1.00%, plus an applicable margin, may be used at our discretion. spread, subject to a minimum rate of 0.10% and a maximum rate of 0.75% per annum. The rate is interpolated for a period of time from the date of determination of such credit default swap spread in connection with a new interest period until the latest maturity date of the facility then in effect (but not less than a period of one year). to request advances under these facilities based on competitive bids for the applicable interest rate. There were no amounts outstanding under these facilities as of December 31, 2020. Debt Covenants financial covenants. These covenants limit the amount of secured indebtedness that we may incur, and limit the amount of attributable debt in sale-leaseback transactions, to 10% of net tangible assets. As of December 31, 2020, 10% of net tangible assets is equivalent to 4.0 billion however, we have no covered sale-leaseback transactions or secured indebtedness outstanding. We do not expect these covenants to have a material impact on our financial condition or liquidity. Fair Value of Debt approximately 28.3 and 26.9 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We utilized Level 2 inputs in the fair value hierarchy of valuation techniques to determine the fair value of all of our debt instruments. The second agreement provides revolving credit facilities of 2.5 billion, and expires on December 11, 2023. Amounts outstanding under this facility bear interest at a periodic The applicable margin for advances bearing interest based on LIBOR is a percentage determined by quotations from Markit Group Ltd. for our one-year credit default swap The applicable margin for advances bearing interest based on the prime rate is 1.00% below the applicable margin for LIBOR advances (but not lower than 0%). We are also able Our existing debt instruments and credit facilities subject us to certain financial covenants. As of December 31, 2020 and for all prior periods presented, we have satisfied these Based on the borrowing rates currently available to us for long-term debt with similar terms and maturities, the fair value of long-term debt, including current maturities, is NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES including (except as otherwise noted herein) the matters described below, and we intend to vigorously defend each matter. We accrue amounts associated with legal proceedings when and to the extent a loss becomes probable and can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal proceedings may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts accrued on those claims. operations or financial condition. For these matters, we have described the reasons that we are unable to estimate a possible loss or range of losses. Judicial Proceedings believe that any loss associated with any such matter will have a material impact on our operations or financial condition. One of these matters, Hughes v. UPS Supply Chain Solutions, Inc. and United Parcel Service, Inc. had previously been certified as a class action in Kentucky state court. In the second quarter of 2019, the court granted our motion for judgment on the pleadings related to the wage-and-hour claims. The plaintiffs have appealed this decision. Other Matters International Commercial Air contracts. In October 2017, we received a Civil Investigative Demand seeking certain information relating to our contracts. The DOJ has indicated it is investigating potential violations of the False Claims Act or other statutes. We are cooperating with the DOJ. An immaterial accrual with respect to this matter is included in our consolidated balance sheets. We do not believe that any loss from this matter would have a material impact on our operations or financial condition, although we are unable to predict what action, if any, might be taken in the future by any government authorities as a result of their investigation. industry, including UPS, related to alleged nonaggression agreements to allocate customers. In May 2017, UPS received a Statement of Objections issued by the CNMC. In July 2017, UPS received a Proposed Decision from the CNMC. On March 8, 2018, the CNMC adopted a final decision, finding an infringement and imposing an immaterial fine on UPS. UPS appealed the decision and in September 2018, obtained a suspension of the implementation of the decision (including payment of the fine). The appeal is pending. We do not believe that any loss from this matter would have a material impact on our operations or financial condition. We are vigorously defending ourselves and believe that we have a number of meritorious legal defenses. There are also unresolved questions of law and fact that could be important to the ultimate resolution of this matter. indicated that it was investigating potential recordkeeping violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act at those facilities. We have settled this matter with the payment of an immaterial amount. the aggregate), including any reasonably possible losses in excess of current accruals, will have a material impact on our operations or financial condition. NOTE 10. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES We are involved in a number of judicial proceedings and other matters arising from the conduct of our business. Although there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome, we have generally denied, or believe we have meritorious defenses and will deny, liability in all pending matters, For matters as to which we are not able to estimate a possible loss or range of losses, we are not able to determine whether any such loss will have a material impact on our We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits filed in state and federal courts containing various class action allegations under state wage-and-hour laws. At this time, we do not In October 2015, the Department of Justice ("DOJ") informed us of an industry-wide inquiry into the transportation of mail under the United States Postal Service ("USPS") In August 2016, Spain s National Markets and Competition Commission ( CNMC ) announced an investigation into 10 companies in the commercial delivery and parcel In May 2020, the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) sent us an information request related to hazardous waste regulatory compliance at certain of our facilities. The EPA We are a party in various other matters that arose in the normal course of business. We do not believe that the eventual resolution of these other matters (either individually or in NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES single lease component. We have also elected not to recognize leases that have an original lease term, including reasonably certain renewal or purchase options, of twelve months or less in our consolidated balance sheets for all classes of underlying assets. Lease costs for short-term leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We elected the package of transition practical expedients for existing contracts, which allowed us to carry forward our historical assessments of whether contracts are, or contain, leases, lease classification and determination of initial direct costs. aircraft, aircraft engines, information technology equipment (primarily mainframes, servers and copiers), vehicles and various other equipment used in operating our business. Certain leases for real estate and aircraft contain options to purchase, extend or terminate the lease. Determining the lease term and amount of lease payments to include in the calculation of the ROU asset and lease obligation for leases containing options requires the use of judgment to determine whether the exercise of an option is reasonably certain and whether the optional period and payments should be included in the calculation of the associated ROU asset and lease obligation. In making this determination, we consider all relevant economic factors that would compel us to exercise or not exercise an option. the index or rate at the commencement date. In subsequent periods, lease payments dependent on an index or rate are not remeasured. Rather, changes to payments due to a change in an index or rate are recognized in our statements of consolidated income in the period of the change. For these leases, we use an estimate of our incremental borrowing rate to discount lease payments based on information available at lease commencement. The incremental borrowing rate is derived using multiple inputs including our credit rating, the impact of full collateralization, lease term and denominated currency. The remaining lease terms vary from 1 month to 140 years. remaining 294 are classified as short-term leases. A majority of the obligations associated with the aircraft classified as finance leases have been legally defeased. Most of our long-term aircraft operating leases are operated by a third party to handle package and cargo volume in geographic regions where, due to government regulations, we are restricted from operating an airline. agreements, primarily being that either party can cancel the agreement with short notice, we have classified these as short-term leases. Additionally, the lease payments associated with these charter agreements are variable in nature based on the number of hours flown. Real Estate leases contain charges for common area maintenance or other expenses that are updated based on landlord estimates. Due to this variability, the cash flows associated with these charges are not included in the minimum lease payments used in determining the ROU asset and associated lease obligation. lease term and lease payments when their exercise is considered to be reasonably certain. commencement. These incentives reduce lease payments for classification purposes and reduce the initial ROU asset. When lease incentives are receivable at lease commencement, they also reduce the initial lease obligation. NOTE 11. LEASES We recognize a right-of-use ("ROU") asset and lease obligation for all leases. Some of our leases contain both lease and non-lease components, which we have elected to treat as a We lease property and equipment under finance and operating leases. We have finance and operating leases for package centers, airport facilities, warehouses, office space, When our leases contain future payments that are dependent on an index or rate, such as the consumer price index, we initially measure the lease obligation and ROU asset using When available, we use the rate implicit in the lease to discount lease payments however, the rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable for substantially all of our leases. In addition to the aircraft that we own, we have leases for 338 aircraft. Of these leased aircraft, 27 are classified as finance leases, 17 are classified as operating leases and the In order to meet customers' needs, we charter aircraft to handle package and cargo volume on certain international trade lanes and domestic routes. Due to the nature of these We have operating and finance leases for package centers, airport facilities, warehouses, office space and expansion facilities utilized during peak shipping periods. Many of our Some of our real estate leases contain options to renew or extend the lease or terminate the lease before the expiration date. These options are factored into the determination of the We also enter into real estate leases that contain lease incentives, such as tenant improvement allowances or move-in allowances, that are received or receivable at lease NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES contemporaneously with the lease agreement. We classify these leases as finance leases and include the purchase date and purchase price in the determination of the lease term and lease payments, respectively, when the option to exercise or purchase is reasonably certain. Transportation equipment and other equipment month-to-month basis and the leases can be terminated without penalty. The lease term for these types of leases is determined by the length of the underlying customer contract or based on the judgment of the business unit. We also enter into multi-year leases for trailers to increase capacity during periods of high demand, which are typically only used for 90-120 days during the year. These leases are treated as short-term as the cumulative right-of-use is less than 12 months over the term of the contract. shipping services, technology equipment and office equipment used in our facilities. of these costs, these are expensed as incurred and are not included in the ROU asset and associated lease obligation. The components of lease expense for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows (in millions): lease costs disclosed in the table above, impairment charges for ROU assets were 17 million in 2020. We did not record any impairment charges in 2019 or 2018. Rent expense related to our operating leases was 959 million for 2018. Operating lease costs 711 643 Finance lease costs: Variable lease costs 247 206 Short-term lease costs 1,299 1,122 Total lease costs 2,354 2,063 Amortization of assets 79 73 Interest on lease liabilities 18 19 Total finance lease costs 97 92 From time to time, we enter into leases with the intention of purchasing the property, either through purchase options with a fixed price or a purchase agreement negotiated We enter into both long-term and short-term leases for transportation equipment to supplement our capacity or meet contractual demands. Some of these assets are leased on a The remainder of our leases are primarily related to equipment used in our air operations, vehicles required to meet capacity needs during periods of higher demand for our Some of our transportation and technology equipment leases require us to make additional lease payments based on the underlying usage of the assets. Due to the variable nature We perform impairment assessments for our ROU assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying values may not be recoverable. In addition to the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Supplemental information related to leases and location within our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows (in millions, except lease term and discount rate): Supplemental cash flow information related to leases for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows (in millions): Operating Leases: Finance Leases: Weighted average remaining lease term (in years): Weighted average discount rate: Cash paid for amounts included in measurement of obligations: Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations: Operating lease right-of-use assets 3,073 2,856 Current maturities of operating leases 560 538 Non-current operating leases 2,540 2,391 Property, plant and equipment, net 1,225 1,502 Current maturities of long-term debt, commercial paper and finance leases 56 181 Long-term debt and finance leases 286 317 Operating leases 11.2 9.7 Finance leases 9.3 8.9 Operating leases 2.28 % 2.78 % Finance leases 4.14 % 4.03 % Operating cash flows from operating leases 686 620 Operating cash flows from finance leases 18 19 Financing cash flows from finance leases 192 140 Operating leases 787 810 Finance leases 66 110 Total operating lease obligations 3,100 2,929 Total finance lease obligations 342 498 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Maturities of lease obligations as of December 31, 2020 are as follows (in millions): property, such as when leasehold improvements are completed by the lessor or a certificate of occupancy is obtained. 2021 69 631 2022 64 557 2023 50 458 2024 30 335 2025 27 259 Thereafter 188 1,468 Less: Imputed interest (86) (608) Less: Current obligations (56) (560) Total lease payments 428 3,708 Total lease obligations 342 3,100 Long-term lease obligations 286 2,540 As of December 31, 2020, we have additional leases which have not commenced of 184 million. These leases will commence in 2021 and 2022 when we are granted access to the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Finance Leases Operating Leases Capital Stock, Additional Paid-In Capital, Retained Earnings and Non-Controlling Minority Interests whereas class B shares are entitled to one vote per share. Class A shares are primarily held by UPS employees and retirees, as well as trusts and descendants of the Company's founders, and these shares are fully convertible into class B shares at any time. Class B shares are publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol UPS . Class A and B shares both have a 0.01 par value, and as of December 31, 2020, there were 4.6 billion class A shares and 5.6 billion class B shares authorized to be issued. Additionally, there are 200 million preferred shares authorized to be issued, with a par value of 0.01 per share. As of December 31, 2020, no preferred shares had been issued. December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in millions, except per share amounts): shares of class A common stock. Shares Dollars Shares Dollars Shares Dollars Class A Common Stock: Class B Common Stock: Additional Paid-In Capital: Retained Earnings: Non-Controlling Interests: The dividend per share amount is the same for both class A and class B common stock. Dividends include 178, 147 and 178 million for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, that were settled in NOTE 12. SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY Balance at beginning of year 156 2 163 2 173 2 Common stock purchases (3) (3) Stock award plans 6 5 3 Common stock issuances 4 3 4 Conversions of class A to class B common stock (19) (12) (14) Class A shares issued at end of year 147 2 156 2 163 2 Balance at beginning of year 701 7 696 7 687 7 Common stock purchases (2) (7) (5) Conversions of class A to class B common stock 19 12 14 Class B shares issued at end of year 718 7 701 7 696 7 Balance at beginning of year 150 Stock award plans 498 778 419 Common stock purchases (217) (1,005) (859) Common stock issuances 434 356 406 Option premiums received (paid) 21 34 Balance at end of year 865 150 Balance at beginning of year 9,105 8,006 5,852 Net income attributable to controlling interests 1,343 4,440 4,791 Dividends ( 4.04, 3.84, and 3.64 per share) (3,552) (3,341) (3,189) Common stock purchases (141) Reclassification from AOCI pursuant to the early adoption of ASU 2018-02 735 Other (42) Balance at end of year 6,896 9,105 8,006 Balance at beginning of year 16 16 30 Change in non-controlling interests (4) (14) Balance at end of year 12 16 16 We maintain two classes of common stock, which are distinguished from each other by their respective voting rights. Class A shares of UPS are entitled to 10 votes per share, The following is a rollforward of our common stock, additional paid-in capital, retained earnings and non-controlling minority interests accounts for the years ended NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2020 2019 2018 of December 31, 2020, we had 2.1 billion of this share repurchase authorization available. will depend upon market conditions. Unless terminated earlier by the Board, the program will expire when we have purchased all shares authorized for repurchase under the program. On April 28, 2020, we announced our intention to suspend stock repurchases. 1.0 billion, respectively ( 224 million, 1.0 and 1.0 billion in repurchases for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, are reported on the statements of consolidated cash flows due to the timing of settlements). capped call options for the purchase of UPS class B shares. We pay a fixed sum of cash upon execution of each agreement in exchange for the right to receive either a predetermined amount of cash or stock. Upon expiration of each agreement, if the closing market price of our common stock is above the predetermined price, we will have our initial investment returned with a premium in either cash or shares (at our election). If the closing market price of our common stock is at or below the pre-determined price, we will receive the number of shares specified in the agreement. We received net premiums of 21 and 34 million during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, related to entering into and settling capped call options for the purchase of class B shares. As of December 31, 2020, we had no capped call options outstanding, nor did we enter into any of these structured repurchase agreements during the year. movement year over year was driven by changes in the vesting schedule for certain of our awards. In May 2016, the Board of Directors approved a share repurchase authorization of 8.0 billion for shares of class A and class B common stock, which has no expiration date. As Share repurchases may be in the form of accelerated share repurchase programs, open market purchases or other methods we deem appropriate. The timing of share repurchases For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we repurchased a total of 2.1, 9.1 and 8.9 million shares of class A and class B common stock for 217 million, 1.0 and In order to lower the average cost of acquiring shares in our ongoing share repurchase program, we periodically enter into structured repurchase agreements involving the use of Movements in additional paid-in capital in respect of stock award plans comprise accruals for unvested awards, offset by adjustments for awards that vest during the period. The NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) derivatives that qualify as hedges of cash flows and unrecognized pension and postretirement benefit costs. The activity in AOCI for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in millions): Foreign Currency Translation Gain (Loss), Net of Tax: Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Marketable Securities, Net of Tax: Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Cash Flow Hedges, Net of Tax: Unrecognized Pension and Postretirement Benefit Costs, Net of Tax: Balance at beginning of year (1,078) (1,126) (930) Translation adjustment (net of tax effect of (36), 10 and 37) 97 48 (149) Reclassification to retained earnings pursuant to the early adoption of ASU 2018-02 (47) Balance at end of year (981) (1,078) (1,126) Balance at beginning of year 4 (2) (2) Current period changes in fair value (net of tax effect of 1, 4 and (1)) 6 11 (3) Reclassification to earnings (net of tax effect of (1), (1) and 1) (4) (5) 3 Balance at end of year 6 4 (2) Balance at beginning of year 112 40 (366) Current period changes in fair value (net of tax effect of ( 61), 61 and 135) (192) 195 429 Reclassification to earnings (net of tax effect of (45), (39) and 18) (143) (123) 56 Reclassification to retained earnings pursuant to the early adoption of ASU 2018-02 (79) Balance at end of year (223) 112 40 Balance at beginning of year (5,035) (3,906) (3,569) Net actuarial gain (loss) and prior service cost resulting from remeasurements of plan assets and liabilities (net of tax effect of (1,885), (979)and (355)) (5,984) (3,117) (1,117) Reclassification to earnings (net of tax effect of 1,607, 626 and 439) 5,104 1,988 1,389 Reclassification to retained earnings pursuant to the early adoption of ASU 2018-02 (609) Balance at end of year (5,915) (5,035) (3,906) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at end of year (7,113) (5,997) (4,994) We recognize activity in AOCI for foreign currency translation adjustments, unrealized holding gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, unrealized gains and losses from NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2020 2019 2018 Deferred Compensation Obligations and Treasury Stock received upon exercise into a rabbi trust. The shares held in this trust are classified as treasury stock, and the liability to participating employees is classified as Deferred compensation obligations in the shareowners equity section of the consolidated balance sheets. The number of shares needed to settle the liability for deferred compensation obligations is included in the denominator in both the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations. Employees are generally no longer able to defer the gains from stock options exercised subsequent to December 31, 2004. Shares Dollars Shares Dollars Shares Dollars Deferred Compensation Obligations: Treasury Stock: Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Marketable Securities: Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Cash Flow Hedges: Unrecognized Pension and Postretirement Benefit Costs: Total amount reclassified for the year (4,957) (1,860) (1,448) Net income Balance at beginning of year 26 32 37 Reinvested dividends 1 2 2 Benefit payments (7) (8) (7) Balance at end of year 20 26 32 Balance at beginning of year (26) (1) (32) (1) (37) Reinvested dividends (1) (2) (2) Benefit payments 7 1 8 7 Balance at end of year (20) (26) (1) (32) Realized gain (loss) on sale of securities 5 6 (4) Investment income (expense) and other Income tax (expense) benefit (1) (1) 1 Income tax expense Impact on net income 4 5 (3) Net income Interest rate contracts (8) (15) (24) Interest expense Foreign currency exchange contracts 196 177 (50) Revenue Income tax (expense) benefit (45) (39) 18 Income tax expense Impact on net income 143 123 (56) Net income Prior service costs (227) (227) (201) Investment income (expense) and other Remeasurement of benefit obligation (6,484) (2,387) (1,627) Investment income (expense) and other Income tax (expense) benefit 1,607 626 439 Income tax expense Impact on net income (5,104) (1,988) (1,389) Net income Detail of the gains (losses) reclassified from AOCI to the statements of consolidated income for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in millions): Activity in the deferred compensation program for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 is as follows (in millions): We maintain a deferred compensation plan whereby certain employees were previously able to elect to defer the gains on stock option exercises by deferring the shares NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Affected Line Item in the Income Statement 2020 2019 2018 Amount Reclassified from AOCI 2020 2019 2018 performance shares and units to eligible employees. On May 14, 2018, our shareholders approved our 2018 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan under which we are authorized to issue an additional 26 million shares. Each share issued in the form of restricted stock units and restricted performance units (collectively referred to as "Restricted Units"), stock options and other permitted awards reduces the share reserve by one share. We had 7 million shares available to be issued under the UPS Incentive Compensation Plan as of December 31, 2020. Performance Award program and the UPS Stock Option program. These awards are discussed in the following paragraphs. We also match a portion of participating employees contributions to the UPS 401(k) Savings Plan in shares of UPS class A common stock. The total expense recognized in our statements of consolidated income under all stock compensation programs was 796, 915 and 634 million during 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The associated income tax benefit recognized in our statements of consolidated income was 210, 216 and 186 million during 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The cash income tax benefit received from the exercise of stock options and conversion of Restricted Units to class A shares was 272, 148 and 175 million during 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Management Incentive Award Program ("MIP") granted to executive officers are determined annually by the Compensation Committee of the UPS Board of Directors. Our MIP provides, with certain exceptions, that one-half to two- thirds of the annual award will be made in Restricted Units, depending upon the level of management involved. The remaining one-third to one-half of the award is electable in the form of cash or unrestricted shares of class A common stock, and is fully vested at the time of grant. Upon conversion, Restricted Units result in the issuance of an equivalent number of UPS class A common shares after required tax withholdings. converting to class A shares at the anniversary of each grant date. The grant value, less estimated forfeitures, was expensed on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period except in the case of death, disability or retirement, in which case immediate expensing occurred. On November 3, 2020, the Compensation Committee of the UPS Board of Directors approved an acceleration of the five-year vesting period for all outstanding Restricted Units granted to non-executive management under the MIP prior to 2019. These Restricted Units became fully vested as of December 31, 2020, however, conversion to class A shares will continue to occur over a five-year period. The elimination of the future service requirement for these awards resulted in the recognition of an additional 133 million of stock compensation expense for the year, of which approximately 104 million was recorded in U.S. Domestic Package. case immediate vesting occurs. The grant value is expensed on a straight-line basis, less estimated forfeitures, over the requisite service period except in the case of death, disability or retirement, in which case immediate expensing occurs. Units at each dividend payable date until they have fully vested. As of December 31, 2020, we had the following outstanding Restricted Units, including reinvested dividends, granted under the MIP: Non-vested as of January 1, 2020 10,739 106.94 Vested (12,195) 106.60 Granted 3,638 102.54 Reinvested Dividends 276 N A Forfeited Expired (165) 101.80 Non-vested as of December 31, 2020 2,293 102.91 0.26 386 NOTE 13. STOCK - BASED COMPENSATION The UPS Incentive Compensation Plan permits the grant of non-qualified and incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and stock units, and restricted The primary compensation programs offered under the UPS Incentive Compensation Plan include the UPS Management Incentive Award program, the UPS Long-Term Incentive Non-executive management earning the right to receive MIP awards is determined annually by the Salary Committee, which is comprised of executive officers of UPS. Awards Except in the case of death, Restricted Units granted under the MIP prior to 2019 previously vested over a five-year period with approximately 20% of the award vesting and Beginning with the MIP grant in the first quarter of 2019, Restricted Units vest one year following the grant date, except in the case of death, disability or retirement, in which All Restricted Units granted are subject to early cancellation or vesting under certain conditions. Dividends earned on Restricted Units are reinvested in additional Restricted NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Restricted Units (in thousands) Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Value Weighted-Average Remaining Contractual Term (in years) Aggregate Intrinsic Value (in millions) granted during 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 102.54, 108.78 and 110.95, respectively. The total fair value of Restricted Units vested was 827, 457 and 596 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, there was 37 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested Restricted Units. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of eight months. Long-Term Incentive Performance Award Program ("LTIP") in the case of death, disability or retirement, in which case immediate vesting occurs on a prorated basis. The number of Restricted Units earned is based on the achievement of the performance targets established on the grant date. invested capital ("ROIC"), growth in currency-constant consolidated revenue and total shareholder return ("RTSR") relative to a peer group of companies. For the two-thirds of the award related to ROIC and growth in currency-constant consolidated revenue, we recognize the grant date fair value of these Restricted Units, less estimated forfeitures, as compensation expense ratably over the vesting period, based on the number of awards expected to be earned. The remaining one-third of the award related to RTSR is valued using a Monte Carlo model. We recognize the grant date fair value of this portion of the award, less estimated forfeitures, as compensation expense ratably over the vesting period. number of Restricted Units earned will then be subject to adjustment based on RTSR relative to the companies within the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. We determine the grant date fair value of the Restricted Units using a Monte Carlo model and recognize compensation expense, less estimated forfeitures, ratably over the vesting period based on the number of awards expected to be earned. 2020. The second measurement period will evaluate the achievement of performance targets for the years 2021 through 2022. The performance targets for the second measurement period will be determined at a future date. Risk-free interest rate 0.15 % 2.23 % 2.61 % Expected volatility 27.53 % 19.64 % 16.51 % Weighted-average fair value of units granted 92.77 123.44 137.57 Share payout 101.00 % 115.04 % 123.47 % Beginning with the LTIP grant in 2020, the performance targets are equally weighted between adjusted earnings per share and adjusted cumulative free cash flow. The final For the 2020 award, the LTIP will be subdivided into two measurement periods. The first measurement period will evaluate the achievement of performance targets for the year The weighted-average assumptions used in our Monte Carlo models for each award year were as follows: The fair value of each Restricted Unit is the NYSE closing price of class B common stock on the date of grant. The weighted-average grant date fair value of Restricted Units We award Restricted Units under the LTIP to certain eligible management employees. These Restricted Units generally vest at the end of a three-year performance period except For awards granted prior to 2020, the performance targets are equally weighted among consolidated operating return on There is no expected dividend yield as units earn dividend equivalents. As of December 31, 2020, we had the following Restricted Units outstanding, including reinvested dividends, that were granted under our LTIP program: Non-vested as of January 1, 2020 1,691 109.18 Vested (867) 110.79 Granted 230 92.76 Reinvested Dividends 64 N A Forfeited Expired (114) 107.34 Non-vested as of December 31, 2020 1,004 104.15 1.22 169 (in thousands) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Restricted Units UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Value 2020 2019 2018 Contractual Term Weighted-Average Remaining (in years) Value (in millions) Aggregate Intrinsic granted during 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 92.76, 107.30 and 111.42, respectively. The total fair value of Restricted Units vested was 112, 71 and 97 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, there was 31 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested Restricted Units. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of one year. Non-qualified Stock Options Compensation Plan must have an exercise price at least equal to the NYSE closing price of UPS class B common stock on the date the option is granted. Options granted generally vest over a five-year period with approximately 20% of the award vesting at each anniversary of the grant date except in the case of death, disability or retirement, in which case immediate vesting occurs. The options granted expire 10 years after the date of the grant. Option holders may exercise their options via the payment of cash or class A common stock and new class A shares are issued upon exercise. average fair values of options, are as follows: the term structure of interest rates at the time of the option grant. The expected life represents an estimate of the period of time options are expected to remain outstanding, and we have relied upon a combination of the observed exercise behavior of our prior grants with similar characteristics, the vesting schedule of the grants and an index of peer companies with similar grant characteristics in estimating this variable. Expected volatilities are based on the historical returns on our stock and the implied volatility of our publicly-traded options. of options exercised during 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 17, 5 and 6 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, there was 3 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested options. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of three years and five months. Expected dividend yield 3.51 % 2.94 % 2.93 % Risk-free interest rate 1.26 % 2.60 % 2.84 % Expected life in years 7.5 7.5 7.5 Expected volatility 19.25 % 17.79 % 16.72 % Weighted-average fair value of options granted 11.74 16.34 15.23 The fair value of each Restricted Unit is the NYSE closing price of class B common stock on the date of grant. The weighted-average grant date fair value of Restricted Units We maintain stock option plans under which options are granted to purchase shares of UPS class A common stock. Stock options granted in connection with the UPS Incentive We grant non-qualified stock options to a limited group of eligible senior management employees annually, in which the value granted is determined as a percentage of salary. The following is an analysis of options to purchase shares of class A common stock issued and outstanding: The fair value of each option grant is estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The weighted-average assumptions used by year, and the calculated weighted- The expected dividend yield is based on the recent historical dividend yields for our stock, taking into account changes in dividend policy. The risk-free interest rate is based on We received cash of 28, 7 and 12 million during 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, from option holders resulting from the exercise of stock options. The total intrinsic value Outstanding at January 1, 2020 1,498 100.74 Exercised (375) 92.76 Granted 441 104.10 Forfeited Expired Outstanding at December 31, 2020 1,564 103.60 6.84 101 Options Vested and Expected to Vest 1,564 103.60 6.84 101 Exercisable at December 31, 2020 801 101.33 5.46 54 (in thousands) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Weighted-Average 2020 2019 2018 Contractual Term Weighted-Average Remaining (in years) Value (in millions) Aggregate Intrinsic Discounted Employee Stock Purchase Plan the NYSE closing price of UPS class B common stock on the last day of each quarterly period. Employees purchased 0.9, 1.0 and 0.9 million shares at average prices of 110.92, 102.11 and 105.53 per share, during 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. This plan is not considered to be compensatory, and therefore no compensation cost is measured for the employees purchase rights. Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Exercise Price Range 65.01 - 80.00 67 0.90 76.02 67 76.02 80.01 - 95.00 46 2.17 82.87 46 82.87 95.01 - 110.00 1,208 7.09 104.28 587 103.87 110.01 - 125.00 243 8.12 111.80 101 111.80 The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2020: We maintain an employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Under this plan, shares of UPS class A common stock may be purchased at quarterly intervals at 95% of (in thousands) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1,564 6.84 103.60 801 101.33 UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Remaining Contractual Term Weighted-Average (in years) Weighted-Average (in thousands) Weighted-Average significant business and are broken down into regional operations around the world. Regional operations managers are responsible for both domestic and export products within their geographic area. U.S. Domestic Package International Package shipments with either origin or destination outside the United States. Our International Package reporting segment includes our operations in Europe, Asia, Americas and ISMEA. Supply Chain & Freight and UPS Mail Innovations units provide services in more than 200 countries and territories worldwide and include international air and ocean freight forwarding, customs brokerage, distribution and post-sales services, mail and consulting services. UPS Freight offers a variety of less-than-truckload and truckload services to customers in North America. On January 24, 2021, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our UPS Freight business as discussed in note 4. Coyote offers truckload brokerage services primarily in the United States. Marken is a global provider of supply chain solutions to the healthcare and life sciences industry, specializing in clinical trials logistics. Other aggregated business units within this segment include The UPS Store and UPS Capital. interest expense and income tax expense. Certain expenses are allocated between the segments using activity-based costing methods as described in Part I, "Item 7. Supplemental Information - Items Affecting Comparability" section of Management's Discussion and Analysis. As we operate an integrated, global multimodal network, we evaluate many of our capital expenditure decisions at a network level. Accordingly, expenditures on property, plant and equipment by segment are not presented. Unallocated assets are comprised primarily of cash, marketable securities and certain investment partnerships. In 2018, we changed the segment allocation methodology for certain shared assets. All prior periods have been recast to reflect this change in methodology. NOTE 14. SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION We report our operations in three reporting segments: U.S. Domestic Package, International Package and Supply Chain & Freight. Package operations represent our most U.S. Domestic Package operations include the time-definite delivery of letters, documents and packages throughout the United States. International Package operations include delivery to more than 220 countries and territories worldwide, including shipments wholly outside the United States, as well as Supply Chain & Freight includes our Forwarding, Logistics, Coyote, Marken, UPS Mail Innovations, UPS Freight and other aggregated business units. Our Forwarding, Logistics In evaluating financial performance, we focus on operating profit as a segment s measure of profit or loss. Operating profit is before investment income (expense) and other, NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES U.S. Domestic Package: International Package: Supply Chain & Freight: Includes 1.2 billion of assets held for sale related to the UPS Freight divestiture. Next Day Air 8,522 8,479 7,618 Deferred 5,665 5,180 4,752 Ground 39,312 32,834 31,223 Domestic 3,160 2,836 2,874 Export 12,159 10,837 10,973 Cargo 626 547 595 Forwarding 6,975 5,867 6,580 Logistics 4,073 3,435 3,234 Freight 3,149 3,265 3,218 Other 987 814 794 Consolidated revenue 84,628 74,094 71,861 Segment information for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 is as follows (in millions): Operating Profit: Depreciation and Amortization Expense: Total U.S. Domestic Package 53,499 46,493 43,593 Total International Package 15,945 14,220 14,442 Total Supply Chain & Freight 15,184 13,381 13,826 U.S. Domestic Package 53,499 46,493 43,593 International Package 15,945 14,220 14,442 Supply Chain & Freight 15,184 13,381 13,826 U.S. Domestic Package 3,891 4,164 3,643 International Package 3,436 2,657 2,529 Supply Chain & Freight 357 977 852 U.S. Domestic Package 35,067 32,795 28,216 International Package 15,717 14,044 12,070 Supply Chain & Freight 9,041 9,045 8,411 Unallocated 2,583 1,973 1,319 U.S. Domestic Package 1,805 1,520 1,375 International Package 597 547 526 Supply Chain & Freight 296 293 306 Revenue by product type for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 is as follows (in millions): Consolidated revenue 84,628 74,094 71,861 Consolidated operating profit 7,684 7,798 7,024 Consolidated assets 62,408 57,857 50,016 Consolidated depreciation and amortization expense 2,698 2,360 2,207 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020, Amazon.com, Inc. and its affiliates ("Amazon") represented 13.3% of our consolidated revenues. Substantially all of this revenue was attributed to U.S. Domestic Package. Amazon accounted for approximately 18.1% and 16.9% of accounts receivable, net, included within the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. No single customer represented 10% or more of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018. United States: International: Consolidated: Revenue 66,580 58,699 56,115 Long-lived assets 28,354 27,976 24,918 Revenue 18,048 15,395 15,746 Long-lived assets 10,213 9,567 8,577 Revenue 84,628 74,094 71,861 Long-lived assets 38,567 37,543 33,495 Geographic information for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 is as follows (in millions): Long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment, pension and postretirement benefit assets, long-term investments, goodwill and intangible assets. No countries outside of the United States provided 10% or more of consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 or 2018. For the year ended December 31, NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2020 2019 2018 those jurisdictions. It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but may not be consistent from year to year. discrete tax items. Total Income Tax Expense 501 1,212 1,228 United States (39) 3,972 4,307 Non-U.S. 1,883 1,680 1,712 Total Income Before Income Taxes: 1,844 5,652 6,019 Statutory U.S. federal income tax rate 21.0 % 21.0 % 21.0 % U.S. state and local income taxes (net of federal benefit) (2.6) 1.4 1.4 Non-U.S. tax rate differential 1.6 0.3 0.2 U.S. federal tax credits (3.6) (1.4) (1.1) Goodwill and other asset impairments 5.1 Net uncertain tax positions 3.6 0.1 (0.6) Non-U.S. valuation allowance release (1.2) Other 2.1 1.2 (0.5) Effective income tax rate 27.2 % 21.4 % 20.4 % NOTE 15. INCOME TAXES U.S. Federal 839 570 89 U.S. State and Local 100 183 7 Non-U.S. 420 359 374 U.S. Federal (725) 255 668 U.S. State and Local (159) (93) 75 Non-U.S. 26 (62) 15 The 2020 state tax impact to the effective tax rate is negative due to the favorable proportion of state tax credits in comparison to pretax income. The income tax expense (benefit) for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 consists of the following (in millions): Income before income taxes includes the following components (in millions): A reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 consists of the following: Our effective tax rate is affected by recurring factors, such as statutory tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate and the relative amounts of taxable income we earn in Our effective tax rate was 27.2% in 2020, compared with 21.4% in 2019 and 20.4% in 2018, primarily due to the effects of the aforementioned recurring factors and the following Total Current 1,359 1,112 470 Total Deferred (858) 100 758 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 Discrete Items defined benefit plans. This income tax benefit was generated at a higher average tax rate than the 2020 U.S. federal statutory tax rate because it included the effect of U.S. state and local and foreign taxes. million. This income tax benefit was generated at a higher average tax rate than the 2020 U.S. federal statutory tax rate due to the effect of U.S. state and local and foreign taxes. 57 million. This income tax benefit was generated at a lower average tax rate than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate due to the portion of the costs related to goodwill impairment, which is not deductible for tax purposes. effective tax rate by 1.5% during the year ended December 31, 2020. 2019 Discrete Items defined benefit plans. This income tax benefit was generated at a higher average tax rate than the 2019 U.S. federal statutory tax rate because it included the effect of U.S. state and local and foreign taxes. million. This income tax benefit was generated at a higher average tax rate than the 2019 U.S. federal statutory tax rate due to the effect of U.S. state and local and foreign taxes. million. This income tax benefit was generated at a lower average tax rate than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate due to the portion of the accrual related to penalties, which are not deductible for tax purposes. reporting date, we consider new evidence, both positive and negative, that could affect the future realization of deferred tax assets. During 2019, we determined that there was sufficient positive evidence to conclude that it was more likely than not that the deferred tax assets related to certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards would be realized. This conclusion was primarily related to achieving cumulative three-year income and anticipated future earnings within the relevant jurisdiction. Accordingly, we reversed the related valuation allowance and recognized a discrete tax benefit of approximately 68 million. 2018 Discrete Items defined benefit plans. This income tax benefit was generated at a higher average tax rate than the 2018 U.S. federal statutory tax rate because it included the effect of U.S. state and local and foreign taxes. million. This income tax benefit was generated at a higher average tax rate than the 2018 U.S. federal statutory tax rate due to the effect of U.S. state and local and foreign taxes. In the fourth quarter of 2020, we recognized an income tax benefit of 1.6 billion related to pre-tax mark-to-market losses of 6.5 billion on our pension and postretirement We recorded pre-tax transformation strategy costs of 348 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. As a result, we recorded an additional income tax benefit of 83 We recorded goodwill and other asset impairment charges of 686 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. As a result, we recorded an additional income tax benefit of The recognition of excess tax benefits and deficiencies related to share-based compensation in income tax expense resulted in a net tax benefit of 28 million and reduced our Our 2020 effective tax rate was also unfavorably impacted by new uncertain tax positions. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we recognized an income tax benefit of 571 million related to pre-tax mark-to-market losses of 2.4 billion on our pension and postretirement We recorded pre-tax transformation strategy costs of 255 million during the year ended December 31, 2019. As a result, we recorded an additional income tax benefit of 59 Legal contingencies and expenses of 97 million were accrued during 2019 in respect of certain legal proceedings for which we recorded an additional income tax benefit of 6 As of December 31, 2018, we maintained a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets, primarily related to foreign net operating loss carryforwards. As of each Other factors that impacted our 2019 effective tax rate include favorable tax provisions enacted in the Taxpayer Certainty and Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2019. In the fourth quarter of 2018, we recognized an income tax benefit of 390 million related to pre-tax mark-to-market losses of 1.6 billion on our pension and postretirement We recorded pre-tax transformation strategy costs of 360 million during the year ended December 31, 2018. As a result, we recorded an additional income tax benefit of 87 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES effective tax rate by 0.6% during the year ended December 31, 2018. provisions enacted in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 and discrete tax credits associated with the filing of our 2017 U.S. federal income tax return. Other Items our meeting specific employment and investment thresholds. The impact of this tax incentive decreased non-U.S. tax expense by 35, 27 and 27 million (increased diluted earnings per share by 0.04, 0.03 and 0.03) for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. expires on December 31, 2025. Fixed assets and capitalized software (5,355) (4,720) Operating lease right-of-use assets (730) (685) Other (501) (538) Deferred tax liabilities (6,586) (5,943) Pension and postretirement benefits 3,994 2,522 Loss and credit carryforwards 325 328 Insurance reserves 535 413 Stock compensation 183 249 Accrued employee compensation 583 287 Operating lease liabilities 736 691 Other 357 205 Deferred tax assets 6,713 4,695 Deferred tax assets valuation allowance (88) (54) Deferred tax asset (net of valuation allowance) 6,625 4,641 Net deferred tax asset (liability) 39 (1,302) Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets: Deferred tax assets 527 330 Deferred tax liabilities (488) (1,632) Net deferred tax asset (liability) 39 (1,302) U.S. state and local operating loss carryforwards 1,253 1,374 U.S. state and local credit carryforwards 108 110 The recognition of excess tax benefits and deficiencies related to share-based compensation in income tax expense resulted in a net tax benefit of 38 million and reduced our Other factors that impacted our 2018 effective tax rate include favorable resolutions of uncertain tax positions, favorable U.S. state and local tax law changes, favorable tax Beginning in 2012, we were granted a tax incentive for certain of our non-U.S. operations, which is effective through December 31, 2021. The tax incentive is conditional upon Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are comprised of the following as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in millions): The valuation allowance changed by 34, (58) and (14) million during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We have a U.S. federal capital loss carryforward of 38 million as of December 31, 2020, 15 million of which expires on December 31, 2021 and the remainder of which Further, we have U.S. state and local operating loss and credit carryforwards as follows (in millions): NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES carryforwards of 716 million as of December 31, 2020, the majority of which may be carried forward indefinitely. As indicated in the table above, we have established a valuation allowance for certain U.S. federal, state and non-U.S. carryforwards and outside basis differences due to the uncertainty resulting from a lack of previous taxable income within the applicable tax jurisdictions and other limitations. foreign subsidiaries is considered to be indefinitely reinvested and, accordingly, no deferred income taxes have been provided thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to U.S. state and local taxes and withholding taxes payable in various jurisdictions. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liability is not practicable because of the complexities associated with its hypothetical calculation. million, respectively. Our continuing policy is to recognize interest and penalties associated with income tax matters as a component of income tax expense. income tax matters for tax years prior to 2016. uncertain tax positions. It is reasonably possible that the liability for uncertain tax positions could significantly increase or decrease within the next twelve months. Items that may cause changes to uncertain tax positions include the timing of interest deductions and the allocation of income and expense between tax jurisdictions. These changes could result from the settlement of ongoing litigation, the completion of ongoing examinations, the expiration of the statute of limitations, or other unforeseen circumstances. At this time, an estimate of the range of the reasonably possible change cannot be made. Balance at January 1, 2018 160 43 9 Additions for tax positions of the current year 47 1 Additions for tax positions of prior years 7 10 Reductions for tax positions of prior years for: Balance as of December 31, 2018 167 44 5 Additions for tax positions of the current year 6 Additions for tax positions of prior years 51 13 Reductions for tax positions of prior years for: Balance as of December 31, 2019 172 52 4 Additions for tax positions of the current year 61 Additions for tax positions of prior years 154 34 2 Reductions for tax positions of prior years for: Balance as of December 31, 2020 333 61 4 Changes based on facts and circumstances (43) (8) (5) Settlements during the period (1) (1) Lapses of applicable statute of limitations (3) Changes based on facts and circumstances (45) (4) (1) Settlements during the period (3) (1) Lapses of applicable statute of limitations (4) Changes based on facts and circumstances (54) (24) (2) Settlements during the period (1) Lapses of applicable statute of limitations A number of years may elapse before an uncertain tax position is audited and ultimately settled. It is difficult to predict the ultimate outcome or the timing of resolution for The U.S. state and local operating loss carryforwards and credits can be carried forward for periods ranging from one year to indefinitely. We also have non-U.S. loss Undistributed earnings and profits ("E&P") of our foreign subsidiaries amounted to 5.6 billion as of December 31, 2020. Currently, 1.4 billion of the undistributed E&P of our The following table summarizes the activity related to our uncertain tax positions (in millions): The total amount of gross uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate was 332, 171 and 165 We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, most U.S. state and local jurisdictions, and many non-U.S. jurisdictions. We have substantially resolved all U.S. federal NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Tax Interest Penalties through dividends or in liquidation. issued upon the exercise of employee stock options because such effect would be antidilutive. NOTE 16. EARNINGS PER SHARE The earnings per share amounts are the same for class A and class B common shares as the holders of each class are legally entitled to equal per share distributions whether The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (in millions, except per share amounts): Numerator: Denominator: Denominator for basic earnings per share 867 864 866 Effect of Dilutive Securities: Denominator for diluted earnings per share 871 869 870 Basic Earnings Per Share 1.55 5.14 5.53 Diluted Earnings Per Share 1.54 5.11 5.51 Diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 exclude the effect of 0.6, 0.5 and 0.2 million shares, respectively, of common stock that may be Net income attributable to common shareowners 1,343 4,440 4,791 Weighted-average shares 862 859 860 Deferred compensation obligations 1 Vested portion of restricted shares 5 5 5 Restricted performance units 4 5 4 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2020 2019 2018 Risk Management Policies exposures, we may enter into a variety of derivative financial instruments. Our objective is to manage, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. It is our policy and practice to use derivative financial instruments only to the extent necessary to manage exposures. As we use price sensitive instruments to hedge a certain portion of our existing and anticipated transactions, we expect that any loss in value from those instruments generally would be offset by increases in the value of those hedged transactions. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Credit Risk Management to minimize such risk exposures for these instruments by limiting the counterparties to banks and financial institutions that meet established credit guidelines and by monitoring counterparties to prevent concentrations of credit risk with any single counterparty. collateral provisions whereby cash is required based on the net fair value of derivatives associated with those counterparties. equivalents in the consolidated balance sheets and its use by UPS is not restricted. As of December 31, 2020, 158 million of collateral was required to be posted with our counterparties. As of December 31, 2019, no collateral was required to be posted with our counterparties. termination of trades. Alternatively, we could be required to provide additional collateral or terminate transactions with certain counterparties in the event of a downgrade of our credit rating. The amount of collateral required would be determined by the net fair value of the associated derivatives with each counterparty. We have not historically incurred, and do not expect to incur in the future, any losses as a result of counterparty default. Types of Hedges Commodity Risk Management on our business. In order to mitigate the impact of fuel surcharges imposed on us by outside carriers, we regularly adjust the rates we charge for our freight brokerage, inter-modal and truckload services. Foreign Currency Risk Management program. Our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Canadian Dollar, Chinese Renminbi and Hong Kong Dollar. We hedge portions of our forecasted revenue denominated in foreign currencies with forward contracts. We normally designate and account for these contracts as cash flow hedges of anticipated foreign currency denominated revenue and, therefore, the resulting gains and losses from these hedges are recognized as a component of international package revenue when the underlying sales transactions occur. foreign currency forward contracts. We normally designate and account for these contracts as cash flow hedges of forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions therefore, the resulting gains and losses from these hedges are recognized as a component of Investment income (expense) and other when the underlying transactions are subject to currency remeasurement. NOTE 17. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Changes in fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates impact our results of operations and we actively monitor these exposures. To manage the impact of these The forward contracts, swaps and options discussed below contain an element of risk that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreements however, we seek We have agreements with all of our active counterparties (covering the majority of our derivative positions) containing early termination rights and or zero threshold bilateral As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we held cash collateral of 146 and 495 million, respectively, under these agreements. This collateral is included in Cash and cash Events such as a counterparty credit rating downgrade (depending on the ultimate rating level) could also allow us to take additional protective measures such as the early As of December 31, 2020, there were no instruments in a net liability position that were not covered by the zero threshold bilateral collateral provisions. Currently, the fuel surcharges that we apply to our domestic and international package and LTL services are the primary means of reducing the risk of adverse fuel price changes To protect against the reduction in value of forecasted foreign currency cash flows from our international package business, we maintain a foreign currency cash flow hedging We also hedge portions of our anticipated cash settlements of intercompany transactions and interest payments on certain debt subject to foreign currency remeasurement using NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES allows the debt to be remeasured to foreign currency translation adjustment within AOCI to offset the translation risk from those investments. Balances in the cumulative translation adjustment accounts remain until the sale or substantially complete liquidation of the foreign entity, upon which they are recognized as a component of Investment income (expense) and other. Interest Rate Risk Management and floating interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. Interest rate swaps allow us to maintain a target range of floating-rate debt within our capital structure. The notional amount, interest payment date and maturity date of the swaps match the terms of the associated debt being hedged. associated debt instruments. Therefore, the gains and losses resulting from fair value adjustments to the interest rate swaps and fair value adjustments to the associated debt instruments are recorded to interest expense in the period in which the gains and losses occur. We have designated and account for interest rate swaps that convert floating-rate interest payments into fixed-rate interest payments as cash flow hedges of the forecasted payment obligations. The gains and losses resulting from fair value adjustments to these interest rate swaps are recorded to AOCI. similar derivatives. These agreements effectively lock a portion of our interest rate exposure between the time the agreement is entered into and the date when the debt offering is completed, thereby mitigating the impact of interest rate changes on future interest expense. These derivatives are settled commensurate with the issuance of the debt, and any gain or loss upon settlement is amortized as an adjustment to the effective interest yield on the debt. Outstanding Positions Currency hedges: Euro EUR 4,197 4,571 British Pound Sterling GBP 1,400 1,494 Canadian Dollar CAD 1,576 1,402 Hong Kong Dollar HKD 3,717 3,327 Interest rate hedges: Fixed to Floating Interest Rate Swaps USD 3,250 3,674 Floating to Fixed Interest Rate Swaps USD 778 778 We hedge our net investment in certain foreign operations with foreign currency denominated debt instruments. The use of foreign denominated debt as the hedging instrument Our indebtedness under our various financing arrangements creates interest rate risk. We use a combination of derivative instruments as part of our program to manage the fixed We have designated and account for the majority of our interest rate swaps that convert fixed-rate interest payments into floating-rate interest payments as fair value hedges of the We periodically hedge the forecasted fixed-coupon interest payments associated with anticipated debt offerings by using forward starting interest rate swaps, interest rate locks or The notional amounts of our outstanding derivative positions were as follows as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in millions): As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had no outstanding commodity hedge positions. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Balance Sheet Recognition applicable to each derivative type and the related fair values of those derivatives. the fair value positions of our derivative contracts recorded in the consolidated balance sheets. The columns labeled "Net Amounts if Right of Offset had been Applied" indicate the potential net fair value positions by type of contract and location in the consolidated balance sheets had we elected to apply the right of offset as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 (in millions): pricing models that rely on market observable inputs such as yield curves, currency exchange rates and investment forward prices therefore, these derivatives are classified as Level 2. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019 we did not have any derivatives that were classified as Level 1 (valued using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets) or Level 3 (valued using significant unobservable inputs). Asset Derivatives Balance Sheet Location 2020 2019 2020 2019 Derivatives designated as hedges: Foreign currency exchange contracts Other current assets Level 2 56 138 45 131 Interest rate contracts Other current assets Level 2 2 2 2 2 Foreign currency exchange contracts Other non-current assets Level 2 35 252 4 236 Interest rate contracts Other non-current assets Level 2 29 21 26 20 Derivatives not designated as hedges: Foreign currency exchange contracts Other current assets Level 2 4 7 4 7 Interest rate contracts Other non-current assets Level 2 12 11 Liability Derivatives Balance Sheet Location 2020 2019 2020 2019 Derivatives designated as hedges: Foreign currency exchange contracts Other current liabilities Level 2 34 7 23 Foreign currency exchange contracts Other non-current liabilities Level 2 142 16 111 Interest rate contracts Other non-current liabilities Level 2 13 11 10 10 Derivatives not designated as hedges: Foreign currency exchange contracts Other current liabilities Level 2 2 2 Interest rate contracts Other current liabilities 1 1 Interest rate contracts Other non-current liabilities Level 2 3 2 Total Asset Derivatives 126 432 81 407 Total Liability Derivatives 192 37 147 12 Our foreign currency exchange, interest rate and investment market price derivatives are largely comprised of over-the-counter derivatives, which are primarily valued using The following table indicates the location in the consolidated balance sheets where our derivative assets and liabilities have been recognized, the fair value hierarchy level We have master netting arrangements with substantially all of our counterparties giving us the right of offset for our derivative positions. However, we have not elected to offset NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Hierarchy Level Fair Value Hierarchy Level Fair Value Gross Amounts Presented in Consolidated Gross Amounts Presented in Consolidated Balance Sheets Balance Sheets Net Amounts if Right of Offset had been Net Amounts if Right of Offset had been Balance Sheet Location of Hedged Item in Fair Value Hedges 2020 and 2019 (in millions): 7 million. These amounts will be recognized over the next 10 years. Income Statement and AOCI Recognition the associated gain or (loss) for the underlying hedged item for fair value hedges for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in millions): Hedged Item is Included Income on Fair Value and Cash Flow Hedging Relationships Revenue relationships: relationships: presented in the statement of income in which the effects of fair value or cash flow hedges are recorded 196 (8) 177 (15) accumulated other comprehensive income (8) (15) accumulated other comprehensive income 196 177 The following table indicates the amounts that were recorded in the consolidated balance sheets related to cumulative basis adjustments for fair value hedges as of December 31, The cumulative amount of fair value hedging losses remaining for any hedged assets and liabilities for which hedge accounting has been discontinued as of December 31, 2020 is The following table indicates the amount of gains and (losses) that have been recognized in the statements of consolidated income for fair value and cash flow hedges, as well as Line Item in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Which the Long-Term Debt and Finance Leases 2,816 42 3,234 40 Location and Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in Gain or (loss) on fair value hedging Interest Contracts: Gain or (loss) on cash flow hedging Interest Contracts: Foreign Currency Exchange Contracts: Total amounts of income and expense line items Hedged items (8) (38) Derivatives designated as hedging instruments 8 38 Amount of gain or (loss) reclassified from Amount of gain or (loss) reclassified from NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Hedged Liabilities Carrying Amount of Fair Value Hedge Adjustments Cumulative Amount of Income and Other Revenue Investment Hedged Liabilities Carrying Amount of Fair Value Hedge Adjustments Cumulative Amount of Income and Other Investment designated as cash flow hedges (in millions): period ending December 31, 2021. The actual amounts that will be reclassified to income over the next 12 months will vary from this amount as a result of changes in market conditions. The maximum term over which we are hedging exposures to the variability of cash flows is approximately 12 years. December 31, 2020 and 2019 for those instruments designated as net investment hedges (in millions): rate swap contracts are intended to provide an economic hedge of portions of our outstanding debt. The foreign currency exchange forward contracts are intended to provide an economic offset to foreign currency remeasurement and settlement risk for certain assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. The investment market price forward contracts are intended to provide an economic offset to fair value fluctuations of certain investments in marketable securities. counterparties. As part of this process, we de-designate our original swap and foreign currency exchange contracts. These transactions provide an economic offset that effectively eliminates the effects of changes in market valuation. currency forward and investment market price forward contracts not designated as hedges for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in millions): Derivative Instruments in Cash Flow Hedging Relationships Interest rate contracts 6 Foreign currency exchange contracts (253) 250 Derivative Instruments Not Designated in Hedging Relationships Interest rate contracts Interest expense (9) (9) Foreign currency exchange contracts Investment income and other 27 (1) Total 18 (10) Total (253) 256 The following table indicates the amount of gains and (losses) that have been recognized in AOCI for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 for those derivatives As of December 31, 2020, there were 11 million of pre-tax gains related to cash flow hedges deferred in AOCI that are expected to be reclassified to income over the 12 month The following table indicates the amount of gains and (losses) that have been recognized in AOCI within foreign currency translation adjustment for the years ended Additionally, we maintain interest rate swaps, foreign currency exchange forwards and investment market price forward contracts that are not designated as hedges. The interest We also periodically terminate interest rate swaps and foreign currency exchange forward contracts by entering into offsetting swap and foreign currency positions with different The following is a summary of the amounts recorded in the statements of consolidated income related to fair value changes and settlements of these interest rate swaps, foreign Non-derivative Instruments in Net Investment Hedging Relationships Foreign denominated debt (265) 75 Total (265) 75 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Location of Gain (Loss) Recognized Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in AOCI on Derivatives Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in AOCI on Debt Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in Income phases will be implemented. The program includes investments, as well as changes in processes and technology, that impact global direct and indirect operating costs. NOTE 18. TRANSFORMATION STRATEGY COSTS In the first quarter of 2018, we launched the first phase of a multi-year, enterprise-wide transformation strategy impacting our organization. Over the next several years additional The table below presents the transformation strategy costs for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in millions): Transformation Strategy Costs 2020 2019 2018 The income tax effects of transformation strategy costs are calculated by multiplying the amount of the adjustments by the statutory tax rates applicable in each tax jurisdiction. Compensation and benefits 211 166 262 Total other expenses 137 89 98 Income Tax Benefit from Transformation Strategy Costs (83) (59) (87) Total Transformation Strategy Costs 348 255 360 After-Tax Transformation Strategy Costs 265 196 273 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (in millions, except per share amounts): the impact on operating profit and other income and (expense) for each period (in millions, except per share amounts): Profit (Loss): Income and (Expense) 178 46 145 61 162 78 (6,325) (2,331) (Loss) 965 1,111 1,768 1,685 1,957 1,750 (3,347) (106) (Loss) Per Share: Impact to Operating Profit Allocation of Matters Impacting Operating Profit to Segments Impact to Other Income and (Expense) NOTE 19. QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) Domestic Package 11,456 10,480 13,074 11,150 13,225 11,455 15,744 13,408 Package 3,383 3,459 3,705 3,505 4,087 3,494 4,770 3,762 Chain & Freight 3,196 3,221 3,680 3,393 3,926 3,369 4,382 3,398 Domestic Package 364 666 1,182 1,208 1,098 1,216 1,247 1,074 Package 551 528 771 663 966 667 1,148 799 Chain & Freight 157 200 259 272 299 245 (358) 260 Earnings (Loss) Per Share 1.12 1.28 2.04 1.95 2.25 2.03 (3.84) (0.12) Earnings (Loss) Per Share 1.11 1.28 2.03 1.94 2.24 2.01 (3.84) (0.12) Restructuring & Other - Employee Benefits 12 106 81 2 18 41 100 17 Restructuring & Other - Other Costs 33 17 31 19 26 22 47 31 Restructuring & Other - Impairment Charges 686 Legal Contingencies and Expenses 97 U.S. Domestic Package 37 28 33 18 35 26 132 133 International Package 7 84 71 2 6 26 12 10 Supply Chain & Freight 1 11 8 1 3 11 689 2 Defined Benefit Plans Mark-to-Market Charges 6,484 2,387 Our segment revenue, segment operating profit, other income and (expense), net income (loss), basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share on a quarterly basis are presented below Our quarterly results were impacted by restructuring and other costs, legal contingencies and expenses and defined benefit plans mark-to-market charges. The table below presents First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 Total Other Net Income Net Income revenue 18,035 17,160 20,459 18,048 21,238 18,318 24,896 20,568 operating profit 1,072 1,394 2,212 2,143 2,363 2,128 2,037 2,133 International International NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter adjustments. This agreement provides for the continuation of certain pension and postretirement benefits within UPS-sponsored plans that we estimate will require us to record an additional pre-tax expense when we close on the UPS Freight divestiture and amend the impacted plans. Upon closing, we also anticipate recording a pre-tax curtailment gain resulting from the acceleration of prior service credits. We currently anticipate that a favorable impact from reducing future benefit accruals for UPS Freight employees will be offset by net losses recorded in AOCI. The divestiture of UPS Freight may require an interim measurement of certain of our U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans. We expect to record the impacts discussed herein by the second quarter of 2021. NOTE 20. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS On January 24, 2021, we entered into a definitive agreement to divest our UPS Freight business to TFI International Inc. for 800 million, subject to working capital and other As of December 31, 2020, UPS Freight was classified as held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet. For additional information, see note 4. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures: design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based upon, and as of the date of, the evaluation, our Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file and submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported as and when required and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting: materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. We have not experienced any material impact to our internal controls over financial reporting despite the fact that more of our employees are working remotely during the COVID-19 pandemic. We have enhanced our oversight and monitoring during the close and reporting process and we are continually monitoring and assessing the effects of the COVID-19 situation on our internal controls to minimize the impact on their design and operating effectiveness. Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting: Company ). Based on the criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, management has assessed our internal control over financial reporting as effective as of December 31, 2020. The independent registered public accounting firm of Deloitte & Touche LLP, as auditors of the consolidated balance sheets of United Parcel Service, Inc. and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2020 and the related statements of consolidated income, consolidated comprehensive income and consolidated cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2020, has issued an attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, which is included herein. There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2020 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to As of the end of the period covered by this report, management, including our Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the UPS management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for United Parcel Service, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the To the Shareowners and Board of Directors of United Parcel Service, Inc. Atlanta, Georgia Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting established in Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ). In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO. of and for the year ended December 31, 2020, of the Company and our report dated February 22, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. Basis for Opinion financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. s Deloitte & Touche LLP Atlanta, Georgia February 22, 2021 We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of United Parcel Service, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company ) as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ( PCAOB ), the consolidated financial statements as The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Item 9B. Other Information Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Information about our Executive Officers Name and Office Age Principal Occupation and Employment For the Last Five Years Carol B.Tom Chief Executive Officer Norman M. Brothers, Jr. Chief Legal and Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary Nando Cesarone President, U.S. Operations Darrell Ford Chief Human Resources Officer Philippe Gilbert President, UPS Supply Chain Solutions Kate M. Gutmann Chief Sales and Solutions Officer, Executive VP, UPS Healthcare and Life Sciences Unit Laura Lane Chief Corporate Affairs, Communications and Sustainability Officer Brian Newman Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Juan R. Perez Chief Information and Engineering Officer Scott A. Price President, UPS International Charlene Thomas Chief Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Officer Kevin Warren Chief Marketing Officer 64 Chief Executive Officer (2020 - present), Chief Financial Officer, The Home Depot, Inc. (2001 - 2019). 53 Chief Legal and Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary (2020 - present), Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary (2016 - 2020), Corporate Legal Department Manager (2014 - 2016). 49 President, U.S. Operations (2020 - present), President, UPS International (2018 - 2020), Europe Region Manager (2016 - 2018), Asia Pacific Region Manager (2013 - 2016). 56 Chief Human Resources Officer (2021 - present), Chief Human Resources Officer, DuPont (2018 - 2020), Chief Human Resources Officer, Xerox Corporation ( 2015 - 2018). 56 President, UPS Supply Chain Solutions (2019 - present), Regional CEO, Americas, DB Schenker Logistics (2015 - 2018), Regional CEO, West Europe, DB Schenker Logistics (2013 - 2015). 52 Chief Sales and Solutions Officer, Executive VP, UPS Healthcare and Life Sciences Unit (2020 - present), Chief Sales and Solutions Officer Senior Vice President The UPS Store and UPS Capital (2017 - 2019) Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Solutions (2014 - 2017). 54 Chief Corporate Affairs, Communications and Sustainability Officer (2020 - present), Chief Corporate Affairs and Communications Officer (August 2020 - October 2020), President, Global Public Affairs (2011 - 2020). 52 Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer (2019 - present), Executive Vice President, Finance and Operations, Latin America, PepsiCo, Inc. (2017 - 2019), Executive Vice President, Global Operations, PepsiCo, Inc. (2015 - 2017), Global Head of e- Commerce, PepsiCo, Inc. (2014 - 2015). 54 Chief Information and Engineering Officer (2017 - present), Chief Information Officer (2016 - 2017), Vice President, Information Services (2011 - 2016). 58 President, UPS International (2020 - present), Chief Strategy and Transformation Officer (2017 - 2020), Executive Vice President of Global Leverage, Walmart International, Walmart Stores, Inc. (2017), Chief Administrative Officer and Executive Vice President, Walmart International, Walmart Stores Inc. (2016 - 2017), Chief Executive Officer and President of Walmart Asia Pte. Ltd. (2014 - 2016). 53 Chief Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Officer (2021 - present), Chief Human Resources Officer (2019 - 2020), President, Human Capital Transformation (March 2019 - July 2019), West Region Manager (2018 - 2019), North Atlantic District Manager (2018 - 2018), Mid-South District Manager (2016-2018), West-OPS Package Operations Manager (March 2016 - August 2016), U.S. Operations Training Staff Manager (2015-2016). 58 Chief Marketing Officer (2018 - present), Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Xerox Corp. (2017 - 2018), President, Commercial Business Group, Xerox Corp. (2016 - 2017), President, Industrial, Retail and Hospitality Business Group, Xerox Corp. (2015 - 2016), President of Strategic Growth Initiatives, Xerox Corp. (2014 - 2015). 13, 2021 (the Proxy Statement ) and is incorporated herein by reference. our Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 11. Executive Compensation in our Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters our Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. incorporated herein by reference. Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. by reference. Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. Information about our directors will be presented under the caption Our Board of Directors" in our definitive proxy statement for our meeting of shareowners to be held on May Information about our Audit Committee will be presented under the caption Our Board of Directors - Committees of the Board of Directors and "Audit Committee Matters" in Information about our Code of Business Conduct is presented under the caption Where You Can Find More Information in Part I, Item 1 of this report. Information about our board and executive compensation will be presented under the captions Our Board of Directors - Director Compensation" and "Executive Compensation" Information about security ownership will be presented under the caption Ownership of Our Securities - Securities Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management in Information about our equity compensation plans will be presented under the caption Executive Compensation - Equity Compensation Plans in our Proxy Statement and is Information about transactions with related persons will be presented under the caption Corporate Governance - Conflicts of Interest and Related Person Transactions in our Information about director independence will be presented under the caption Corporate Governance - Director Independence in our Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein Information about aggregate fees billed to us by our principal accountant will be presented under the caption Audit Committee Matters - Principal Accounting Firm Fees in our Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Item 16.Form 10-K Summary (a) Documents filed as a part of this report: (b) Exhibits Required To Be Filed (c) Financial Statement Schedules Required To Be Filed 1. Financial Statements. 2. Financial Statement Schedules. 3. Exhibits. See Item 15(a)1 above. See Item 15(a) 2 above. See Item 8 for the financial statements filed with this report. See the Exhibit Index below for a list of the exhibits incorporated by reference into or filed with this report. 3.1 Restated Certificate of Incorporation of United Parcel Service, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to Form 8-K filed on May 12, 2010). 3.2 Amended and Restated Bylaws of United Parcel Service, Inc. as of November 17, 2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Form 8-K, filed on November 17, 2017). 4.1 Indenture dated as of December 18, 1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit T-3C to Form T-3 (No. 022-22295), filed on December 18, 1997) . 4.2 Indenture dated as of January 26, 1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Pre-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Form S-3 (No. 333-08369), filed on January 26, 1999) . 4.3 Form of First Supplemental Indenture to Indenture dated as of January 26, 1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Form S-3 (No. 333-08369-01), filed on March 15, 2000). 4.4 Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 21, 2001 to Indenture dated as of January 26, 1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001). 4.5 Indenture dated as of August 26, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form S-3 (No. 333-108272), filed on August 27, 2003). 4.6 First Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 15, 2013 to Indenture dated as of August 26, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Form S- 3ASR (No. 333-192369), filed on November 15, 2013). 4.7 Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 18, 2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K, filed on May 18, 2017). 4.8 Form of 6.20% Senior Notes due January 15, 2038 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Form 8-K, filed on January 15, 2008). 4.9 Form of 4.875% Senior Notes due November 15, 2040 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Form 8-K, filed on November 12, 2010). 4.10 Form of 2.450% Senior Notes due October 1, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Form 8-K, filed on September 27, 2012). 4.11 Form of 3.625% Senior Notes due October 1, 2042 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Form 8-K, filed on September 27, 2012). 4.12 Form of Floating Rate Senior Notes due December 15, 2064 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K, filed on December 15, 2014). 4.13 Form of Floating Rate Senior Notes due September 15, 2065 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K, filed on September 17, 2015). 4.14 Form of 1.625% Senior Notes due November 15, 2025 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Form 8-K, filed on November 20, 2015). 4.15 Form of Floating Rate Senior Notes due March 15, 2066 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K, filed on April 1, 2016). 4.16 Form of 2.40% Senior Notes Due November 2026 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Form 8-K, filed on October 25, 2016). 4.17 Form of 3.40% Senior Notes Due November 2046 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Form 8-K, filed on October 25, 2016). 4.18 Form of 1.00% Senior Notes Due November 2028 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K, filed on October 25, 2016). 4.19 Form of Floating Rate Senior Notes due March 15, 2067 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K, filed on March 31, 2017). 4.20 Form of Floating Rate Senior Notes due May 16, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K, filed on May 16, 2017). No. Description EXHIBIT INDEX 4.21 Form of 2.350% Senior Notes due May 16, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Form 8-K, filed on May 16, 2017). 4.22 Form of 2.125% Senior Notes due May 21, 2024 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Form 8-K, filed on May 18, 2017). 4.23 Form of 0.375% Senior Notes due November 15, 2023 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K, filed on November 13, 2017). 4.24 Form of 1.500% Senior Notes due November 15, 2032 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Form 8-K, filed on November 13, 2017). 4.25 Form of Floating Rate Senior Notes due April 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K, filed on November 14, 2017). 4.26 Form of Floating Rate Senior Notes due April 1, 2023 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Form 8-K, filed on November 14, 2017). 4.27 Form of 2.050% Senior Notes due April 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Form 8-K, filed on November 14, 2017). 4.28 Form of 2.500% Senior Notes due April 1, 2023 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Form 8-K, filed on November 14, 2017). 4.29 Form of 2.800% Senior Notes due November 15, 2024 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Form 8-K, filed on November 14, 2017). 4.30 Form of 3.050% Senior Notes due November 15, 2027 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to Form 8-K, filed on November 14, 2017). 4.31 Form of 3.750% Senior Notes due November 15, 2047 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to Form 8-K, filed on November 14, 2017). 4.32 Form of Floating Rate Senior Notes due November 15, 2067 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to Form 8-K, filed on November 14, 2017). 4.33 Form of 3.400% Senior Notes due March 15, 2029 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K, filed on March 15, 2019). 4.34 Form of 4.250% Senior Notes due March 15, 2049 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Form 8-K, filed on March 15, 2019). 4.35 Form of 2.200% Senior Notes due September 1, 2024 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K filed on August 16, 2019). 4.36 Form of 2.500% Senior Notes due September 1, 2029 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Form 8-K filed on August 16, 2019). 4.37 Form of 3.400% Senior Notes due September 1, 2049 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Form 8-K filed on August 16, 2019). 4.38 Form of 3.900% Senior Notes due 2025 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K filed on March 25, 2020). 4.39 Form of 4.450% Senior Notes due 2030 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Form 8-K filed on March 25, 2020). 4.40 Form of 5.200% Senior Notes due 2040 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Form 8-K filed on March 25, 2020). 4.41 Form of 5.300% Senior Notes due 2050 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Form 8-K filed on March 25, 2020). 4.42 Description of Securities. 10.1 UPS Retirement Plan Amendment and Restatement Effective January 1, 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014). 10.1(a) Amendment No. 1 to UPS Retirement Plan, as Amended and Restated, effective as of June 30, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10- Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2016). 10.1(b) Amendment Four to the Amended and Restated UPS Retirement Plan effective June 23, 2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Form 8-K, filed on June 27, 2017). 10.2 UPS 401(k) Savings Plan, Amendment and Restatement effective as of January 1, 2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K, filed on June 27, 2017). 10.3 UPS Restoration Savings Plan effective January 1, 2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Form 8-K, filed on June 27, 2017). 10.4 Amendment One to the Amended and Restated UPS Excess Coordinating Benefit Plan effective June 23, 2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Form 8-K, filed on June 27, 2017). 10.4(a) UPS Excess Coordinating Benefit Plan, as Amended and Restated, effective as of January 1, 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012). 10.5 United Parcel Service, Inc. 2012 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Annex A to the Definitive Proxy Statement, filed on March 12, 2012). 10.5(a) Form of Long-Term Incentive Performance Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011). 10.5(b) Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2019). 10.5(c) UPS Management Incentive Program Terms and Conditions effective as of January 1, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10(3) to the Form 10- K) for the year ended December 31, 2010). 10.5(d) UPS Stock Option Program Terms and Conditions effective as of January 1, 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7(4) to the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011). 10.5(e) UPS Long-Term Incentive Performance Program Terms and Conditions effective as of January 1, 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7(5) to the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011). 10.6 Form of UPS Deferred Compensation Plan as Amended and Restated effective January 1, 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018). 10.6(a) Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated UPS Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7(1) to the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012). 10.7 2015 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Annex A to the Definitive Proxy Statement filed on March 24, 2015). 10.8 2018 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Annex A to the Definitive Proxy Statement filed on March 16, 2018). 10.8(a) UPS Management Incentive Program Amended and Restated Terms and Conditions effective November 8, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8(a) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018). 10.8(b) UPS Stock Option Program Amended and Restated Terms and Conditions effective November 8, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8(b) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018). 10.8(c) UPS Long-Term Incentive Performance Program Amended and Restated Terms and Conditions effective as of November 8, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8(c) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018). 10.9 Employment offer letter agreement between the Company and Scott Price, dated November 28, 2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018). 10.10 Form of Protective Covenant Agreement between the Company and Scott Price (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018). 10.11 Employment offer letter agreement between the Company and Kevin Warren, dated May 5, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018). 10.12 Form of Protective Covenant Agreement between the Company and Kevin Warren (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018). 10.13 Employment offer letter agreement between the Company and Brian Newman, dated August 7, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8- K filed on August 13, 2019). 10.14 Protective Covenant Agreement between the Company and Brian Newman, dated August 7, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Form 8-K filed on August 13, 2019).  10.15 UPS Long-Term Incentive Performance Program Amended and Restated Terms and Conditions effective as of February 13, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019). . 10.16 Employment offer letter agreement between UPS and Carol B Tom , dated March 11, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K filed on March 13, 2020). 10.17 Protective Covenant Agreement between UPS and Carol Tom , dated March 11, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Form 8-K filed on March 13, 2020). 10.18 Transition Agreement between UPS and David P. Abney, dated March 11, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Form 8-K filed on March 13, 2020). 10.19 Form of Protective Covenant Agreement between UPS and each of Nando Cesarone, Kate Gutmann, Juan Perez and George Willis. 10.20 Retention Arrangement Letter between UPS and Nando Cesarone, dated April 15, 2020. 10.21 Retention Arrangement Letter between UPS and Kate Gutmann, dated April 15, 2020. 10.22 Retention Arrangement Letter between UPS and Juan Perez, dated April 14, 2020. 10.23 Retention Arrangement Letter between UPS and George Willis, dated April 15, 2020. 21 Subsidiaries. 23 Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP. 31.1 Certificate of the Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 31.2 Certificate of the Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 32.1 Certification of the Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 32.2 Certification of the Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 101 The following financial information from the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, formatted in Inline XBRL (Extensible 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File - The cover page from this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 is formatted in iXBRL (1) Filed in paper format. Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. Business Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Income, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss), (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and (v) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (included as Exhibit 101). undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. and on the dates indicated. Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, United Parcel Service, Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities S WILLIAM R. JOHNSON Director February 22, 2021 S CLARK T. RANDT, JR. Director February 22, 2021 S ANN M. LIVERMORE Director February 22, 2021 S MICHAEL J. BURNS Director February 22, 2021 S CHRISTIANA SMITH SHI Director February 22, 2021 S FRANCK J. MOISON Director February 22, 2021 S RODNEY C. ADKINS Director February 22, 2021 S RUDY H.P. MARKHAM Director February 22, 2021 S KEVIN M. WARSH Director February 22, 2021 S CAROL B. TOM Chief Executive Officer February 22, 2021 S WAYNE M. HEWETT Director February 22, 2021 S EVA C. BORATTO Director February 22, 2021 S ANGELA HWANG Director February 22, 2021 S BRIAN O. NEWMAN Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer February 22, 2021 S KATE E. JOHNSON Director February 22, 2021 S RUSSELL STOKES Director February 22, 2021 Rudy H.P. Markham Christiana Smith Shi William R. Johnson Clark T. Randt, Jr. Ann M. Livermore Rodney C. Adkins Brian O. Newman (Principal Financial Officer) Wayne M. Hewett Franck J. Moison Michael J. Burns Kevin M. Warsh Kate E. Johnson Eva C. Boratto Carol B. Tom (Principal Executive Officer) Angela Hwang Russell Stokes Signature Title Date Date: February 22, 2021 SIGNATURES UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. (REGISTRANT) By: S CAROL B. TOM Carol B. Tom Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) United Parcel Service, Inc. (the Corporation, we, us and our ) has five classes of securities registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended: (i) our Class B Common Stock, par value 0.01 per share (our class B common stock ), (ii) our 1.625% Senior Notes due 2025, (iii) our 1.000% Senior Notes due 2028, (iv) our 0.375% Senior Notes due 2023, and (v) our 1.500% Senior Notes due 2032. The following summary description sets forth some of the general terms and provisions of our Class B common stock. The description of our Class B common stock is a summary and is subject to and qualified by reference to the applicable provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation (our certificate of incorporation ), our amended and restated bylaws (our bylaws ), and relevant provisions of Delaware law. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have been incorporated by reference or filed as an exhibit to the Annual Report on Form 10-K to which this description is an exhibit. We are authorized to issue a total of 10,200,000,000 shares of common stock, of which: 4,600,000,000 are shares of class A common stock, par value .01 per share our ( class A common stock, and together with our class B common stock, our common stock ), and 5,600,000,000 are shares of class B common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to make, alter, amend and repeal our bylaws in any manner not inconsistent with Delaware law or our certificate of incorporation. Voting Rights Generally, all shares of our common stock have the same relative rights, preferences and limitations, except as follows: shares of class A common stock have 10 votes per share shares of class B common stock have one vote per share and shares of class A common stock may be converted at any time by the holder into an equal number of shares of class B common stock and, if transferred to certain transferees, are automatically converted into shares of class B common stock immediately upon transfer. DESCRIPTION OF THE REGISTRANT S SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 OF THE DESCRIPTION OF CLASS B COMMON STOCK SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Exhibit 4.42 Except as otherwise required by law, our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, (1) the holders of each class of common stock vote together as a single class, subject to any right that may be conferred upon holders of preferred stock to vote together with holders of common stock, on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation and (2) matters submitted to a vote of stockholders are approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereon. Our certificate of incorporation requires a vote of at least 80% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors to amend provisions of our certificate of incorporation prohibiting stockholder action by written consent and relating to calling a special meeting of stockholders and the business to be transacted at such meeting. Subject to certain exceptions specified in our certificate of incorporation, our certificate of incorporation limits the voting rights of any person who is the beneficial owner (as defined in our certificate of incorporation) of more than 25% of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. Our certificate of incorporation requires a vote of at least 80% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (after taking into account this provision) to amend this provision of our certificate of incorporation. Our board of directors is not classified, and holders of our common stock do not have cumulative voting rights. Dividend Rights Dividends may be paid on our common stock out of funds legally available for dividends, when and if declared by our board of directors. In the case of a distribution of our common stock, each class of common stock receives a distribution of only shares of the same class of common stock. For example, only shares of class B common stock may be distributed with respect to class B common stock. Liquidation, Dissolution or Similar Rights Holders of our common stock are entitled to share ratably in any dividends and in any assets available for distribution on liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, subject, if any of our preferred stock is then outstanding, to any preferential rights of such preferred stock. No Preemptive, Redemption or Conversion Rights Our common stock is not redeemable, has no sinking fund provision or subscription rights and does not entitle the holder to any preemptive rights. Preferred Stock We are authorized to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value 0.01 per share. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. Subject to limitations prescribed by law, the board of directors is authorized at any time to (i) issue one or more series of preferred stock, (ii) determine the designation for any series by number, letter or title that shall distinguish the series from any other series of preferred stock and (iii) determine the number of shares in any series. The board of directors is further authorized to determine, for each series of preferred stock, (a) whether dividends on that series of preferred stock will be cumulative, noncumulative or partially cumulative, (b) the dividend rate (or method for determining the rate), (c) the liquidation preference per share of that series of preferred stock, if any, (d) any conversion provisions applicable to that series of preferred stock, (e) any redemption or sinking fund provisions applicable to that series of preferred stock, (f) the voting rights of that series of preferred stock, if any, and (g) the terms of any other preferences or rights, if any, applicable to that series of preferred stock. Our board of directors, without shareowner approval, may issue preferred stock with voting and conversion rights which could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common stock. If we issue preferred stock, it may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control. Forum Selection Clause Under our bylaws, unless the Corporation, in writing, selects or consents to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for any current or former stockholder (including any current or former beneficial owner) to bring internal corporate claims (as defined in our bylaws), to the fullest extent permitted by law, and subject to applicable jurisdictional requirements, shall be the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, another state court or a federal court located within the State of Delaware). The following summary of our above-referenced debt securities is based on and qualified by the indenture, dated as of August 26, 2003, as supplemented from time to time, entered into with The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to Citibank, N.A.), as trustee (the indenture ), and the 1.625% Senior Notes due 2025 (the 2025 Notes ), 1.000% Senior Notes due 2028 (the 2028 Notes ), 0.375% Senior Notes due 2023 (the 2023 Notes ) and 1.500% Senior Notes due 2032 (the 2032 Notes the 2025 Notes, 2028 Notes, 2023 Notes and 2032 Notes collectively, the notes ). For a complete description of the terms and provisions of the notes, refer to the indenture and the forms of notes, each of which is incorporated by reference or filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The term business day means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, (i) which is not a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York or London are authorized or required by Description of 1.625% Senior Notes due 2025, 1.000% Senior Notes due 2028, 0.375% Senior Notes due 2023 and 1.500% Senior Notes DESCRIPTION OF DEBT SECURITIES law or executive order to close and (ii) on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer system, or the TARGET2 system, or any successor thereto, operates. The notes are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The notes: The notes bear interest at a rate of (i) 1.625% per annum, in the case of the 2025 Notes, (ii) 1.000% per annum, in the case of the 2028 Notes, (iii) 0.375% per annum, in the case of the 2023 Notes, and (iv) 1.500% per annum, in the case of the 2032 Notes, from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided for, payable annually in arrears on November 15 of each year (each a Fixed Rate Notes Interest Payment Date ), to holders of record at the close of business (a) on the November 1st (whether or not a business day) immediately preceding the interest payment date, in the case of the 2025 Notes and the 2028 Notes, and (b) on the November 15th (whether or not a business day) immediately preceding the interest payment date, in the case of the 2023 Notes and the 2032 Notes, or, in each case, if the notes are represented by were issued in an aggregate initial principal amount of 700,000,000, in the case of the 2025 Notes, 500,000,000, in the case of the 2028 mature on November 15, 2025, in the case of the 2025 Notes, November 15, 2028, in the case of the 2028 Notes, November 15, 2023, in bear interest at a rate of 1.625% per annum, in the case of the 2025 Notes, 1.000%, in the case of the 2028 Notes, 0.375%, in the case of are our unsecured and unsubordinated obligations, ranking equally with our other present and future outstanding unsecured and were each issued as a separate series under the indenture, are redeemable by us prior to the stated maturity at the times and prices described herein, are not repayable at the option of the holders prior to the stated maturity, and are not subject to any sinking fund. Notes, 700,000,000, in the case of the 2023 Notes, and 500,000,000, in the case of the 2032 Notes, each subject to our ability to issue additional notes which may be of the same series as the notes as described under Further Issues, the case of the 2023 Notes, and November 15, 2032, in the case of the 2032 Notes, the 2023 Notes, and 1.500%, in the case of the 2032 Notes, unsubordinated indebtedness, one or more global notes, on the business day (for this purpose a day on which Clearstream and Euroclear are open for business) immediately preceding the Fixed Rate Notes Interest Payment Date provided, however, that interest payable on the maturity date of the notes or any redemption date of the notes shall be payable to the person to whom the principal of such notes shall be payable. Interest payable on the notes on any Fixed Rate Note Interest Payment Date, redemption date or maturity date shall be the amount of interest accrued from, and including, the next preceding Fixed Rate Note Interest Payment Date in respect of which interest has been paid or duly provided for (or from and including the original issue date of the notes, if no interest has been paid or duly provided for) to, but excluding, such Fixed Rate Note Interest Payment Date, redemption date or maturity date, as the case may be. This payment convention is referred to as ACTUAL ACTUAL (ICMA) as defined in the rulebook of the International Capital Markets Association. If any Fixed Rate Note Interest Payment Date falls on a day that is not a business day, the interest payment will be made on the next succeeding day that is a business day, but no additional interest will accrue as a result of the delay in payment. If the maturity date or any redemption date of the notes falls on a day that is not a business day, the related payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest will be made on the next succeeding business day as if it were made on the date such payment was due, and no interest will accrue on the amounts so payable for the period from and after such date to the next succeeding business day. The rights of holders of beneficial interests in notes to receive the payments of interest on such notes are subject to the applicable procedures of Euroclear and Clearstream. Optional Redemption of the Notes The notes are redeemable at any time: prior to August 15, 2025 (three months prior to their maturity), in the case of the 2025 Notes, prior to August 15, 2028 (three months prior to their maturity), in the case of the 2028 Notes, prior to August 15, 2023 (three months prior to their maturity), in the case of the 2023 Notes, and prior to August 15, 2032 (three months prior to maturity), in the case of the 2032 Notes, in each case as a whole or in part, at our option, on at least 30 days , in the case of the 2025 Notes and the 2028 Notes, or on at least 10 days , in the case of the 2023 Notes and the 2032 Notes, but not more than 60 days , prior notice mailed (or otherwise transmitted in accordance with the applicable procedures of Euroclear or Clearstream) to the registered address of each holder of the notes to be redeemed, at a redemption price equal to the greater of: 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed and the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments (as defined below) of principal and interest on the notes to be redeemed (not If money sufficient to pay the redemption price of all of the notes (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the redemption date is deposited with the trustee or paying agent on or before the redemption date and certain other conditions are satisfied, then on and after such redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on such notes (or such portion thereof) called for redemption. Comparable Government Bond Rate means the yield to maturity, expressed as a percentage (rounded to three decimal places, with 0.0005 being rounded upwards), on the third business day prior to the date fixed for redemption, of the Comparable Government Bond (as defined below) on the basis of the middle market price of the Comparable Government Bond prevailing at 11:00 a.m. (London time) on such business day as determined by an independent investment bank selected by us. Comparable Government Bond means, in relation to any Comparable Government Bond Rate calculation, at the discretion of an independent investment bank selected by us, a German government bond whose maturity is closest to the maturity of the applicable notes to be redeemed, or if such independent investment bank in its discretion determines that such similar bond is not in issue, such other German government bond as such independent investment bank may, with the advice of three brokers of, and or market makers in, German government bonds selected by us, determine to be appropriate for determining the Comparable Government Bond Rate. on or after August 15, 2025 (three months prior to maturity), in the case of the 2025 Notes, on or after August 15, 2028 (three months prior to maturity), in the case of the 2028 Notes, on or after August 15, 2023 (three months prior to maturity), in the case of the 2023 Notes, and on or after August 15, 2032 (three months prior to maturity), in the case of the 2032 Notes, in each case as a whole or in part, at our option, on at least 30 days , in the case of the 2025 Notes and the 2028 Notes, or on at least 10 days , in the case of the 2023 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the together with, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed to, but Notes and the 2032 Notes, but not more than 60 days , prior notice mailed (or otherwise transmitted in accordance with the applicable procedures of Euroclear or Clearstream) to the registered address of each holder of notes to be redeemed, principal amount of the notes to be redeemed to, but excluding, the redemption date. excluding, the redemption date. including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on an annual basis (ACTUAL ACTUAL (ICMA)) at the applicable Comparable Government Bond Rate (as defined below) plus 20 basis points, in the case of the 2025 Notes and the 2032 Notes, 15 basis points, in the case of the 2028 Notes, and 10 basis points, in the case of the 2023 Notes Remaining Scheduled Payments means, with respect to each note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related redemption date but for such redemption provided, however, that, if such redemption date is not a Fixed Rate Notes Interest Payment Date with respect to such note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed to be reduced (solely for the purposes of this calculation) by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such redemption date. Unless we default in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the applicable notes or portions thereof called for redemption. On or before the redemption date, we will deposit with the paying agent or set aside, segregate and hold in trust (if we are acting as paying agent), funds sufficient to pay the redemption price of, and accrued and unpaid interest on, such notes to be redeemed on that redemption date. If fewer than all of the notes are to be redeemed, the trustee will select, not more than 60 days prior to the redemption date, the particular notes or portions thereof to be redeemed from the outstanding notes not previously called for redemption by such method as the trustee deems fair and appropriate provided that if the notes are represented by one or more global notes, beneficial interests in the Fixed Rate Notes will be selected for redemption by Euroclear and Clearstream in accordance with their respective standard procedures therefor provided, however, that no notes of a principal amount of 100,000 or less shall be redeemed in part. We may at any time, and from time to time, purchase the notes at any price or prices in the open market or otherwise. Payment of Additional Amounts We will, subject to the exceptions and limitations set forth below, pay to or on account of a beneficial owner of a note who is not a United States person for U.S. federal income tax purposes such additional amounts as may be necessary to ensure that every net payment by us of the principal of and interest on such note, after deduction or withholding for or on account of any present or future tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed upon or as a result of such payment, by the United States or any political subdivision or taxing authority of the United States, will not be less than the amount that would have been payable had no such deduction or withholding been required. However, we will not pay additional amounts for or on account of: 1. any such tax, assessment or other governmental charge which would not have been so imposed but for (i) the existence of any present or former connection between the holder or beneficial owner of a note (or between a fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member or shareholder of such person, if such person is an estate, a trust, a partnership or a corporation) and the United States, including, without limitation, such person (or such fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member or shareholder) being or having been a citizen or resident thereof or being or having been engaged in a trade or business or present therein or having, or having had, a permanent establishment therein or (ii) the presentation, where required, by the holder of any such note for payment on a date more than 15 calendar days after the date on which such payment became due and payable or the date on which payment thereof is duly provided for, whichever occurs later 2. any estate, inheritance, gift, sales, transfer or personal property tax or any similar tax, assessment or governmental charge 3. any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed by reason of the holder or beneficial owner s past or present status as a 4. any tax, assessment or other governmental charge which is payable otherwise than by withholding from payments on or in respect of any 5. any tax, assessment or other governmental charge which would not have been imposed but for the failure to comply with certification, 6. any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that would not have been imposed but for a failure by the holder or beneficial owner 7. any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed by reason of such beneficial owner s past or present status as the actual or 8. any tax, assessment or other governmental charge required to be deducted or withheld by any paying agent from a payment on a note personal holding company or foreign personal holding company or controlled foreign corporation or passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes or as a corporation which accumulates earnings to avoid United States federal income tax or as a private foundation or other tax-exempt organization information or other reporting requirements concerning the nationality, residence or identity of the holder or beneficial owner of such note, if such compliance is required by statute or by regulation of the United States or of any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein as a precondition to relief or exemption from such tax, assessment or other governmental charge (or any financial institution through which the holder or beneficial owner holds any note or through which payment on the note is made) to comply with any certification, information, identification, documentation or other reporting requirements (including entering into and complying with an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service) imposed pursuant to, or complying with any requirements imposed under an intergovernmental agreement entered into between the United States and the government of another country in order to implement the requirements of, Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Internal Revenue Code as in effect on the date of issuance of the notes or any successor or amended version of these provisions, to the extent such successor or amended version is not materially more onerous to comply with than these provisions as enacted on such date constructive owner of 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all of our classes of stock entitled to vote or as a direct or indirect affiliate of us upon presentation of such note, where required, if such payment can be made without such deduction or withholding upon presentation of such note, where required, to any other paying agent or any combination of two or more of items (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) and (8), nor shall additional amounts be paid with respect to any payment on a note to a United States Alien Holder who is a fiduciary or partnership or other than the sole beneficial owner of The term United States Alien Holder means any beneficial owner of a note that is not, for United States federal income tax purposes, (i) a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a corporation, partnership or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or any political subdivision thereof, (iii) an estate whose income is subject to United States federal income tax regardless of its source, or (iv) a trust if a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust or if such trust has a valid election in effect under applicable U.S. Treasury regulations to be treated as a United States person. Except as specifically provided under this heading Payment of Additional Amounts, we will not be required to make any payment for any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed by any government or a political subdivision or taxing authority of or in any government or political subdivision. We undertake that, to the extent permitted by law, we will maintain a paying agent in a Member State of the European Union (if any) that will not require withholding or deduction of tax pursuant to European Council Directive 2003 48 EC on the taxation of savings income or any law implementing or complying with, or introduced to conform to, such European Council Directive. Redemption for Tax Reasons We may redeem the notes of each series prior to maturity in whole, but not in part, on not more than 60 days notice and not less than 30 days notice, in the case of the 2025 Notes and the 2028, or not less than 10 days notice, in the case of the 2023 Notes and the 2032 Notes, at a redemption price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus any accrued interest and additional amounts to, but not including, the date fixed for redemption if we determine that, as a result of any change in, or amendment to, the laws (or any regulations or rulings promulgated thereunder) of the United States or of any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein affecting taxation, or any change in, or amendment to, an official position regarding the application or interpretation of such laws, regulations or rulings, which change or amendment is announced and becomes effective on or after the date of issuance of the notes, we have or will become obligated to pay additional amounts with respect to the notes as described above under Payment of Additional Amounts. If we exercise our option to redeem the notes, we will deliver to the trustee a certificate signed by an authorized officer stating that we are entitled to redeem the notes and an opinion of independent tax counsel to the effect that the circumstances described above exist. such payment to the extent such payment would be required by the laws of the United States (or any political subdivision thereof) to be included in the income, for tax purposes, of a beneficiary or settlor with respect to such fiduciary or a member of such partnership or a beneficial owner who would not have been entitled to the additional amounts had such beneficiary, settlor, member or beneficial owner been the holder of the note. Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance We may elect, at our option at any time, to have the provisions of Section 13.02 of the indenture, relating to defeasance and discharge of indebtedness, or Section 13.03 of the indenture, relating to defeasance of certain restrictive covenants in the indenture, applied to the notes of any series, or to any specified part of a series. Defeasance refers to the discharge of some or all of our obligations under the indenture. Defeasance and Discharge Upon our exercise of our option to have Section 13.02 of the indenture apply to any series of the notes, we will be deemed to have been discharged from all obligations with respect to the notes (except for certain obligations to exchange or register the transfer of notes, to replace stolen, lost or mutilated notes, to maintain paying agencies and to hold money for payment in trust) upon the irrevocable deposit in trust for the benefit of the holders of the notes of money or U.S. Government Obligations, or both, which, through the payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms, will provide money in an amount sufficient to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on the notes on the respective stated maturities in accordance with the terms of the indenture and the notes. Defeasance or discharge may occur only if, among other things, we have delivered to the trustee an opinion of counsel to the effect that, we have received from, or there has been published by, the United States Internal Revenue Service a ruling, or there has been a change in tax law, in any case to the effect that holders of the notes will not recognize gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit, defeasance and discharge and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if the deposit, defeasance and discharge were not to occur. As used in this exhibit, U.S. Government Obligations means any security which is (i) a direct obligation of the United States of America for the payment of which the full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged or (ii) an obligation of a person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America, which in either case (i) or (ii), is not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depositary receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) as custodian with respect to any U.S. Government Obligation or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such U.S. Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depositary receipt, provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of principal or interest with respect to the U.S. Government Obligation evidenced by such depositary receipt. Issuance in Euros All payments of interest and principal, including payments made upon any redemption of the notes, will be payable in euros. If, on or after the date of this exhibit, the euro is unavailable to 10 us due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond our control or if the euro is no longer being used by the then member states of the European Union that have adopted the euro as their currency or for the settlement of transactions by public institutions of or within the international banking community, then all payments in respect of the notes will be made in U.S. dollars until the euro is again available to us or so used. The amount payable on any date in euros will be converted into U.S. dollars on the basis of the most recently available market exchange rate for the euro. Any payment in respect of the notes so made in U.S. dollars will not constitute an event of default under the notes or the indenture governing the notes. Neither the trustee nor the paying agent shall have any responsibility for any calculation or conversion in connection with the foregoing. As used in this exhibit, market exchange rate means the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers of euros as certified for customs purposes (or, if not so certified, as otherwise determined) by the United States Federal Reserve Board. Investors will be subject to foreign exchange risks as to payments of principal and interest that may have important economic and tax consequences to them. Further Issues We may from time to time, without notice to or the consent of the registered holders of notes, create and issue further notes ranking equally with each series of the notes in all respects. Such further notes may be consolidated and form a single series with each series of the notes and have the same terms as to ranking, redemption or otherwise as such series (other than the issue date and public offering price of such further notes and, if applicable, the first payment of interest following the issue date of such further notes). Book-Entry System Each series of the notes were issued in the form of one or more global notes (each a global note ) in fully registered form, without coupons, and were deposited on the closing date with, or on behalf of, a common depositary for, and in respect of interests held through, Euroclear Bank S.A. N.V. ( Euroclear ) and Clearstream Banking, soci t anonyme ( Clearstream ). Except as described herein, certificates will not be issued in exchange for beneficial interests in the global notes. Except as set forth below, the global notes may be transferred, in whole and not in part, only to a common depositary for Euroclear or Clearstream or its nominee. Beneficial interests in the global notes are represented, and transfers of such beneficial interests are effected, through accounts of financial institutions acting on behalf of beneficial owners as direct or indirect participants in Euroclear or Clearstream. Those beneficial interests are in denominations of 100,000 and integral multiples of 1,000 in excess thereof. Investors may hold notes directly through Euroclear or Clearstream, if they are participants in such systems, or indirectly through organizations that are participants in such systems. 11 Owners of beneficial interests in the global notes are not entitled to have notes registered in their names, and will not receive or be entitled to receive physical delivery of notes in definitive form. Except as provided below, beneficial owners are not considered the owners or holders of the notes under the indenture, including for purposes of receiving any reports delivered by us or the trustee pursuant to the indenture. Accordingly, each beneficial owner must rely on the procedures of the clearing systems and, if such person is not a participant of the clearing systems, on the procedures of the participant through which such person owns its interest, to exercise any rights of a holder under the indenture. Under existing industry practices, if we request any action of holders or a beneficial owner desires to give or take any action which a holder is entitled to give or take under the indenture, the clearing systems would authorize their participants holding the relevant beneficial interests to give or take action and the participants would authorize beneficial owners owning through the participants to give or take such action or would otherwise act upon the instructions of beneficial owners. Conveyance of notices and other communications by the clearing systems to their participants, by the participants to indirect participants and by the participants and indirect participants to beneficial owners will be governed by arrangements among them, subject to any statutory or regulatory requirements as may be in effect from time to time. The laws of some jurisdictions require that certain purchasers of securities take physical delivery of such securities in certificated form. These limits and laws may impair the ability to transfer beneficial interests in global notes. Persons who are not Euroclear or Clearstream participants may beneficially own notes held by the common depositary for Euroclear and Clearstream only through direct or indirect participants in Euroclear and Clearstream. So long as the common depositary for Euroclear and Clearstream is the registered owner of the global note, the common depositary for all purposes will be considered the sole holder of the notes represented by the global note under the indenture and the global notes. Euroclear and Clearstream may discontinue providing services with respect to the notes at any time by giving reasonable notice to the issuer or its agent. Under these circumstances, in the event that a successor securities depositary is not obtained, certificates for the notes are required to be printed and delivered. We may decide to discontinue the use of the system of book-entry-only transfers through Euroclear and Clearstream (or any successor securities depository). In that event, certificates for the notes will be printed and delivered to Euroclear and Clearstream. Secondary market sales of book-entry interests in the notes held through Euroclear or Clearstream to purchasers of book-entry interests in the global notes through Euroclear or Clearstream will be conducted in accordance with the normal rules and operating procedures of Euroclear and Clearstream and will be settled using the procedures applicable to conventional eurobonds in same-day funds. The trustee will mail notices by first class mail, postage prepaid, to each registered holder s address as it appears in the security register (or otherwise transmit such notices in accordance with applicable procedures of Euroclear or Clearstream). The trustee will only mail or transmit 12 these notices to the registered holder of the notes, and consequently holders of beneficial interests will not receive these notices unless we reissue the notes in fully certificated form. The Trustee, Paying Agent, Transfer Agent and Security Registrar The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. is the trustee, transfer agent and security registrar with respect to the notes and maintains various commercial and investment banking relationships with us and with affiliates of ours. It is also the trustee under the indenture. The Bank of New York Mellon, London Branch, acts as paying agent with respect to the notes. Principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the notes will be payable at the office of the paying agent or, at our option, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the holders of the notes at their respective addresses set forth in the register of holders provided that all payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest with respect to the notes represented by one or more global notes deposited with, or on behalf of, a common depositary, and registered in the name of the nominee of the common depositary for the accounts of Clearstream and Euroclear will be made through the facilities of the common depositary. We may change the paying agent without prior notice to the holders, and we or any of our subsidiaries may act as paying agent. Governing Law The indenture and the notes for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. 13 I, [NAME], am voluntarily entering into this Protective Covenant Agreement ( Agreement ) with United Parcel Service, Inc. ( UPS or the Company ) on and effective as of the date set forth below (the Effective Date ). 1. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS. 2. DEFINITIONS. (a) Key Employee: I acknowledge and agree that, by reason of my highly specialized skillset and the Company s investment of time, training, money, trust, and exposure to Confidential Information, I am intimately involved in the planning and direction of the Company s global business operations. (b) Consideration: I acknowledge and agree that my execution of and compliance with this Agreement are material factors in the Company s decision to continue my employment and to provide me with the associated compensation and benefits, as well as access to Confidential Information that is not provided to other employees of the Company, which constitutes good and valuable consideration for the covenants set forth in this Agreement. (c) Potential Unfair Competition: I acknowledge and agree that, as a result of my receipt of Confidential Information, my role at UPS, and my relationships with UPS customers and or employees, I would have an unfair competitive advantage if I were to violate this Agreement. (d) No Undue Hardship: I acknowledge and agree that, in the event that my employment with the Company terminates for any reason, I possess marketable skills and abilities that will enable me to find suitable employment without violating the covenants set forth in this Agreement. (e) Voluntary Execution: I acknowledge and affirm that I am executing this Agreement voluntarily, that I have read this Agreement carefully, that I have had a full and reasonable opportunity to consider this Agreement (including actual consultation with legal counsel), and that I have not been pressured or in any way coerced, threatened or intimidated into signing this Agreement. (a) Cause means a termination of my employment by the Company due to one or more of the following: the commission of any felony or commission of a misdemeanor involving theft or moral turpitude and or commission of any act or omission that constitutes gross neglect or willful misconduct (other than periods of illness) or misconduct with respect to my employment duties that results in economic harm to the Company and or violation of any of the Company s substance abuse, compliance or any other material written policies that may be applicable to me and that may be in effect at the time of the occurrence and or a material breach of any material provision of this Agreement or any other agreements or understanding in effect at the time of the breach, between me and the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company or upon the instructions of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. (b) Company means United Parcel Service, Inc., a Delaware Corporation with its principal place of business in Atlanta, Georgia, and all of its Affiliates (as defined in O.C.G.A. 13-8-51(1)). (c) Confidential Information means all information regarding the Company, its activities, businesses or customers which I learned as a result of my employment, that is valuable to the Company and that is not generally disclosed by practice or authority to persons not employed or otherwise engaged by the Company, but that does not rise to the level of a Trade Secret. Confidential Information shall include, but is not limited to, financial plans and UPS PROTECTIVE COVENANT AGREEMENT Exhibit 10.19 data legal affairs management planning information business plans acquisition plans operational methods and technology market studies marketing plans or strategies product development techniques or plans customer lists details of customer contracts current and anticipated customer requirements and specifications customer pricing and profitability data past, current and planned research and development employee-related information and new personnel acquisition plans. Confidential Information shall not include information that is or becomes generally available to the public by the act of one who has the right to disclose such information without violating any right or privilege of the Company. However, although certain information may be generally known in the relevant industry, the fact that the Company uses such information may not be so known and in such instance the information would compromise Confidential Information. This definition shall not limit any definition of confidential information or any equivalent term under applicable state or federal law. (d) Protected Customers means customers or actively sought potential customers with whom I had material contact, which shall include customers or actively sought potential customers (i) who I dealt with on behalf of the Company (ii) whose dealings with the Company are or were coordinated or supervised by me or (iii) about whom I obtained Confidential Information as a result of my employment with the Company. (e) Protected Employee means an employee of the Company who is employed by the Company at the time of any solicitation or attempted solicitation by me. (f) Restricted Competitors means the companies and or organizations listed on the document entitled List Of Restricted Competitors provided to me separately by the Company, and incorporated herein by reference. (g) Restricted Period means during my employment with UPS and for a period of two (2) years after my employment ends for any reason. (h) Trade Secret means all of the Company s information that I learned about as a result of my employment, without regard to form, including, but not limited to, technical or nontechnical data, a formula, a pattern, a compilation, a program, a device, a method, a technique, a drawing, a process, financial data, financial plans, product plans, distribution lists or a list of actual or potential customers, advertisers or suppliers, that (i) derives economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use and (ii) is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy. This definition shall not limit any definition of trade secrets or any equivalent term under applicable law. Company to receive such information. I further agree that I will not, directly or indirectly, use or make use of any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets in connection with any business activity other than business activity that I am pursuing on behalf of the Company. I acknowledge and agree that this Agreement is not intended to, and does not, alter either the Company s rights or my obligations under any state or federal statutory or common law regarding trade secrets and unfair trade practices. I also understand that nothing contained in this Agreement limits my ability to communicate with any federal, state or local governmental agency or commission ( Government Agencies ) or otherwise participate in any investigation or proceeding that may be conducted by any Government Agencies in connection with any charge or complaint, whether filed by me, on my behalf, or by any other individual. I additionally understand and agree that if I make a confidential disclosure of a Company Trade Secret (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 1839) to a government official or an attorney for the sole purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law, or in a court filing under seal, I shall not be held liable under this Agreement or under any federal or state trade secret law for such a disclosure. 3. NON-DISCLOSURE AND PROHIBITION AGAINST USE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION AND TRADE SECRETS. I agree that I will not, directly or indirectly, reveal, divulge, or disclose any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets to any Person not expressly authorized by the away a Protected Customer for purposes of providing products and services that are competitive with those provided by the Company. a Restricted Competitor or (c) otherwise provide services to a Restricted Competitor that are similar to those services that I provided to the Company and that are competitive with the transportation, delivery or logistics services provided by the Company during my employment. I understand and agree that this non-compete provision is limited to the geographic area where the Company did business during my employment. will not unduly impair my ability to find other employment. In the event that I breach, or threaten to breach, the Protective Covenants, I agree that the Company shall have the right and remedy to, in addition to and not in lieu of any other remedy to which the Company may be entitled, enjoin me, preliminarily and permanently (without the necessity of posting bond), from violating or threatening to violate the Protective Covenants because any breach or threatened breach of the Protective Covenants would cause irreparable injury to the Company and that money damages would not provide an adequate remedy. Further, in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other remedy to which the Company may be entitled, no further payments or benefits of any kind that would otherwise inure to me shall accrue or be owed, and all future payments and benefits hereunder shall be forfeited, immediately upon my breach of any of the Protective Covenants. independent covenants. Should any part or provision of any of the Protective Covenants be held invalid, void or unenforceable in any court of competent jurisdiction, I understand and agree that such invalidity, voidness or unenforceability does not invalidate, void or otherwise render unenforceable any other part or provision of this Agreement. I further agree that, in the event any court of competent jurisdiction finds any of the Protective Covenants to be invalid or unenforceable (in whole or in part), the invalid or unreasonable term must be modified or redefined, or a new enforceable term provided, so that the Protective Covenants are enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. such violation, provided that such litigation was initiated during the period of the restriction. Employee to terminate his her employment relationship with the Company or to enter into employment with me or any other person or entity. 4. NON-SOLICITATION OF PROTECTED EMPLOYEES. During the Restricted Period, I will not, without the prior written consent of the Company, directly or indirectly, solicit or induce or attempt to solicit or induce any Protected 5. NON-SOLICITATION OF PROTECTED CUSTOMERS. During the Restricted Period, I will not, without the prior written consent of the Company, directly or indirectly, solicit, divert, take away or attempt to solicit, divert or take 6. COVENANT NOT TO COMPETE. During the Restricted Period, I will not, without the prior written consent of the Company, (a) work for a Restricted Competitor (b) provide advice or consulting services to 7. ENFORCEMENT OF PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. I acknowledge and agree that the covenants in Paragraphs 3-6 ( Protective Covenants ) are necessary to protect the Company s legitimate business interests, and that they 8. SEVERABILITY REFORMATION. I acknowledge and agree that the Protective Covenants are reasonable in time, scope and all other respects and that they will be considered and construed as separate and 9. TOLLING DURING LITIGATION. I understand and agree that if I violate any of the Protective Covenants, the period of restriction applicable to each obligation violated will not run during any litigation over and or information in my possession or control relating to the Company without retaining any copies in either electronic or hard copy form. I also agree that following my termination for any reason, or upon request from the Company, I will return all materials, documents, and or information that I received or created in connection with my work as a Key Employee, including but not limited to Confidential Information and Trade Secrets. Such documents, materials and information shall include, without limitation, documents, materials, equipment, keys, credit cards, financial information, correspondence, computer equipment and data, and other documents and things belonging to the Company, including but not limited to Confidential Information and Trade Secrets. authorized representative of the Company. I recognize that this Agreement is for personal services to be performed by me and, as a result, may not be assigned by me to any other Person. I further understand that the Company may assign this Agreement as required by the needs of the business. of Georgia have exclusive jurisdiction over any dispute relating to this Agreement and I specifically consent to personal jurisdiction in such courts, even if I no longer reside in Georgia at the time of any dispute arising out of or involving this Agreement. operate or be construed as a waiver of the same breach or another breach on a subsequent occasion. investor or lender prior to entering into an employment, partnership or other business relationship with such prospective employer, partner, co-venturer, investor or lender. or inducements regarding the making of this Agreement except as set out herein and the Offer Letter. This Agreement and the Offer Letter constitutes the entire agreement and understanding between me and the Company relating to the subjects described in this Agreement. For the sake of clarity, the document entitled List Of Restricted Competitors referenced above in Paragraph 2.(f) is incorporated herein by reference. 10. RETURN OF MATERIALS. Immediately following the termination of my employment for any reason or upon request from the Company at any other time, I agree to return all materials, documents, 11. AMENDMENT ASSIGNMENT. I understand and agree that this Agreement cannot be amended or modified unless such amendment or modification is made in writing and signed by me and a duly 12. GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION. I agree that, without regard to conflict of laws principles, the laws of the state of Georgia govern this Agreement in all respects. I further agree that the federal or state courts 13. WAIVER. I acknowledge that any waiver by the Company of any breach of this Agreement by me shall not be effective unless confirmed in writing, and that no such waiver shall 14. AT-WILL EMPLOYMENT. I understand that this Agreement does not create a contract of employment and that my employment relationship with the Company remains at-will. 15. DISCLOSURE OF AGREEMENT. In the event that I leave the Company for any reason, I agree to disclose the existence and terms of this Agreement to any prospective employer, partner, co-venturer, 16. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement shall be construed as a whole according to its fair meaning. It shall not be construed strictly for or against me or the Company. There have been no offers constitute the same instrument. The exchange of a fully executed Agreement (in counterparts or otherwise) by electronic transmission in .PDF format or by facsimile shall be sufficient to bind the parties to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. A facsimile or scanned (e.g., .PDF, .GIF, etc.) signature shall be deemed to be an original. 17. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original, and all of which together will [Signature Page Follows] IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement effective on the Effective Date. [Signature Page to UPS Protective Covenant Agreement] United Parcel Service, Inc. By: Title: Date: [NAME] Date: April 14, 2020 Nando Cesarone United Parcel Service, Inc. 55 Glenlake Parkway NE Atlanta, Georgia 30328 Dear Nando, I am pleased to offer you a special retention award ( Retention Award ) to further incentivize you to continue your employment with UPS. The Retention Award is in addition to any benefits and incentives you may already be entitled to receive pursuant to other agreements you have UPS. Retention Award Your Retention Award will consist of a restricted stock unit ( RSU ) award made pursuant to (and subject to the terms and conditions of) the United Parcel Service, Inc. 2018 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan ( Omnibus Plan ) and applicable award agreements. The award agreements will contain vesting schedules and other terms and conditions of the awards. You will receive a one-time grant of RSUs valued at 3,000,000. The number of RSUs granted will be calculated by dividing 3,000,000 by the closing price of UPS Class B common stock on the grant date of the award (grant date). The grant date will be the date approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. This award will vest as follows: 25 percent on the first anniversary of the grant date, 25 percent on the second anniversary of the grant date, and 50 percent on the third anniversary of the grant date, subject to your continued employment through each applicable vesting date. Promptly following each vesting date, UPS Class A common stock equal to your vested award amount will be issued to you (net of tax withholdings). However, if your employment is terminated by UPS without Cause (as defined in the Protective Covenant Agreement between you and UPS), or due to your disability, or if your employment is terminated by you for Good Reason (as defined below), your unvested RSUs will continue to vest on the schedule set out above and UPS Class A common stock equal to your vested award amount will be issued to you (net of tax withholdings) promptly following each vesting date. If your employment is terminated by reason of death, your unvested RSUs will become fully vested and the shares attributable thereto will be transferred to your estate within 90 days. Additional Terms 1. You will be an at-will employee, which means either you or UPS may terminate your employment at any time and for any reason. 2. As used in this letter, the term Good Reason means the termination of your employment by you following the occurrence of any of the following events or conditions, other than in connection with a termination of your employment for Cause or due to your disability: (a) a material and substantial diminution in your authority, duties or responsibilities, including requiring you to regularly report to anyone other than UPS s Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating Officer or (b) a material reduction in your base salary, provided that an across-the-board reduction in the salary level of substantially all other individuals in positions similar to yours by a similar percentage amount shall not constitute such a salary reduction. Provided, however, Good Reason will not exist unless and until (a) you reasonably determine in good faith that a Good Reason condition has occurred (b) you first notify UPS (c o the Chief Human Resources Officer) in writing describing in reasonable detail the condition which constitutes Good Reason within thirty (30 days) of its initial occurrence (c) UPS fails to cure such condition within thirty (30) days after its receipt of such written notice, and you have cooperated in good faith with UPS s efforts to cure such condition (d) notwithstanding such efforts, the Good Reason condition continues to exist and (e) you terminate your employment within thirty (30) days after the end of such thirty (30)-day cure period. If UPS Exhibit 10.20 If you have any questions please let me know. Sincerely, S CHARLENE THOMAS Charlene Thomas Chief Human Resources Officer 3. Your Retention Award is contingent upon you signing the Protective Covenant Agreement referred to above. This agreement protects the UPS s intellectual property, talent and competitive advantages. You are encouraged to read this agreement carefully and make sure that you understand its terms. In summary, the restrictions set forth in the agreement include: 4. If there are any inconsistencies between this letter and the official terms and condition in the Ominbus Plan and or the related award agreements, the Omnibus Plan documents and or award agreements control. cures the Good Reason condition during such cure period, Good Reason will be deemed not to have occurred. A prohibition on disclosure of the UPS s confidential information A non-compete provision covering all domestic and worldwide geographic areas in which UPS does business in the transportation and logistics industries and A prohibition on recruiting or soliciting employees and customers. Acceptance I have read the offer of continued at-will employment UPS has presented to me in this letter. I understand and agree that if I choose to accept UPS s offer that my employment at UPS is and will remain at-will and that both UPS and I will have the right to terminate the employment relationship at any time and for any reason without prior notice. I also understand and agree that neither company policy, practice nor employee statements to me can alter the at-will status of my employment. My status as an at-will employee may be modified only by a written employment agreement so specifying and signed by an authorized officer of UPS. ACCEPTED BY: S NANDO CESARONE (Nando Cesarone) April 15, 2020 (Date) April 7, 2020 Kate Gutmann United Parcel Service, Inc. 55 Glenlake Parkway NE Atlanta, Georgia 30328 Dear Kate, I am pleased to offer you a special retention award ( Retention Award ) to further incentivize you to continue your employment with UPS. The Retention Award is in addition to any benefits and incentives you may already be entitled to receive pursuant to other agreements you have UPS. Retention Award Your Retention Award will consist of a restricted stock unit ( RSU ) award made pursuant to (and subject to the terms and conditions of) the United Parcel Service, Inc. 2018 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan ( Omnibus Plan ) and applicable award agreements. The award agreements will contain vesting schedules and other terms and conditions of the awards. You will receive a one-time grant of RSUs valued at 3,000,000. The number of RSUs granted will be calculated by dividing 3,000,000 by the closing price of UPS Class B common stock on the grant date of the award (grant date). The grant date will be the date approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. This award will vest as follows: 25 percent on the first anniversary of the grant date, 25 percent on the second anniversary of the grant date, and 50 percent on the third anniversary of the grant date, subject to your continued employment through each applicable vesting date. Promptly following each vesting date, UPS Class A common stock equal to your vested award amount will be issued to you (net of tax withholdings). However, if your employment is terminated by UPS without Cause (as defined in the Protective Covenant Agreement between you and UPS), or due to your disability, or if your employment is terminated by you for Good Reason (as defined below), your unvested RSUs will continue to vest on the schedule set out above and UPS Class A common stock equal to your vested award amount will be issued to you (net of tax withholdings) promptly following each vesting date. If your employment is terminated by reason of death, your unvested RSUs will become fully vested and the shares attributable thereto will be transferred to your estate within 90 days. Additional Terms 1. You will be an at-will employee, which means either you or UPS may terminate your employment at any time and for any reason. 2. As used in this letter, the term Good Reason means the termination of your employment by you following the occurrence of any of the following events or conditions, other than in connection with a termination of your employment for Cause or due to your disability: (a) a material and substantial diminution in your authority, duties or responsibilities, including requiring you to regularly report to anyone other than UPS s Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating Officer or (b) a material reduction in your base salary, provided that an across-the-board reduction in the salary level of substantially all other individuals in positions similar to yours by a similar percentage amount shall not constitute such a salary reduction. Provided, however, Good Reason will not exist unless and until (a) you reasonably determine in good faith that a Good Reason condition has occurred (b) you first notify UPS (c o the Chief Human Resources Officer) in writing describing in reasonable detail the condition which constitutes Good Reason within thirty (30 days) of its initial occurrence (c) UPS fails to cure such condition within thirty (30) days after its receipt of such written notice, and you have cooperated in good faith with UPS s efforts to cure such Exhibit 10.21 If you have any questions please let me know. Sincerely, S CHARLENE THOMAS Charlene Thomas Chief Human Resources Officer 3. Your Retention Award is contingent upon you signing the Protective Covenant Agreement referred to above. This agreement protects the UPS s intellectual property, talent and competitive advantages. You are encouraged to read this agreement carefully and make sure that you understand its terms. In summary, the restrictions set forth in the agreement include: 4. If there are any inconsistencies between this letter and the official terms and condition in the Ominbus Plan and or the related award agreements, the Omnibus Plan documents and or award agreements control. condition (d) notwithstanding such efforts, the Good Reason condition continues to exist and (e) you terminate your employment within thirty (30) days after the end of such thirty (30)-day cure period. If UPS cures the Good Reason condition during such cure period, Good Reason will be deemed not to have occurred. A prohibition on disclosure of the UPS s confidential information A non-compete provision covering all domestic and worldwide geographic areas in which UPS does business in the transportation and logistics industries and A prohibition on recruiting or soliciting employees and customers. Acceptance I have read the offer of continued at-will employment UPS has presented to me in this letter. I understand and agree that if I choose to accept UPS s offer that my employment at UPS is and will remain at-will and that both UPS and I will have the right to terminate the employment relationship at any time and for any reason without prior notice. I also understand and agree that neither company policy, practice nor employee statements to me can alter the at-will status of my employment. My status as an at-will employee may be modified only by a written employment agreement so specifying and signed by an authorized officer of UPS. ACCEPTED BY: S KATE GUTMANN (Kate Gutmann) April 15, 2020 (Date) April 7, 2020 Juan Perez United Parcel Service, Inc. 55 Glenlake Parkway NE Atlanta, Georgia 30328 Dear Juan, I am pleased to offer you a special retention award ( Retention Award ) to further incentivize you to continue your employment with UPS. The Retention Award is in addition to any benefits and incentives you may already be entitled to receive pursuant to other agreements you have UPS. Retention Award Your Retention Award will consist of a restricted stock unit ( RSU ) award made pursuant to (and subject to the terms and conditions of) the United Parcel Service, Inc. 2018 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan ( Omnibus Plan ) and applicable award agreements. The award agreements will contain vesting schedules and other terms and conditions of the awards. You will receive a one-time grant of RSUs valued at 3,000,000. The number of RSUs granted will be calculated by dividing 3,000,000 by the closing price of UPS Class B common stock on the grant date of the award (grant date). The grant date will be the date approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. This award will vest as follows: 25 percent on the first anniversary of the grant date, 25 percent on the second anniversary of the grant date, and 50 percent on the third anniversary of the grant date, subject to your continued employment through each applicable vesting date. Promptly following each vesting date, UPS Class A common stock equal to your vested award amount will be issued to you (net of tax withholdings). However, if your employment is terminated by UPS without Cause (as defined in the Protective Covenant Agreement between you and UPS), or due to your disability, or if your employment is terminated by you for Good Reason (as defined below), your unvested RSUs will continue to vest on the schedule set out above and UPS Class A common stock equal to your vested award amount will be issued to you (net of tax withholdings) promptly following each vesting date. If your employment is terminated by reason of death, your unvested RSUs will become fully vested and the shares attributable thereto will be transferred to your estate within 90 days. Additional Terms 1. You will be an at-will employee, which means either you or UPS may terminate your employment at any time and for any reason. 2. As used in this letter, the term Good Reason means the termination of your employment by you following the occurrence of any of the following events or conditions, other than in connection with a termination of your employment for Cause or due to your disability: (a) a material and substantial diminution in your authority, duties or responsibilities, including requiring you to regularly report to anyone other than UPS s Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating Officer or (b) a material reduction in your base salary, provided that an across-the-board reduction in the salary level of substantially all other individuals in positions similar to yours by a similar percentage amount shall not constitute such a salary reduction. Provided, however, Good Reason will not exist unless and until (a) you reasonably determine in good faith that a Good Reason condition has occurred (b) you first notify UPS (c o the Chief Human Resources Officer) in writing describing in reasonable detail the condition which constitutes Good Reason within thirty (30 days) of its initial occurrence (c) UPS fails to cure such condition within thirty (30) days after its receipt of such written notice, and you have cooperated in good faith with UPS s efforts to cure such condition (d) notwithstanding such efforts, the Good Reason condition continues to exist and (e) you terminate your employment within thirty (30) days after the end of such thirty (30)-day cure period. If UPS Exhibit 10.22 If you have any questions please let me know. Sincerely, S CHARLENE THOMAS Charlene Thomas Chief Human Resources Officer 3. Your Retention Award is contingent upon you signing the Protective Covenant Agreement referred to above. This agreement protects the UPS s intellectual property, talent and competitive advantages. You are encouraged to read this agreement carefully and make sure that you understand its terms. In summary, the restrictions set forth in the agreement include: 4. If there are any inconsistencies between this letter and the official terms and condition in the Ominbus Plan and or the related award agreements, the Omnibus Plan documents and or award agreements control. cures the Good Reason condition during such cure period, Good Reason will be deemed not to have occurred. A prohibition on disclosure of the UPS s confidential information A non-compete provision covering all domestic and worldwide geographic areas in which UPS does business in the transportation and logistics industries and A prohibition on recruiting or soliciting employees and customers. Acceptance I have read the offer of continued at-will employment UPS has presented to me in this letter. I understand and agree that if I choose to accept UPS s offer that my employment at UPS is and will remain at-will and that both UPS and I will have the right to terminate the employment relationship at any time and for any reason without prior notice. I also understand and agree that neither company policy, practice nor employee statements to me can alter the at-will status of my employment. My status as an at-will employee may be modified only by a written employment agreement so specifying and signed by an authorized officer of UPS. ACCEPTED BY: S JUAN PEREZ (Juan Perez) April 14, 2020 (Date) April 7, 2020 George Willis United Parcel Service, Inc. 55 Glenlake Parkway NE Atlanta, Georgia 30328 Dear George, I am pleased to offer you a special retention award ( Retention Award ) to further incentivize you to continue your employment with UPS. The Retention Award is in addition to any benefits and incentives you may already be entitled to receive pursuant to other agreements you have UPS. Retention Award Your Retention Award will consist of a restricted stock unit ( RSU ) award made pursuant to (and subject to the terms and conditions of) the United Parcel Service, Inc. 2018 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan ( Omnibus Plan ) and applicable award agreements. The award agreements will contain vesting schedules and other terms and conditions of the awards. You will receive a one-time grant of RSUs valued at 4,000,000. The number of RSUs granted will be calculated by dividing 4,000,000 by the closing price of UPS Class B common stock on the grant date of the award (grant date). The grant date will be the date approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. This award will vest as follows: 25 percent on the first anniversary of the grant date, 25 percent on the second anniversary of the grant date, and 50 percent on the third anniversary of the grant date, subject to your continued employment through each applicable vesting date. Promptly following each vesting date, UPS Class A common stock equal to your vested award amount will be issued to you (net of tax withholdings). However, if your employment is terminated by UPS without Cause (as defined in the Protective Covenant Agreement between you and UPS), or due to your disability, or if your employment is terminated by you for Good Reason (as defined below), your unvested RSUs will continue to vest on the schedule set out above and UPS Class A common stock equal to your vested award amount will be issued to you (net of tax withholdings) promptly following each vesting date. If your employment is terminated by reason of death, your unvested RSUs will become fully vested and the shares attributable thereto will be transferred to your estate within 90 days. Additional Terms 1. You will be an at-will employee, which means either you or UPS may terminate your employment at any time and for any reason. 2. As used in this letter, the term Good Reason means the termination of your employment by you following the occurrence of any of the following events or conditions, other than in connection with a termination of your employment for Cause or due to your disability: (a) a material and substantial diminution in your authority, duties or responsibilities, including requiring you to regularly report to anyone other than UPS s Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating Officer or (b) a material reduction in your base salary, provided that an across-the-board reduction in the salary level of substantially all other individuals in positions similar to yours by a similar percentage amount shall not constitute such a salary reduction. Exhibit 10.23 If you have any questions please let me know. Sincerely, S CHARLENE THOMAS Charlene Thomas Chief Human Resources Officer 3. Your Retention Award is contingent upon you signing the Protective Covenant Agreement referred to above. This agreement protects the UPS s intellectual property, talent and competitive advantages. You are encouraged to read this agreement carefully and make sure that you understand its terms. In summary, the restrictions set forth in the agreement include: 4. If there are any inconsistencies between this letter and the official terms and condition in the Ominbus Plan and or the related award agreements, the Omnibus Plan documents and or award agreements control. Provided, however, Good Reason will not exist unless and until (a) you reasonably determine in good faith that a Good Reason condition has occurred (b) you first notify UPS (c o the Chief Human Resources Officer) in writing describing in reasonable detail the condition which constitutes Good Reason within thirty (30 days) of its initial occurrence (c) UPS fails to cure such condition within thirty (30) days after its receipt of such written notice, and you have cooperated in good faith with UPS s efforts to cure such condition (d) notwithstanding such efforts, the Good Reason condition continues to exist and (e) you terminate your employment within thirty (30) days after the end of such thirty (30)-day cure period. If UPS cures the Good Reason condition during such cure period, Good Reason will be deemed not to have occurred. A prohibition on disclosure of the UPS s confidential information A non-compete provision covering all domestic and worldwide geographic areas in which UPS does business in the transportation and logistics industries and A prohibition on recruiting or soliciting employees and customers. Acceptance I have read the offer of continued at-will employment UPS has presented to me in this letter. I understand and agree that if I choose to accept UPS s offer that my employment at UPS is and will remain at-will and that both UPS and I will have the right to terminate the employment relationship at any time and for any reason without prior notice. I also understand and agree that neither company policy, practice nor employee statements to me can alter the at-will status of my employment. My status as an at-will employee may be modified only by a written employment agreement so specifying and signed by an authorized officer of UPS. ACCEPTED BY: S GEORGE WILLIS (George Willis) April 15, 2020 (Date) The names of particular subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(21)(ii) of Regulation S-K. BT Property Holdings, Inc. Delaware BT Realty II, Inc. Maryland BT Realty, Inc. Maryland C.C. & E. I, L.L.C. Delaware Coyote Logistics, LLC Delaware Coyote Logistics Midco, Inc. Delaware UPS Asia Group Pte. Ltd. Singapore United Parcel Service Canada Ltd. Canada United Parcel Service Co. Delaware United Parcel Service General Services Co. Delaware United Parcel Service Italia SRL Italy United Parcel Service Nederland BV Netherlands United Parcel Service of America, Inc. Delaware United Parcel Service LLC & Co. OHG Germany United Parcel Service, Inc. Ohio UPICO Corporation Delaware UPINSCO, Inc. Georgia United Parcel Service Deutschland S. r.l. & Co. OHG Germany UPS Expedited Mail Services, Inc. Delaware United Parcel Service France SAS France UPS Global Treasury Plc United Kingdom UPS Ground Freight, Inc. Virginia UPS Grundstucksverwaltungs GmbH Germany UPS Limited United Kingdom UPS SCS, Inc. Canada UPS Supply Chain Solutions, Inc. Delaware UPS Worldwide Forwarding, Inc. Delaware Name of Subsidiary Jurisdiction of Organization SUBSIDIARIES OF UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. As of December 31, 2020 Exhibit 21 208151, 333-206239, 333-181436, 333-70708, and 333-61112 on Form S-8 of our reports dated February 22, 2021, relating to the financial statements of United Parcel Service, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company ) (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph related to the Company's change in method of accounting for leases due to the adoption of a new accounting standard), and the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. s Deloitte & Touche LLP Atlanta, Georgia February 22, 2021 We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-234175 and 333-112329 on Form S-3 and Registration Statement Nos. 333-224928, 333- CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM Exhibit 23 I, Carol B. Tom , certify that: February 22, 2021 1 I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of United Parcel Service, Inc. 2 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report 3 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report 4 The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation and (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting and 5 The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information and (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. S CAROL B. TOM (Principal Executive Officer) Chief Executive Officer Carol B. Tom CERTIFICATE OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER Exhibit 31.1 I, Brian O. Newman, certify that: February 22, 2021 1 I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of United Parcel Service, Inc. 2 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report 3 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report 4 The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation and (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting and 5 The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information and (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer S BRIAN O. NEWMAN (Principal Financial Officer) Brian O. Newman CERTIFICATE OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER Exhibit 31.2 the year ended December 31, 2020, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report ), the undersigned, the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, certifies that: February 22, 2021 Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and in connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of United Parcel Service, Inc. (the Corporation ) for (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation. S CAROL B. TOM (Principal Executive Officer) Chief Executive Officer Carol B. Tom CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 Exhibit 32.1 the year ended December 31, 2020, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report ), the undersigned, the Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Corporation, certifies that: February 22, 2021 Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and in connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of United Parcel Service, Inc. (the Corporation ) for (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation. Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer S BRIAN O. NEWMAN (Principal Financial Officer) Brian O. Newman CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 Exhibit 32.2