2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 1 169 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None. Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No o Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes x No o company or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of large accelerated filer , accelerated filer , smaller reporting company , and emerging growth company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. most recently completed second fiscal quarter as reported on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Transactions) was 174.0 billion. All executive officers and directors of the registrant and all persons filing a Schedule 13D with the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect to registrant s common stock have been deemed, solely for the purpose of the foregoing calculation, to be affiliates of the registrant. Large accelerated filer x Accelerated filer Non-accelerated filer Smaller reporting company Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes x No o Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes No x Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management s assessment of the effectiveness of its Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes No x The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates (based on the closing price on the last business day of the registrant s There were 1,810,485,037 shares of common stock outstanding as of November 18, 2020. ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Common Stock, 0.01 par value DIS New York Stock Exchange Incorporation or Organization State or Other Jurisdiction of I.R.S. Employer Identification Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered Delaware 83-0940635 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION For the transition period from to . Registrant s Telephone Number, Including Area Code Address of Principal Executive Offices and Zip Code For the fiscal year ended October 3, 2020 Documents Incorporated by Reference Commission File Number 001-38842 500 South Buena Vista Street Burbank, California 91521 Washington, D.C. 20549 UNITED STATES (818) 560-1000 Emerging growth company 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 2 169 meeting of the Company s shareholders. Certain information required for Part III of this report is incorporated herein by reference to the proxy statement for the 2021 annual 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 3 169 ITEM 1. Business 1 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 20 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 ITEM 2. Properties 29 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 30 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 30 Executive Officers of the Company 30 ITEM 5. Market for the Company s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 33 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 61 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 62 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 62 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 62 ITEM 9B. Other Information 62 ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 63 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 63 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 63 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 63 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 63 ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 64 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 68 SIGNATURES 69 Consolidated Financial Information The Walt Disney Company 70 THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES TABLE OF CONTENTS 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 4 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1. Business in the following business segments: Media Networks Parks, Experiences and Products Studio Entertainment and Direct-to- Consumer & International (DTCI). In October 2020, the Company announced a strategic reorganization of our media and entertainment businesses to accelerate the growth of our direct-to-consumer (DTC) strategy. The operations of the Media Networks, Studio Entertainment and DTCI segments were reorganized into four groups: three content groups (Studios, General Entertainment and Sports), which are focused on developing and producing content that will be used across all of our traditional and DTC platforms and a distribution group, which is focused on distribution and commercialization activities across these platforms and which has full accountability for media and entertainment operating results globally. subsidiaries through which businesses are conducted. COVID-19 Pandemic coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. COVID-19 and measures to prevent its spread impacted our segments in a number of ways, most significantly at Parks, Experiences and Products where our theme parks were closed or operating at significantly reduced capacity for a significant portion of the year, cruise ship sailings and guided tours were suspended since late in the second quarter and retail stores were closed for a significant portion of the year. We also had an adverse impact on our merchandise licensing business. Our Studio Entertainment segment has delayed, or in some cases, shortened or cancelled, theatrical releases, and stage play performances have been suspended since late in the second quarter. We also had adverse impacts on advertising sales at Media Networks and Direct-to-Consumer & International. Since March 2020, we have experienced significant disruptions in the production and availability of content, including the shift of key live sports programming from our third quarter to the fourth quarter and into fiscal 2021 as well as the suspension of production of most film and television content since late in the second quarter, although some film and television production resumed in the fourth quarter. by the length of time that such disruptions continue, which will, in turn, depend on the currently unknowable duration and severity of the impacts of COVID-19, and among other things, the impact of governmental actions imposed in response to COVID-19 and individuals and companies risk tolerance regarding health matters going forward. As some of our businesses have reopened, we have incurred additional costs to address government regulations and the safety of our employees, talent and guests. The reopening or closure of our businesses is dependent on applicable government requirements, which vary by location, are subject to ongoing changes, which could result from increasing COVID-19 cases. Human Capital support these objectives, the Company s human resources programs are designed to develop talent to prepare them for critical roles and leadership positions for the future reward and support employees through competitive pay, benefit, and perquisite programs enhance the Company s culture through efforts aimed at making the workplace more engaging and inclusive acquire talent and facilitate internal talent mobility to create a high-performing, diverse workforce engage employees as brand ambassadors of the Company s content, products and experiences and evolve and invest in technology, tools, and resources to enable employees at work. approximately 80% full time and 20% part time employees, with nearly 1% of the part time population being seasonal employees. Of the total population as of October 3, 2020, approximately 155,000 of our employees worked in the Parks, Experiences and Products segment. The Walt Disney Company, together with its subsidiaries, is a diversified worldwide entertainment company with operations The terms Company , we , our and us are used in this report to refer collectively to the parent company and the During fiscal 2020 and continuing into fiscal 2021, the world has been, and continues to be, impacted by the novel The impact of these disruptions and the extent of their adverse impact on our financial and operating results will be dictated The Company s key human capital management objectives are to attract, retain and develop the highest quality talent. To The Company employed approximately 203,000 people as of October 3, 2020. Our global workforce is comprised of Some examples of key programs and initiatives that are focused to attract, develop and retain our diverse workforce include: Diversity and inclusion (D&I). Our D&I objectives are to build teams that reflect the life experiences of our audiences, while employing and supporting a diverse array of voices in our creative and production content. Established six pillars that serve as the foundation for our D&I commitments transparency, accountability, representation, content, community, and culture Created a pipeline of next-generation creative executives from underrepresented backgrounds through programs such as the Executive Incubator, Creative Talent Development and Inclusion (CTDI), and the Disney Launchpad: Shorts Incubator 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 5 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Company has generated efficiencies in its staffing, including limiting hiring to critical business roles, furloughs and reductions-in- force. As part of these actions, the employment of approximately 32,000 employees primarily at Parks, Experiences and Products will terminate in the first half of fiscal 2021. Additionally, as of October 3, 2020, approximately 37,000 employees who are not scheduled for employment termination were on furlough as a result of COVID-19 s impact on our businesses. Direct-to-Consumer Marvel, Star Wars and National Geographic branded content in the U.S. and four other countries and has expanded to select Western European countries in the Spring of 2020. In April, our Hotstar service in India was converted to Disney Hotstar, and in June 2020, current subscribers of the Disney Deluxe service in Japan were converted to Disney . In September 2020, Disney was launched in additional European countries and Disney Hotstar was launched in Indonesia. In November 2020, Disney was launched in Latin America. Additional launches are planned for various Asia-Pacific territories in calendar 2021. U.S. in calendar year 2021. TFCF Acquisition global media and entertainment company, which was subsequently renamed TFCF Corporation (TFCF). As a result of the Health, wellness and family resources. Disney s benefit offerings are designed to meet the varied and evolving needs of a diverse workforce across businesses and geographies. Because we want our employees and their families to thrive, this year, we enhanced the ways we help our employees care for themselves and their families, especially in response to COVID-19 Disney Aspire. We support the long-term career aspirations of our hourly employees through education and personal development. We pay tuition costs at a network of schools and aim to help our hourly employees put their career goals within reach by equipping them with degree programs, coaching and job skills designed for a rapidly changing workplace and workforce Talent Development. We prioritize and invest in creating opportunities to help employees grow and build their careers, through a multitude of training and development programs. These include online, instructor-led and on-the-job learning formats as well as executive talent and succession planning paired with an individualized development approach Community & Social Impact. We are committed to providing comfort to those in need and inspiration and opportunity to those who want to improve their world. One primary way we do this is through our unique employee volunteer program - Disney VoluntEARS. Throughout the year, employees make a positive impact in their local communities and have found a multitude of special ways to continue volunteering during the pandemic Due to the current climate, including COVID-19 impacts, and changing environment in which we are operating, the In November 2019, the Company launched Disney , a subscription-based DTC video streaming service with Disney, Pixar, The Company also plans to launch a general entertainment DTC video streaming offering under the Star brand outside the On March 20, 2019, the Company acquired the outstanding capital stock of Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc., a diversified Championed targeted development programs for underrepresented talent Hosted a series of culture-changing, innovation and learning opportunities to spark dialogue among employees, leaders, Disney talent and external experts Sponsored over 70 employee-led Business Employee Resource Groups (BERGs) that represent and support the diverse communities that make up our workforce. The BERGs facilitate networking and connections with peers, outreach and mentoring, leadership and skill development and cross-cultural business innovation Healthcare options for employees in Florida and Southern California, aimed at reducing out-of-pocket costs Coverage of all COVID-19 testing and treatment under all Company medical plans at no cost to the employees and dependents Child care programs for employees, including access to onsite community centers, enhanced back-up care choices to include personal caregivers, child care referral assistance and center discounts, homework help and a variety of parenting educational resources Free mental and behavioral health resources, including on-demand access to the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) for employees and their dependents Investment of 150 million in Aspire s first five years to cover 100% of tuition, books and education fees Access to a wide variety of degree, certificate, high school completion, college start, language learning and trades programs Chosen fields of study do not have to be related to an employee s current position, and employees do not have to stay at the Company upon completion of their studies 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 6 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS acquisition, the Company s ownership interest in Hulu, LLC (Hulu), a general entertainment DTC video streaming service, increased to 60% (67% as of October 3, 2020), and the Company started consolidating the results of Hulu as of the acquisition date. See Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the TFCF and Hulu transactions. MEDIA NETWORKS Domestic Cable Networks production operations and third parties. The majority of the domestic cable networks revenue is derived from affiliate fees and advertising sales. Generally, the Company s cable networks provide programming under multi-year licensing agreements with MVPDs that include contractually specified rates on a per subscriber basis. The amounts that we can charge to MVPDs for our cable network programming is largely dependent on the quality and quantity of programming that we can provide and the competitive market for programming services. The ability to sell advertising time and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand. We also sell programs developed by our cable networks worldwide to television broadcasters, to subscription video-on-demand (SVOD) services (such as Netflix and Amazon) and in home entertainment formats (such as DVD, Blu-ray and electronic home video license). A significant portion of our programs are sold to the DTCI segment for use on our DTC offerings. As such, we are forgoing certain licensing revenue from the sale of this content to third parties in TV SVOD markets. Significant operations: Disney, ESPN, Freeform, FX and National Geographic branded domestic cable networks ABC branded broadcast television network and eight owned domestic television stations Television production and distribution A 50% equity investment in A E Television Networks (A E) Significant revenues: Affiliate fees - Fees charged to multi-channel video programming distributors (i.e. cable, satellite, telecommunications and digital over-the-top (OTT) (e.g. Hulu, YouTube TV) service providers) (MVPDs) and to television stations affiliated with the ABC Network for the right to deliver our programming to their customers Advertising - Sales of advertising time space on our domestic networks and related platforms ( ratings-based ad sales , which excludes advertising on digital platforms that is not ratings-based), and the sale of advertising time on our domestic television stations. Ratings-based ad sales are generally determined using viewership measured with Nielsen ratings. Non- ratings-based advertising on digital platforms is reported by DTCI TV SVOD distribution - Licensing fees and other revenues from the right to use our television programs and productions and revenue from content transactions with other Company segments ( program sales ) Significant expenses: Operating expenses consisting primarily of programming and production costs, participations and residuals expense, technical support costs, operating labor and distribution costs Selling, general and administrative costs Depreciation and amortization Our domestic cable networks produce their own programs and also acquire programming rights from our television and film 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 7 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Media Research as of September 2020 (except where noted) are as follows: includes internally developed and acquired programming. The Disney branded channels also provide programming for video-on- demand (VOD) services and through the DisneyNOW App and website, both of which are operated by DTCI. ages 2 to 14. Disney Channel develops and produces shows for exhibition on its channel, including live-action comedy series, animated programming and preschool series, as well as original movies. Disney Channel also airs content from Disney s theatrical film and television programming library. parents and caregivers. The channel features animated and live-action programming that blends Disney s storytelling and characters with learning. Disney Junior also airs as a programming block on the Disney Channel. features a mix of live-action and animated programming. ESPN operates nine 24-hour domestic television sports channels: ESPN and ESPN2 (both of which are sports channels dedicated to professional and college sports as well as sports news and original programming), ESPNU (which is devoted to college sports), ESPNEWS (which simulcasts weekday ESPN Radio programming, re-airs select ESPN studio shows and airs a variety of other programming), SEC Network (which is dedicated to Southeastern Conference college athletics), ESPN Classic (which airs rebroadcasts of famous sporting events, sports documentaries and sports-themed movies), Longhorn Network (which is dedicated to The University of Texas athletics), ESPN Deportes (which airs professional and Freeform 85 National Geographic Disney Channel 85 Disney Junior 66 Disney XD 66 SEC Network 57 National Geographic 85 National Geographic Wild 60 The Company s significant domestic cable channels and the number of subscribers (in millions) as estimated by Nielsen Branded television channels include Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD. Programming for these channels Disney Channel - the domestic Disney Channel airs original series and movie programming 24 hours a day targeted to kids Disney Junior - the domestic Disney Junior channel airs programming 24 hours a day targeted to kids ages 2 to 7 and their Disney XD - the domestic Disney XD channel airs programming 24 hours a day targeted to kids ages 6 to 11. The channel ESPN is a multimedia sports entertainment company owned 80% by the Company and 20% by Hearst Corporation (Hearst). As a result of COVID-19, we understand there have been disruptions in Nielsen Media Research s ability to collect in- home data, which may have had an impact on the estimated subscriber counts at September 2020. Because Nielsen Media Research does not measure this channel, estimated subscribers are according to SNL Kagan as of December 2019. Estimates include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts. Subscribers 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 8 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS college sports, as well as studio shows in Spanish), and ACC Network (which is dedicated to Atlantic Coast Conference college athletics). ESPN programs the sports schedule on the ABC Television Network, which is branded ESPN on ABC. and the College Football Playoff) and basketball, the National Basketball Association (NBA), the National Football League (NFL), Major League Baseball (MLB), US Open Tennis, the Professional Golfers Association (PGA) Championship, the Women s National Basketball Association (WNBA), various soccer rights, Top Rank Boxing, the Wimbledon Championships and the Masters golf tournament. programming rights from our television and theatrical production businesses and from third parties, and features branded holiday programming events. Freeform content is also available through VOD services and through the Freeform App and website, both of which are operated by DTCI. acquired programming. Internally produced programming for the 2020 2021 season includes two returning and one new one-hour dramas, nine returning half-hour comedies, and three new and one returning non-scripted series. the Company s libraries. content from the Company s film and television libraries. The channel also airs original television series. National Geographic (collectively the National Geographic Channels)) and publishes the National Geographic magazines. The National Geographic Channels air scripted and documentary programming on such topics as natural history, adventure, science, exploration and culture. National Geographic is owned 73% by the Company and 27% by the National Geographic Society. Broadcasting eight owned domestic television stations. Domestic Broadcast Television Network approximately 240 local television stations reaching almost 100% of U.S. television households. ABC broadcasts programs in the primetime, daytime, late night, news and sports dayparts . ESPN holds rights for various professional and college sports programming including college football (including bowl games ESPN provides programming for the following, which are operated by DTCI: ESPN.com delivers sports news, information and video on internet-connected devices, with approximately 20 editions in three languages globally. In the U.S., ESPN.com also features live video streams of ESPN channels to authenticated MVPD subscribers. Non-subscribers have limited access to certain content. ESPN App delivers scores, news, stories, highlights, short form video, podcasts and live audio, with fourteen editions in three languages globally. In the U.S., the ESPN App also features live video streams of ESPN s linear channels and exclusive events to authenticated MVPD subscribers. Non-subscribers have limited access to certain content. The ESPN App is available for download on various internet-connected devices. ESPN is a multi-sports subscription offering available through ESPN.com and the ESPN App. ESPN also operates the following: ESPN Radio distributes talk and play-by-play programming in the U.S. ESPN Radio network programming is carried on approximately 400 terrestrial stations, including four ESPN owned stations in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Dallas, and on satellite and internet radio. ESPN owns and operates the following events: ESPYs (annual awards show) X Games (winter and summer action sports competitions) and a portfolio of collegiate sporting events including: bowl games, basketball games, softball games and post-season award shows. Freeform is a channel targeted to viewers ages 18 to 34. Freeform produces original live-action programming, acquires Branded television channels include FX, FXM and FXX. Programming for these channels includes internally developed and FX - is a general entertainment channel that airs original series, acquired television series and films including content from FXX - is a general entertainment channel targeted to young adults that airs acquired television series and films as well as FXM - is a television channel that primarily airs films from the Company s library or acquired from third parties. National Geographic operates branded television channels (National Geographic, Nat Geo Wild and Nat Geo Mundo Our broadcasting business includes a domestic broadcast network, television production and distribution operations, and The Company operates the ABC Television Network (ABC), which as of October 3, 2020, had affiliation agreements with 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 9 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 10 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS by or affiliated with the Company. ABC derives the majority of its revenues from advertising sales and affiliate fees. The ability to sell advertising time and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand for time on broadcast networks. ABC also receives fees from affiliated television stations for the right to broadcast ABC programming. subscribers have more limited access to on-demand episodes. and third party distribution platforms. Television Production and Distribution Television (previously Fox 21 Television Studios) produce the majority of the Company s general entertainment television programs. Program development is carried out in collaboration with writers, producers and creative teams, with a focus on one- hour dramas and half-hour comedies, primarily for primetime broadcasts. news and daytime programming. entertainment formats. The Company has a significant library of television programming spanning approximately 70 years of production history. Series with four or more seasons include approximately 55 one-hour dramas and 40 half-hour comedies. Domestic Television Stations The television stations derive the majority of their revenues from advertising sales. The stations also receive affiliate fees from MVPDs. All of our television stations are affiliated with ABC and collectively reach approximately 20% of the nation s television households. Generally, each owned station broadcasts three digital channels: the first consists of local, ABC and syndicated programming the second is Localish (formerly the Live Well Network) and the third is the LAFF Network. Equity Investments of the financial results for these investments is reported as Equity in the income (loss) of investees, net in the ABC produces its own programs and also acquires programming rights from third parties as well as entities that are owned ABC network programming is available digitally on internet-connected devices to authenticated MVPD subscribers. Non- ABC provides online access to in-depth worldwide news and certain other programming through various Company operated ABC Signature (previously ABC Studios), 20th Television (previously Twentieth Century Fox Television) and Touchstone Programming produced either for our networks or for third-party platforms for the 2020 2021 television season includes: ABC Signature - seven returning and two new one-hour dramas and five returning and two new half-hour comedies 20th Television and Touchstone Television - fifteen returning and eight new one-hour dramas and nine returning and four new half-hour comedies The Company also produces Jimmy Kimmel Live for late night and a variety of primetime specials, as well as syndicated, We distribute the Company s productions worldwide to television broadcasters and SVOD services and in home The Company owns eight television stations, six of which are located in the top ten television household markets in the U.S. The stations we own are as follows: The Company has investments in media businesses that are accounted for under the equity method, and the Company s share Based on Nielsen Media Research, U.S. Television Household Estimates, January 1, 2020. TV Station Market WTVD Raleigh-Durham, NC 27 WABC New York, NY 1 KABC Los Angeles, CA 2 KTRK Houston, TX 8 KFSN Fresno, CA 55 WPVI Philadelphia, PA 4 KGO San Francisco, CA 6 WLS Chicago, IL 3 Television Market 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 11 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company s significant equity investments reported in the Media Networks segment are as follows: aimed at millennial audiences. under multi-year licensing agreements with MVPDs. A E programming is also sold to international television broadcasters and SVOD services. September 2020 is as follows: The Sports Networks (TSN) 1-5, Le R seau des Sports (RDS), RDS2, RDS Info, ESPN Classic Canada, Discovery Canada and Animal Planet Canada. Competition and Seasonality independent television stations and other media, such as DTC services and video games. With respect to the sale of advertising time, we compete with other television networks and radio stations, independent television stations, MVPDs and other advertising media such as digital content, newspapers, magazines and billboards. Our television and radio stations primarily compete for audiences and advertisers in local market areas. contractual agreements with MVPDs are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable, satellite and telecommunication distribution industry and other factors may adversely affect the Company s ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of its various programming services that are as favorable as those currently in place. production companies, SVOD providers and direct-to-consumer services for the acquisition of sports rights, talent, show concepts, scripted and other programming, and exhibition outlets. Lifetime 84 Viceland 63 A E is owned 50% by the Company and 50% by Hearst. A E operates a variety of cable channels: A&E which offers entertainment programming including original reality and scripted series HISTORY which offers original series and event-driven specials Lifetime and Lifetime Real Women which offer female-focused programming Lifetime Movie Network (LMN) which offers female-focused movies FYI which offers contemporary lifestyle programming A E also has a 50% ownership interest in Viceland, a channel offering lifestyle-oriented documentaries and reality series A E programming is available in approximately 200 countries and territories. A E s networks are distributed internationally The number of domestic subscribers (in millions) for A E channels as estimated by Nielsen Media Research as of ESPN holds a 30% equity interest in CTV Specialty Television, Inc., which owns television channels in Canada, including The Company s Media Networks businesses compete for viewers primarily with other broadcast and cable networks, The Company s Media Networks businesses face competition from other networks for carriage by MVPDs. The Company s The Company s Media Networks businesses also compete with other media and entertainment companies, independent The Company s internet websites and digital products compete with other websites and entertainment products. As a result of COVID-19, we understand there have been disruptions in Nielsen Media Research s ability to collect in- home data, which may have had an impact on the estimated subscriber counts at September 2020. Estimates include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts. Subscribers 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 12 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Revenues are typically somewhat higher during the fall and somewhat lower during the summer months. Affiliate fees are generally collected ratably throughout the year. Federal Regulation under federal laws and regulations, including the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Violation of FCC regulations can result in substantial monetary fines, limited renewals of licenses and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of a license. FCC regulations that affect our Media Networks segment include the following: and policies. Reference should be made to the Communications Act, other legislation, FCC rules and public notices and rulings of the FCC for further information concerning the nature and extent of the FCC s regulatory authority. Advertising revenues at Media Networks are subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels. Television and radio broadcasting are subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Licensing of television and radio stations. Each of the television and radio stations we own must be licensed by the FCC. These licenses are granted for periods of up to eight years, and we must obtain renewal of licenses as they expire in order to continue operating the stations. We (and the acquiring entity in the case of a divestiture) must also obtain FCC approval whenever we seek to have a license transferred in connection with the acquisition or divestiture of a station. The FCC may decline to renew or approve the transfer of a license in certain circumstances and may delay renewals while permitting a licensee to continue operating. Although we have received such renewals and approvals in the past or have been permitted to continue operations when renewal is delayed, there can be no assurance that this will be the case in the future. Television and radio station ownership limits. The FCC imposes limitations on the number of television stations and radio stations we can own in a specific market, on the combined number of television and radio stations we can own in a single market and on the aggregate percentage of the national audience that can be reached by television stations we own. Currently: Dual networks. FCC rules currently prohibit any of the four major broadcast television networks ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC from being under common ownership or control. Regulation of programming. The FCC regulates broadcast programming by, among other things, banning indecent programming, regulating political advertising and imposing commercial time limits during children s programming. Penalties for broadcasting indecent programming can be over 400 thousand per indecent utterance or image per station. Cable and satellite carriage of broadcast television stations. With respect to MVPDs operating within a television station s Designated Market Area, FCC rules require that every three years each television station elect either must carry status, pursuant to which MVPDs generally must carry a local television station in the station s market, or retransmission consent status, pursuant to which the MVPDs must negotiate with the television station to obtain the consent of the television station prior to carrying its signal. The ABC owned television stations have historically elected retransmission consent. Cable and satellite carriage of programming. The Communications Act and FCC rules regulate some aspects of negotiations regarding cable and satellite retransmission consent, and some cable and satellite distribution companies have sought regulation of additional aspects of the carriage of programming on cable and satellite systems. New legislation, court action or regulation in this area could have an impact on the Company s operations. The foregoing is a brief summary of certain provisions of the Communications Act, other legislation and specific FCC rules Federal legislation and FCC rules also limit the amount of commercial matter that may be shown on broadcast or cable channels during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. In addition, broadcast stations are generally required to provide an average of three hours per week of programming that has as a significant purpose meeting the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and younger. FCC rules also give television station owners the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance. FCC regulations may restrict our ability to own more than one television station in a market, depending on the size and nature of the market. We do not own more than one television station in any market. Federal statutes permit our television stations in the aggregate to reach a maximum of 39% of the national audience. Pursuant to the most recent decision by the FCC as to how to calculate compliance with this limit, our eight stations reach approximately 20% of the national audience. FCC regulations in some cases impose restrictions on our ability to acquire additional radio or television stations in the markets in which we own radio stations. We do not believe any such limitations are material to our current operating plans. 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 13 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS action or regulations, or a change in the extent of application or enforcement of current laws and regulations, would have an adverse impact on our operations. PARKS, EXPERIENCES AND PRODUCTS FCC laws and regulations are subject to change, and the Company generally cannot predict whether new legislation, court Significant operations: Parks & Experiences: Consumer Products: Significant revenues: Theme park admissions - Sales of tickets for admission to our theme parks Parks & Experiences merchandise, food and beverage - Sales of merchandise, food and beverages at our theme parks and resorts and cruise ships Resorts and vacations - Sales of room nights at hotels, sales of cruise and other vacations and sales and rentals of vacation club properties Merchandise licensing and retail: Parks licensing and other - Revenues from sponsorships and co-branding opportunities and real estate rent and sales. In addition, we earn royalties on Tokyo Disney Resort revenues. Significant expenses: Operating expenses consisting primarily of operating labor, costs of goods sold, infrastructure costs, supplies, commissions and entertainment offerings. Infrastructure costs include information systems expense, repairs and maintenance, property taxes, utilities and fuel, retail occupancy costs, insurance and transportation Selling, general and administrative costs Depreciation and amortization Significant capital investments: In recent years, over 70% of the Company s capital spend has been at our parks and experiences business, which is principally for theme park and resort expansion, new attractions, cruise ships, capital improvements and systems infrastructure. The various investment plans discussed in the Parks & Experiences section are based on management s current expectations. Actual investment may differ Many of our Parks, Experiences and Products businesses have been significantly impacted by COVID-19, including: Walt Disney World Resort closed from March 16, 2020 through July 10, 2020 Disneyland Resort closed March 14, 2020 and continues to be closed, except for the Downtown Disney district which reopened on July 9, 2020 Disneyland Paris closed from March 14, 2020 through July 14, 2020 and closed again on October 30, 2020 Hong Kong Disneyland Resort closed from January 26, 2020 through June 17, 2020 and July 15, 2020 through September 24, 2020 Shanghai Disney Resort closed from January 25, 2020 through May 10, 2020 Theme parks and resorts, which include: Walt Disney World Resort in Florida Disneyland Resort in California Disneyland Paris Hong Kong Disneyland Resort (48% ownership interest) and Shanghai Disney Resort (43% ownership interest), all of which are consolidated in our results. Additionally, the Company licenses our intellectual property to a third party to operate Tokyo Disney Resort. Disney Cruise Line, Disney Vacation Club, National Geographic Expeditions (73% ownership interest), Adventures by Disney and Aulani, a Disney Resort & Spa in Hawaii Licensing of our trade names, characters, visual, literary and other intellectual properties to various manufacturers, game developers, publishers and retailers throughout the world, for use on merchandise, published materials and games Sale of branded merchandise through retail, online and wholesale businesses, and development and publishing of books, comic books and magazines (except National Geographic, which is reported in Media Networks) Merchandise licensing - Royalties from intellectual property licensing Retail - Sales of merchandise at The Disney Stores and through branded internet shopping sites, as well as to wholesalers (including books, comic books and magazines) 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 14 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 15 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Parks & Experiences Walt Disney World Resort acres of land. The resort includes theme parks (the Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Disney s Hollywood Studios and Disney s Animal Kingdom) hotels vacation club properties a retail, dining and entertainment complex (Disney Springs) a sports complex conference centers campgrounds golf courses water parks and other recreational facilities designed to attract visitors for an extended stay. activities. A number of attractions and restaurants in each of the theme parks are sponsored or operated by other corporations under multi-year agreements. Square, Main Street USA and Tomorrowland. Each land provides a unique guest experience featuring themed attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. historical developments and addresses the challenges facing the world today through pavilions devoted to showcasing science and technology innovations, communication, transportation, use of imagination, nature and food production, the ocean environment and space. World Showcase presents a community of nations focusing on the culture, traditions and accomplishments of people around the world. Countries represented with pavilions include Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Morocco, Norway, the United Kingdom and the U.S. Both areas feature themed attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. Epcot is undergoing a multi-year transformation, which will include the addition of new attractions and experiences. Commissary Lane, Echo Lake, Grand Avenue, Hollywood Boulevard, Star Wars: Galaxy s Edge, Sunset Boulevard and Toy Story Land. The areas provide behind-the-scenes glimpses of Hollywood-style action through various shows and attractions and offer themed food service, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. five themed areas: Africa, Asia, DinoLand USA, Discovery Island and Pandora - The World of Avatar. Each themed area contains attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. The park features more than 300 species of live mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians and 3,000 varieties of vegetation. 18 resort hotels and vacation club facilities at the Walt Disney World Resort, with approximately 24,000 rooms and 3,500 vacation club units. Resort facilities include 500,000 square feet of conference meeting space and Disney s Fort Wilderness camping and recreational area, which offers approximately 800 campsites. The Company is constructing a new Star Wars: Galactic Starcruiser hotel at the Walt Disney World Resort. Marketplace, The Landing, Town Center and West Side. The areas are home to more than 150 venues including the 64,000-square- foot World of Disney retail store and NBA Experience. Most of the Disney Springs facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent to the Company. and tournament events and interactive sports activities. The complex, which welcomes both amateur and professional athletes, accommodates multiple sporting events, including baseball, basketball, football, soccer, softball, tennis and track and field. It also includes a stadium, as well as two venues designed for cheerleading, dance competitions and other indoor sports. In 2020, the complex hosted the remainder of the previously suspended NBA season, including the playoffs and finals. courses, miniature golf courses, full-service spas, tennis, sailing, swimming, horseback riding and a number of other sports and leisure time activities. The resort also includes two water parks: Disney s Blizzard Beach and Disney s Typhoon Lagoon. Tokyo Disney Resort closed from February 29, 2020 through June 30, 2020 Disney Cruise Line sailings have been suspended since March 14, 2020 Many of our retail stores were closed for most of the second half of our fiscal year although most have since reopened The Walt Disney World Resort is located approximately 20 miles southwest of Orlando, Florida, on approximately 25,000 The Walt Disney World Resort is marketed through a variety of international, national and local advertising and promotional Magic Kingdom The Magic Kingdom consists of six themed areas: Adventureland, Fantasyland, Frontierland, Liberty Epcot Epcot consists of two major themed areas: Future World and World Showcase. Future World dramatizes certain Disney s Hollywood Studios Disney s Hollywood Studios consists of eight themed areas: Animation Courtyard, Disney s Animal Kingdom Disney s Animal Kingdom consists of a 145-foot tall Tree of Life centerpiece surrounded by Disney Springs is an approximately 120-acre retail, dining and entertainment complex and consists of four areas: Nine independently-operated hotels with approximately 6,000 rooms are situated on property leased from the Company. ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex is a 230-acre center that hosts professional caliber training and competitions, festival Other recreational amenities and activities available at the Walt Disney World Resort include three championship golf Hotels, Vacation Club Properties and Other Resort Facilities As of October 3, 2020, the Company owned and operated 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 16 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Disneyland Resort California. The Disneyland Resort includes two theme parks (Disneyland and Disney California Adventure), three resort hotels and a retail, dining and entertainment complex (Downtown Disney). activities. A number of the attractions and restaurants in the theme parks are sponsored or operated by other corporations under multi-year agreements. Street USA, Mickey s Toontown, New Orleans Square, Star Wars: Galaxy s Edge, and Tomorrowland. These areas feature themed attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. Buena Vista Street, Cars Land, Grizzly Peak, Hollywood Land, Pacific Wharf, Paradise Gardens Park and Pixar Pier. These areas include themed attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. The Company is constructing a new themed area, Avengers Campus. hotels and vacation club facilities with approximately 2,400 rooms, 50 vacation club units and 180,000 square feet of conference meeting space. adjacent to both Disneyland and Disney California Adventure. Most of the Downtown Disney facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent to the Company. Aulani, a Disney Resort & Spa featuring approximately 350 hotel rooms, an 18,000-square-foot spa and 12,000 square feet of conference meeting space. The resort also has approximately 480 vacation club units. Disneyland Paris The land is being developed pursuant to a master agreement with French governmental authorities. Disneyland Paris includes two theme parks (Disneyland Park and Walt Disney Studios Park) seven themed resort hotels two convention centers a shopping, dining and entertainment complex (Disney Village) and a 27-hole golf facility. Of the 5,510 acres comprising the site, approximately half have been developed to date, including a planned community (Val d Europe) and an eco-tourism destination (Villages Nature). and Main Street USA. These areas include themed attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. and Toon Studio. These areas each include themed attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. The Company has announced plans for a multi-year expansion of Walt Disney Studios Park that will add new themed areas based on Marvel and Frozen. square feet of conference meeting space. In addition, eight on-site hotels that are owned and operated by third parties provide approximately 2,575 rooms. hotels. A number of the Disney Village facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent to the Company. includes a regional train station, hotels and a town center consisting of a shopping center as well as office, commercial and residential space. Third parties operate these developments on land leased or purchased from the Company. The resort is a 50% joint venture between the Company and Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs, who manages the venture. The Company owns 486 acres and has rights under a long-term lease for use of an additional 55 acres of land in Anaheim, The Disneyland Resort is marketed through a variety of international, national and local advertising and promotional Disneyland Disneyland consists of nine themed areas: Adventureland, Critter Country, Fantasyland, Frontierland, Main Disney California Adventure Disney California Adventure is adjacent to Disneyland and includes seven themed areas: Hotels, Vacation Club Units and Other Resort Facilities Disneyland Resort includes three Company owned and operated Downtown Disney is a themed 15-acre retail, entertainment and dining complex with approximately 30 venues located Aulani, a Disney Resort & Spa, is a Company-operated family resort on a 21-acre oceanfront property on Oahu, Hawaii Disneyland Paris is located on a 5,510-acre development in Marne-la-Vall e, approximately 20 miles east of Paris, France. Disneyland Park Disneyland Park consists of five themed areas: Adventureland, Discoveryland, Fantasyland, Frontierland Walt Disney Studios Park Walt Disney Studios Park includes four themed areas: Backlot, Front Lot, Production Courtyard Hotels and Other Facilities Disneyland Paris operates seven resort hotels, with approximately 5,800 rooms and 210,000 Disney Village is a 500,000-square-foot retail, dining and entertainment complex located between the theme parks and the Val d Europe is a planned community near Disneyland Paris that is being developed in phases. Val d Europe currently Villages Nature is a European eco-tourism resort that consists of recreational facilities, restaurants and 900 vacation units. 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 17 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Hong Kong Disneyland Resort Administrative Region (HKSAR) owns a 52% interest. The resort is located on 310 acres on Lantau Island and is in close proximity to the Hong Kong International Airport and the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau Bridge. Hong Kong Disneyland Resort includes one theme park and three themed resort hotels. A separate Hong Kong subsidiary of the Company is responsible for managing Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. The Company is entitled to receive royalties and management fees based on the operating performance of Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. Gulch, Main Street USA, Mystic Point, Tomorrowland and Toy Story Land. These areas feature themed attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. The park is in the midst of a multi-year expansion project that will add a number of new guest offerings, including a transformed castle and a Frozen-themed area. square feet of conference meeting space. Shanghai Disney Resort interest. The resort is located in the Pudong district of Shanghai on approximately 1,000 acres of land, which includes the Shanghai Disneyland theme park two themed resort hotels a retail, dining and entertainment complex (Disneytown) and an outdoor recreation area. A management company, in which the Company has a 70% interest and Shendi has a 30% interest, is responsible for operating the resort and receives a management fee based on the operating performance of Shanghai Disney Resort. The Company is also entitled to royalties based on the resort s revenues. Imagination, Mickey Avenue, Tomorrowland, Toy Story Land and Treasure Cove. These areas feature themed attractions, restaurants, merchandise shops and entertainment experiences. The Company is constructing an eighth themed area based on the animated film Zootopia. Disneytown is an 11-acre outdoor complex of dining, shopping and entertainment venues located adjacent to Shanghai Disneyland. Most Disneytown facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent to Shanghai Disney Resort. Tokyo Disney Resort on revenues generated by the Tokyo Disney Resort, which is owned and operated by Oriental Land Co., Ltd. (OLC), a third-party Japanese corporation. The resort includes two theme parks (Tokyo Disneyland and Tokyo DisneySea) four Disney-branded hotels six other hotels (operated by third parties other than OLC) a retail, dining and entertainment complex (Ikspiari) and Bon Voyage, a Disney-themed merchandise location. Tomorrowland, Toontown, Westernland and World Bazaar. Lost River Delta, Mediterranean Harbor, Mermaid Lagoon, Mysterious Island and Port Discovery. OLC is expanding Tokyo DisneySea to include an eighth themed port, Fantasy Springs. 2,400 rooms and a monorail, which links the theme parks and resort hotels with Ikspiari. OLC is currently constructing a 475-room Disney-branded hotel at Tokyo DisneySea, and a 600-room Toy Story themed hotel opening in 2021. Disney Vacation Club (DVC) Vero Beach, Florida and Hilton Head Island, South Carolina. Available units are offered for sale under a vacation ownership plan and are operated as hotel rooms when not occupied by vacation club members. The Company s vacation club units range from deluxe studios to three-bedroom grand villas. Unit counts in this document are presented in terms of two-bedroom equivalents. DVC had approximately 4,300 vacation club units as of October 3, 2020. The Company also plans to build a new DVC property at Disneyland Resort with 135 units. Disney Cruise Line Magic and the Disney Wonder are approximately 85,000-ton 875-stateroom ships, and the Disney Dream and the Disney The Company owns a 48% interest in Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Hong Kong Disneyland Hong Kong Disneyland consists of seven themed areas: Adventureland, Fantasyland, Grizzly Hotels Hong Kong Disneyland Resort includes three themed hotels with a total of 1,750 rooms and approximately 16,000 The Company owns a 43% interest in Shanghai Disney Resort and Shanghai Shendi (Group) Co., Ltd (Shendi) owns a 57% Shanghai Disneyland Shanghai Disneyland consists of seven themed areas: Adventure Isle, Fantasyland, Gardens of Hotels and Other Facilities Shanghai Disneyland Resort includes two themed hotels with a total of 1,220 rooms. Tokyo Disney Resort is located on 494 acres of land, six miles east of downtown Tokyo, Japan. The Company earns royalties Tokyo Disneyland Tokyo Disneyland consists of seven themed areas: Adventureland, Critter Country, Fantasyland, Tokyo DisneySea Tokyo DisneySea is divided into seven ports of call, including American Waterfront, Arabian Coast, Hotels and Other Resort Facilities Tokyo Disney Resort includes four Disney-branded hotels with a total of more than DVC offers ownership interests in 15 resort facilities located at the Walt Disney World Resort Disneyland Resort Aulani Disney Cruise Line is a four-ship vacation cruise line, which operates out of ports in North America and Europe. The Disney 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 18 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 19 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Fantasy are approximately 130,000-ton 1,250-stateroom ships. The ships cater to families, children, teenagers and adults, with distinctly-themed areas and activities for each group. Many cruise vacations include a visit to Disney s Castaway Cay, a 1,000-acre private Bahamian island. launch in summer 2022 with the other two ships to be delivered from the shipyard in 2024 and 2025. These dates include impacts from shipyard delays due to COVID-19. Each new ship can be powered by liquefied natural gas and will be approximately 140,000 tons with 1,250 staterooms. Point on the island of Eleuthera. Adventures by Disney Disney offered approximately 20 different tour packages during 2020. National Geographic Expeditions National Geographic offered approximately 190 different tour packages during 2020. Walt Disney Imagineering engineering support, production support, project management and research and development for the Company s Parks, Experiences and Products operations. Consumer Products are: toys, apparel, games, home d cor and furnishings, accessories, health and beauty, books, food, stationery, footwear, consumer electronics and magazines. The Company licenses characters from its film, television and other properties for use on third-party products in these categories and earns royalties, which are usually based on a fixed percentage of the wholesale or retail selling price of the products. Some of the major properties licensed by the Company include: Mickey and Minnie, Frozen, Star Wars, Disney Princess, Avengers, Spider-Man, Toy Story, Disney Channel characters, Winnie the Pooh, Cars and Disney Classics. Retail stores operate under The Disney Store name and are generally located in leading shopping malls and other retail complexes. The Company owns and operates approximately 200 stores in North America, 60 stores in Europe, 45 stores in Japan and two stores in China. Internet sites are generally branded shopDisney. Company s branded franchises. The products include children s books, comic books, digital comics and ebooks, learning products and storytelling apps. Competition and Seasonality of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities. The profitability of the leisure-time industry may be influenced by various factors that are not directly controllable, such as economic conditions including business cycle and exchange rate fluctuations, the political environment, travel industry trends, amount of available leisure time, oil and transportation prices, weather patterns and natural disasters. The licensing and retail business compete with other licensors, retailers and publishers of character, brand and celebrity names, as well as other licensors, publishers and developers of game software, online video content, internet websites, other types of home entertainment and retailers of toys and kids merchandise. attendance and resort occupancy fluctuate based on the seasonal nature of vacation travel and leisure activities, the opening of new guest offerings and pricing and promotional offers. Peak attendance and resort occupancy generally occur during the summer months when school vacations occur and during early winter and spring holiday periods. The licensing, retail and wholesale businesses are influenced by seasonal consumer purchasing behavior, which generally results in higher revenues The Company is expanding its cruise business by adding three new ships. The first ship, the Disney Wish, is scheduled to The Company has an agreement with the Government of The Bahamas to create and manage a destination at Lighthouse Adventures by Disney offers guided tour packages predominantly at non-Disney sites around the world. Adventures by National Geographic Expeditions offers guided tour packages around the world that explore cultures, landscapes and history. Walt Disney Imagineering provides master planning, real estate development, attraction, entertainment and show design, The Company s merchandise licensing operations cover a diverse range of product categories, the most significant of which The Company sells Disney-, Marvel-, Pixar- and Lucasfilm-branded products through retail stores and internet sites globally. The Company creates, distributes and publishes a variety of products in multiple countries and languages based on the The Company s theme parks and resorts as well as Disney Cruise Line and Disney Vacation Club compete with other forms All of the theme parks and the associated resort facilities are operated on a year-round basis. Typically, theme park 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 20 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 21 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS during the Company s first and fourth fiscal quarter, and by the timing and performance of theatrical and game releases and cable programming broadcasts. STUDIO ENTERTAINMENT Entertainment (Sony). With the exception of a co-production relationship for the upcoming Spider-Man 3 (2021) film, Sony incurs the costs to produce and distribute Spider-Man films. For Spider-Man 3 (2021), the Company and Sony share in the cost to produce the film and proportionately share in revenues, adjusted for distribution fees retained by Sony. Sony distributes all the Spider-man films and the Company licenses the merchandise rights to third parties. The Company pays Sony a licensing fee based on each film s box office receipts, subject to specified limits. The Company distributes all other Marvel-produced films with the exception of The Incredible Hulk, which is distributed by Universal Pictures. Theatrical Market distribute and market our filmed products directly. In most major international markets, we distribute our filmed products directly while in other markets our films are distributed by independent companies or joint ventures. During fiscal 2021, we expect to release approximately 15 to 20 of our own produced feature films, although the timing and number of feature films could be impacted by COVID-19. As a result of COVID-19, our distribution strategy may change and certain films intended for theatrical release may be licensed to DTCI for use on Disney in certain territories. Some of these films will be released theatrically in certain territories and released on Disney where not available theatrically. Cumulatively through October 3, 2020, the Company has released approximately 1,100 full-length live-action features and 100 full-length animated features. effort to generate public awareness of the film, to increase the public s intent to view the film and to help generate consumer interest in the subsequent home entertainment and other ancillary markets. These costs are expensed as incurred, which may result in a loss on a film in the theatrical markets, including in periods prior to the theatrical release of the film. Home Entertainment Market international markets, we distribute home entertainment releases under our motion picture banners both directly and through independent distribution companies. each market. Home entertainment releases are distributed in physical (DVD and Blu-ray) and electronic formats. Electronic Significant operations: Motion picture production and distribution under the Walt Disney Pictures, Twentieth Century Studios (previously Twentieth Century Fox), Marvel, Lucasfilm, Pixar, Searchlight Pictures (previously Fox Searchlight Pictures) and Blue Sky Studios banners Development, production and licensing of live entertainment events on Broadway and around the world (stage plays) Music production and distribution Post-production services through Industrial Light & Magic and Skywalker Sound Significant revenues: Theatrical distribution - Rentals from licensing our motion pictures to theaters Home entertainment - Sale of our motion pictures to retailers and distributors in physical (DVD and Blu-ray) and electronic formats TV SVOD distribution and other - Licensing fees and other revenue from the right to use our motion picture productions, revenue from content transactions with other Company segments, ticket sales from stage plays, fees from licensing our intellectual properties for use in live entertainment productions, revenue from licensing our music and revenue from post- production services Significant expenses: Operating expenses consisting primarily of amortization of production, participations and residuals costs, distribution costs and costs of sales Selling, general and administrative costs Depreciation and amortization Prior to the Company s acquisition of Marvel in fiscal 2010, Marvel had licensed Spider-Man rights to Sony Pictures We produce and distribute full-length live-action films and animated films. In the domestic theatrical market, we generally The Company incurs significant marketing and advertising costs before and throughout the theatrical release of a film in an In the domestic market, we distribute home entertainment releases directly under each of our motion picture banners. In Domestic and international home entertainment distribution typically starts three to six months after the theatrical release in 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 22 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 23 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS formats may be released up to four weeks ahead of the physical release. Physical formats are generally sold to retailers, such as Walmart and Target, and electronic formats are sold through e-tailers, such as Apple and Amazon. titles and 300 animated titles, in the domestic home entertainment marketplace and approximately 2,400 active produced and acquired titles, including 2,000 live-action titles and 400 animated titles, in the international marketplace. consumers for a specified rental period. Television Market providers, which may provide the content to viewers on television or a variety of internet-connected devices. The television market is comprised of multiple pay TV and free TV windows, which can have license periods of various lengths following the home entertainment window. Our Walt Disney Pictures, Marvel, Lucasfilm and Pixar branded films are generally licensed to DTCI for use on Disney after the theatrical and home entertainment windows. In response to the impact COVID-19 is having on theatrical distribution, certain films originally intended for theatrical release were licensed to DTCI for use on Disney in certain territories. Disney Music Group develops, produces, markets and distributes the Company s music worldwide either directly or through license agreements. DMG also licenses the songs and recording copyrights to third parties for printed music, records, audio-visual devices, public performances and digital distribution and produces live musical concerts. DMG includes Walt Disney Records, Hollywood Records, Disney Music Publishing and Disney Concerts. Disney Theatrical Group including The Lion King, Aladdin, Frozen, The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, The Hunchback of Notre Dame, Mary Poppins (a co-production with Cameron Mackintosh Ltd), Newsies, Aida and TARZAN . Ice and Marvel Universe Live!. Competition and Seasonality and or distribute theatrical and television films, exploit products in the home entertainment market, provide pay television and SVOD services, and produce music and live theater. We also compete to obtain creative and performing talent, story properties and advertiser support that are essential to the success of our Studio Entertainment businesses. Entertainment operating results fluctuate due to the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Release dates are determined by several factors, including competition and the timing of vacation and holiday periods. DIRECT-TO-CONSUMER & INTERNATIONAL As of October 3, 2020, we have approximately 2,500 active produced and acquired film titles, including 2,200 live-action Concurrently with physical home entertainment distribution, we license titles to VOD services for electronic delivery to In the television market, we license our films to cable and broadcast networks, television stations and other video service The Disney Music Group (DMG) commissions new music for the Company s motion pictures and television programs and Disney Theatrical Group develops, produces and licenses live entertainment events on Broadway and around the world, Disney Theatrical Group also licenses the Company s intellectual property to Feld Entertainment, the producer of Disney On The Studio Entertainment businesses compete with all forms of entertainment. A significant number of companies produce The success of Studio Entertainment operations is heavily dependent upon public taste and preferences. In addition, Studio Significant operations: Direct-to-consumer (DTC) streaming services, which include Disney Disney Hotstar, ESPN and Hulu Branded international television networks and channels, which include Disney, ESPN, Fox, National Geographic and Star (International Channels) Other digital content distribution platforms and services Equity investments: A 50% ownership interest in Endemol Shine Group, which was sold on July 2, 2020 A 20% ownership interest (49% economic interest) in Seven TV A 30% effective ownership interest in Tata Sky Limited 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 24 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Direct-to-Consumer Services (DTC) programming (services are offered individually or in a bundle). The services are offered to customers directly or through third- party distributors on mobile and connected devices. Customers are generally billed a monthly or annual subscription fee. Disney Disney Hotstar Geographic branded programming. It offers approximately 11,700 episodes and 700 movies from the Company s library of television and film programming and over 30 exclusive original series and over 15 exclusive original movies and specials produced by the Company s film and television studios. Disney launched in November 2019 in the U.S. and four other countries and has expanded to select Western European countries in the Spring of 2020. In April, our Hotstar service in India was converted to Disney Hotstar, and in June 2020, subscribers of the Disney Deluxe service in Japan were converted to Disney . In September 2020, Disney was launched in additional European countries and Disney Hotstar was launched in Indonesia. In November 2020, Disney was launched in Latin America. Additional launches are planned for various Asia-Pacific territories in calendar 2021. sports, news and original series in approximately ten languages and incorporates gaming and social features. Disney Hotstar has exclusive streaming rights to Home Box Office, Inc. s original programming in India and also carries content from Disney, Fox and Showtime Networks. advertising revenue from commercial announcements in select programming. 2020 was approximately 74 million. content and original programming not available on ESPN s other networks. ESPN revenue is derived from subscription fees, pay- per-view fees and, to a lesser extent, advertising sales. Live events available through the service include mixed martial arts, soccer, hockey, boxing, baseball, college sports, tennis and cricket. ESPN is currently the exclusive distributor for UFC pay-per-view events in the U.S. Based on internal management reports, the estimated number of paid ESPN subscribers as of October 3, 2020 was approximately 10 million. majority of Hulu s revenue is derived from subscription fees and advertising sales. Hulu offers four primary subscription services bundles, including an SVOD service with either limited commercial announcements or no commercial announcements, Significant revenues: Subscription fees - Fees charged to customers subscribers for our video streaming services Advertising - Sales of advertising time space on our International Channels and sales of non-ratings based advertising time space on digital media platforms ( addressable ad sales ) across the Company. In general, addressable ad sales are delivered using technology that allows for dynamic insertion of advertisements into video content, which can be targeted to specific viewer groups Affiliate fees - Fees charged to MVPDs for the right to deliver our International Channels to their customers TV SVOD distribution - Program sales, sub-licensing fees for sports programming rights and fees charged to customers to view our sports programming ( pay-per-view ) (e.g. Ultimate Fighting Championship) and Premier Access content (e.g. Mulan on Disney ) Significant expenses: Operating expenses consisting primarily of programming and production costs (including amortization of content obtained from other Company segments), technical support costs, operating labor and distribution costs Selling, general and administrative costs Depreciation and amortization Our DTC businesses consist of subscription services that provide video streaming of general entertainment, family and sports Disney is a subscription based DTC video streaming service with Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars and National Disney Hotstar is a subscription based DTC video streaming service with local and international television shows, movies, The majority of Disney Disney Hotstar revenue is derived from subscription fees. Disney Hotstar also generates Based on internal management reports, the estimated number of paid Disney Disney Hotstar subscribers as of October 3, ESPN is a subscription based DTC video streaming service offering thousands of live sporting events, on-demand sports Hulu is a subscription based DTC video streaming service with acquired and original television and film content. The An approximate 24% effective ownership interest (14% fully diluted) in Vice Group Holding Inc. (Vice). Vice operates Viceland, which is owned 50% by Vice and 50% by A E. 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 25 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 26 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS and a digital OTT MVPD service that also includes the SVOD service with either limited commercial announcements or no commercial announcements. The digital OTT MVPD service includes live linear streams of cable networks and the major broadcast networks. In addition, Hulu offers subscriptions to premium services such as HBOMax, Cinemax, Starz and Showtime, which can be added to the Hulu service. Based on internal management reports, the estimated number of paid Hulu subscribers as of October 3, 2020 was approximately 37 million. The Company also has a put call agreement with NBCU, which provides NBCU the option to require the Company to purchase NBCU s interest in Hulu and the Company the option to require NBCU to sell its interest in Hulu to the Company, in both cases, beginning in January 2024 (see Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). calendar year 2021. International Channels International Channels derive the majority of their revenues from advertising sales and affiliate fees. Generally, channels provide programming under multi-year agreements with MVPDs that include contractually determined rates on a per subscriber basis. The amounts that we can charge to MVPDs for our channels are largely dependent on the quality and quantity of programming that we can provide and the competitive market for programming services. The ability to sell advertising time and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that a channel can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand. International Channels business as we shift the primary means of monetizing our film and television content from licensing of linear channels to use on our DTC services. reports as of September 2020 are as follows: approximately 30 languages and 170 countries territories. Branded channels include Disney Channel, Disney Junior, Disney XD and Disney International HD. Disney content is also available on third-party VOD services and online on our apps and websites. Programming for these channels includes Disney branded programming acquired from our domestic studios, programming acquired from third parties and internally developed local programming. Australia), which are broadcast in three languages (English, Spanish and Portuguese) and approximately 60 countries territories. ESPN holds non-U.S. rights for various professional sports programming including English Premier League, La Liga, multiple UEFA leagues, various other soccer rights, various tennis rights and the NFL. National Geographic 317 Disney Channel 196 Disney Junior 166 Disney XD 105 General Entertainment 134 The Company has a 67% ownership interest in Hulu and full operational control, with NBCU owning the remaining 33%. The Company plans to launch a DTC general entertainment video streaming offering under the Star brand outside the U.S. in Our International Channels produce local programs or acquire rights from our domestic studios and from third parties. Our The Company s increased focus on DTC distribution in international markets is expected to negatively impact the The Company s significant International Channels and the number of subscribers (in millions) based on internal management DTCI operates approximately 100 Disney branded television channels outside of the U.S., which are broadcast in DTCI operates approximately 25 ESPN branded television channels outside of the U.S. (primarily in Latin America and Reflects each unique subscriber that has access to one or more of these branded channels. Estimated Subscribers 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 27 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS approximately 40 languages and 190 countries territories. Branded channels include Fox Channel, Fox Movies, Fox Life, Fox Crime, Fox Traveler, FX and Fox Sports. Content is also available on third-party VOD services and online on our apps and websites. Programming for these channels includes internally developed local programming and programming acquired from our domestic studios and from third parties. soccer events, motorsports programming, combat sports and U.S. sports leagues (such as NFL and MLB). Fox Sports Premium, a pay television service in Argentina, airs the matches of the professional soccer league in Argentina. In addition, Fox Sports distributes programming in Asia Pacific with regional feeds offered for Taiwan, Singapore, Philippines and South East Asia markets. The service features Bundesliga, motorsports, combat sports and international tennis programming. operations in Mexico. holds the media and sponsorship rights of the Dutch Premier League for soccer. National Geographic broadcast in approximately 40 languages and 180 countries territories. Branded channels include National Geographic Channel, Nat Geo People, Nat Geo Wild and Nat Geo Kids. These channels air scripted and documentary programming on such topics as natural history, adventure, science, exploration and culture. Content is also available on third-party VOD services and online on our apps and websites. Programming for these channels includes programming acquired from our domestic studios, internally developed local programming and programming acquired from third parties. Asia, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, the Middle East and parts of Africa. Programming for these channels includes internally developed local programming and acquired programming, as well as content from Star s extensive library of film and television programs. Star holds rights for various sports programming including cricket (for which Star has the global distribution rights to certain events) soccer, tennis and field hockey. Other India Channels movies as well as Hollywood, Asian and Indian regional movies dubbed in Hindi. Bindass is a youth entertainment channel. Hungama is targeted to kids and features a mix of animated series and movies. countries territories in which we operate channels. The current year includes language feeds that were previously excluded but includes only one channel (rather than two) in markets where we have both high definition and standard definition feeds. In addition, the current year includes certain Fox and National Geographic channels in Africa and Eastern Europe that were previously excluded. On a comparable basis, the number of branded channels declined by approximately 30 primarily due to shutting down Disney and Fox channels. Other Digital Content Distribution Platforms and Services technology support services. Branded Apps and Websites on these apps and websites, which are programmed with content licensed from the Media Networks. Disney Movie Club Disney Digital Network (DDN) The DTCI segment operates approximately 190 Fox branded channels outside of the U.S., which are broadcast in Fox Sports distributes Spanish-language sports programming services in Latin America that feature local and international In order to obtain regulatory approval for the acquisition of TFCF, the Company agreed to sell TFCF s sports media The Company has a 51% direct ownership interest in Eredivisie Media & Marketing CV (EMM), a media company that The DTCI segment operates approximately 90 National Geographic branded channels outside of the U.S., which are Star develops, produces and broadcasts approximately 60 channels, in approximately 10 languages in India and throughout DTCI operates UTV, Bindass and Hungama branded channels in India. UTV Action and UTV Movies offer Bollywood At October 3, 2020, we adjusted the methodology used to determine the number of branded channels and the number of DTCI operates branded apps and websites, the Disney Movie Club and Disney Digital Network and provides streaming DTCI operates apps and websites under the ESPN, ABC, Disney, Freeform, FX and Nat Geo brands. DTCI sells advertising The Disney Movie Club sells DVD Blu-ray discs directly to consumers in the U.S. and Canada. DDN develops online video content, primarily for distribution on YouTube, and provides online marketing services. 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 28 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 29 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Streaming Technology Services Company, 15% by MLB and 10% by the National Hockey League (NHL), both of which have the right to sell their shares to the Company in the future (see Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). programming. Hearst has a 20% interest in the Company s DTC sports business. Equity Investments Endemol Shine Group 2020, the Company sold its 50% interest in Endemol Shine Group. interest and a 49% economic interest in the business. platform in India. targets millennial audiences. Vice operates Viceland, which is owned 50% by A E and 50% by Vice. Competition and Seasonality networks, television stations and other media, such as DTC services and video games. With respect to the sale of advertising time, we compete with other television networks, television stations, MVPDs and other advertising media such as digital content, newspapers, magazines and billboards. contractual agreements with MVPDs are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable, satellite and telecommunication distribution industry and other factors may adversely affect the Company s ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for distribution that are as favorable as those currently in place. SVOD providers and DTC services for the acquisition of sports rights, talent, show concepts and scripted and other programming. channels and digital platforms, changes in subscriber levels and the demand for sports and other content. INTERCOMPANY ELIMINATIONS from intersegment transactions, and the required eliminations are reported on a separate Eliminations line when presenting a summary of our segment results). will be used on our DTC services, there are four broad categories of content: BAMTech LLC (BAMTech) provides streaming technology services to third parties. BAMTech is owned 75% by the BAMTech also operates the Company s DTC sports business, which includes ESPN as well as DTC services for NHL The significant equity investments reported in the Direct-to-Consumer & International segment are as follows: Endemol Shine Group produces both scripted and non-scripted content for distribution across multiple platforms. On July 2, Seven TV operates an advertising-supported, free-to-air Disney Channel in Russia. The Company has a 20% ownership The Company has a 30% effective interest in Tata Sky Limited, which operates a direct-to-home satellite distribution The Company has an approximate 24% effective ownership (14% fully diluted) in Vice, which is a media company that The Company s DTC and International Channel businesses compete for viewers primarily with other television and cable The Company s International Channels face competition from other networks for carriage by MVPDs. The Company s The Company s DTC and International Channels businesses also compete with other media and entertainment companies, Internet websites and digital products operated by the segment compete with other websites and entertainment products. Revenues fluctuate based on the timing of releases and performance of our digital media content, viewership levels on our Intersegment content transactions are presented gross (i.e. the segment producing the content reports revenue and profit As it relates to film and television content that is produced by our Media Networks and Studio Entertainment segments that Content produced for exclusive DTC use, Originals New Studio Entertainment theatrical releases following the theatrical and home entertainment windows, Studio Pay 1 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 30 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS generally cost plus a margin for Originals and Media Pay 1 content and generally based on comparable transactions for Studio Pay 1 and Library content. Imputed title by title intersegment license fees that may be necessary for other purposes are established as required by those purposes. for which revenue is recognized ratably over the license period. basis and for Media Pay 1 and Library content on a straight line basis. Networks, the difference results in an operating income impact in the elimination segment, which nets to zero over the DTC amortization period. Generally, timing of revenue recognition is similar to the reporting of third-party sales transactions, except that intersegment sales of library content are generally recognized over time. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION intellectual property, including trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and trade secrets. Important intellectual property includes rights in the content of motion pictures, television programs, electronic games, sound recordings, character likenesses, theme park attractions, books and magazines, and merchandise. Risks related to the protection and exploitation of intellectual property rights are set forth in Item 1A Risk Factors. AVAILABLE INFORMATION reports are available without charge on our website, www.disney.com investors, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We are providing the address to our internet site solely for the information of investors. We do not intend the address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the contents of the website into this report. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the SEC, the most significant factors affecting our business include the following: BUSINESS, ECONOMIC, MARKET and OPERATING CONDITION RISKS The adverse impact of COVID-19 on our businesses will continue for an unknown length of time and may continue to impact certain of our key sources of revenue. parks were closed or operating at significantly reduced capacity for a significant portion of the year, cruise ship sailings, guided tours and stage play performances were suspended since late in the second quarter, and retail stores were closed for a significant portion of the year. In addition, we have delayed or, in some instances shortened or cancelled, theatrical releases and have experienced adverse impacts on advertising sales and on our merchandise licensing business. Many of our businesses have been closed or suspended consistent with government mandates or guidance. We have experienced disruptions in the production and availability of content, including the deferral or cancellation of certain sports events and suspension of production of most film and television content. We have continued to pay for certain sports rights, including for certain events that have been deferred or canceled. The impacts to our content have resulted in decreased viewership and advertising revenues, and demands for affiliate fee reductions related to certain of our television networks. These impacts are likely to be exacerbated the longer such content is not available, including if sports content should become unavailable again in the future. Other of our offerings will be exposed to additional financial impacts in the event of future significant unavailability of content. COVID-19 impacts could also hasten the erosion of our historical sources of revenue at our Media Networks businesses. We have significantly reduced numbers of reservations at our hotels and cruises. We have granted rent waivers to some of our tenants, and they have not paid rent while certain of our facilities have been closed. We have experienced increased returns and refunds and customer requests New Media Networks episodic television series following their initial airing on our linear networks, Media Pay 1 and Content in all other windows, Library . The intersegment transfer price, for purposes of segment financial reporting pursuant to ASC 280 Segment Reporting, is Intersegment revenue is recognized upon availability of the content to the DTC service except with respect to Library content Our DTC services generally amortize intersegment content costs for Originals and Studio Pay 1 content on an accelerated When the DTC amortization timing is different than the timing of revenue recognition at Studio Entertainment or Media The Company s businesses throughout the world are affected by its ability to exploit and protect against infringement of its Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those For an enterprise as large and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors could materially affect future developments The impact of COVID-19 and measures to prevent its spread are affecting our businesses in a number of ways. Our theme 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 31 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 32 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS for payment deferrals. Collectively, our impacted businesses have historically been the source of the majority of our revenue. Some of our businesses remain closed and those that are open are operating subject to restrictions and increased expenses. These and other impacts of COVID-19 on our businesses will continue for an unknown length of time. COVID-19 impacts that have subsided may again impact our businesses in the future and new impacts may emerge, particularly given the rise of COVID-19 cases following the end of fiscal 2020. For example, some of our parks have closed due to government mandates or guidance following their initial reopening. businesses, such as subscription to pay television packages (which have experienced accelerated decline during COVID-19) or theater-going to watch movies. Certain of our customers, including individuals as well as businesses such as theatrical distributors, affiliates, licensees of rights to use our programming and intellectual property, advertisers and others, have been negatively impacted by the economic downturn caused by COVID-19, which may result in decreased purchases of our goods and services even after certain operations resume. Some industries in which our customers operate, such as theatrical distribution, retail and travel, could experience contraction, which could impact the profitability of our businesses going forward. Additionally, we have and will continue to incur incremental costs to implement health and safety measures, reopen our parks and restart our halted construction projects. As we have resumed production of film and television content, including live sporting events, we have incurred costs to implement health and safety measures and productions will generally take longer to complete. The Company (or our Board of Directors, as applicable) significantly increased cash balances through the issuance of senior notes in March and May 2020, and we entered into an additional 5.0 billion credit facility in April 2020, did not declare a dividend with respect to fiscal year 2020 operations suspended certain capital projects reduced certain discretionary expenditures (such as spending on marketing) temporarily reduced management compensation temporarily eliminated Board of Director retainers and committee fees furloughed over half of our employees (some of whom remain furloughed and continue to receive Company provided medical benefits) and reduced our employee population. Such mitigation measures have resulted in the delay or suspension of certain projects in which we have invested, particularly at our parks and resorts and Studio Entertainment segment. We may take additional mitigation actions in the future such as raising additional financing not declaring future dividends reducing, or not making, certain payments, such as some contributions to our pension and postretirement medical plans further suspending capital spending reducing film and television content investments or implementing additional furloughs or reductions in force. These and other of our mitigating actions may have an adverse impact on our businesses. Additionally, there are certain limitations on our ability to mitigate the adverse financial impact of COVID-19, including the fixed costs of our theme park business and the impact COVID-19 may have on capital markets and our cost of borrowing. Further, the benefit of certain mitigation efforts will not continue to be available going forward. For example, as our employees return from furlough, the cost reductions of the related furloughs will no longer be available. mandated restrictions (such as density limitations and travel restrictions) measures we voluntarily implement measures we are contractually obligated to implement the distancing practices and health concerns of consumers, talent and production workers and logistical limitations. Upon reopening our parks and resorts business we have seen lower demand. Geographic variation in government requirements and ongoing changes to restrictions have disrupted and could further disrupt our businesses, including our production operations. Our operations could be suspended or re-suspended by government action or otherwise in the future. For example, after Hong Kong Disneyland Resort reopened in June 2020, it closed again in July 2020 and Disneyland Paris opened July 2020 and closed again in October 2020. Some of our businesses have not yet been permitted to open, such as Disneyland Resort and our cruise business. Some of our employees who returned to work have been refurloughed. Our operations could be negatively impacted by a significant COVID-19 outbreak impacting our employees, customers or others interacting with our businesses, including our supply chain. businesses and written down the value of certain of our retail store assets. Certain of our other assets could also become impaired, including further impairments of goodwill and intangible assets we have increased, and may further increase, allowances for credit losses and there may be changes in judgments in determining the fair-value of assets and estimates related to variable consideration may change due to increased returns, reduced usage of our products or services and decreased royalties. Our leverage ratios have increased and may remain elevated in the near-term as a result of COVID-19 s impact on our financial performance, causing certain of the credit rating agencies to downgrade our ratings. Our debt ratings may be further downgraded as a result of the COVID-19 impact, which may negatively impact our cost of borrowing. Due to reduced operating cash flow, we may utilize cash balances and or future financings to fund a portion of our operations and investments in our businesses. Financial risks may be exacerbated by the timing of customer deposit refunds liquidity issues among our key customers, particularly advertisers, television affiliates, theatrical exhibitors and distributors and licensees, which have impacted timely payments by such customers to the Company loss or delay of receivables as a result of contractual performance short falls and our contractual payment obligations. The Company has 13.1 billion in trade accounts receivable Consumers may change their behavior and consumption patterns in response to the prolonged suspension of certain of our Our mitigation efforts in response to the impacts of COVID-19 on our businesses have had, or may have, negative impacts. Even our operations that were not suspended or that have resumed continue to be adversely impacted by government In fiscal year 2020, we operated at a net loss. We have impaired goodwill and intangible assets at our International Channels 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 33 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 34 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS outstanding at October 3, 2020, with an allowance for credit losses of 0.5 billion. Our estimates and judgments with respect to the collectability of our receivables are subject to greater uncertainty due to the impacts of COVID-19. Economic or political conditions in a country outside the U.S. as a result of COVID-19 could also reduce our ability to hedge exposure to currency fluctuations in the country or our ability to repatriate revenue from the country. discussed herein. Our remediation efforts may not be successful. already adversely impacted our businesses and net cash flow, and we expect the ultimate magnitude of these disruptions on our financial and operational results will be dictated by the length of time that such disruptions continue which will, in turn, depend on the currently unknowable duration and severity of the impacts of COVID-19, and among other things, the impact and duration of governmental actions imposed in response to COVID-19 and individuals and companies risk tolerance regarding health matters going forward. If actual performance in our international markets significantly underperforms management s forecasts, the Company could have foreign currency hedge gains losses which are not offset by the realization of exposures, resulting in excess hedge gains or losses. While we cannot be certain as to the duration of the impacts of COVID-19, we expect impacts of COVID-19 to affect our financial results at least through fiscal 2021. Changes in U.S., global, and regional economic conditions are expected to have an adverse effect on the profitability of our businesses. demand for any of our businesses, thus reducing our revenue and earnings. Global economic activity has declined as a result of COVID-19. Past declines in economic conditions reduced spending at our parks and resorts, purchases of and prices for advertising on our broadcast and cable networks and owned stations, performance of our home entertainment releases, and purchases of Company-branded consumer products, and similar impacts can be expected should such conditions recur. The current decline in economic conditions could also reduce attendance at our parks and resorts, prices that MVPDs pay for our cable programming or subscription levels for our cable programming or direct-to-consumer products. Economic conditions can also impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. In addition, an increase in price levels generally, or in price levels in a particular sector such as the energy sector, could result in a shift in consumer demand away from the entertainment and consumer products we offer, which could also adversely affect our revenues and, at the same time, increase our costs. A decline in economic conditions could impact implementation of our expansion plans. Changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies may reduce international demand for our products or increase our labor or supply costs in non-U.S. markets, or reduce the U.S. dollar value of revenue we receive and expect to receive from other markets. Economic or political conditions in a country could also reduce our ability to hedge exposure to currency fluctuations in the country or our ability to repatriate revenue from the country. Changes in technology and in consumer consumption patterns may affect demand for our entertainment products, the revenue we can generate from these products or the cost of producing or distributing products. adapt to shifting patterns of content consumption through the adoption and exploitation of new technologies. New technologies affect the demand for our products, the manner in which our products are distributed to consumers, ways we charge for and receive revenue for our entertainment products and the stability of those revenue streams, the sources and nature of competing content offerings, the time and manner in which consumers acquire and view some of our entertainment products and the options available to advertisers for reaching their desired audiences. This trend has impacted the business model for certain traditional forms of distribution, as evidenced by the industry-wide decline in ratings for broadcast television, the reduction in demand for home entertainment sales of theatrical content, the development of alternative distribution channels for broadcast and cable programming and declines in subscriber levels for traditional cable channels, including for a number of our networks. COVID-19 has accelerated this trend. In order to respond to these developments, we regularly consider, and from time to time implement changes to our business models, most recently by developing, investing in and acquiring DTC products and reorganizing our media and entertainment businesses to accelerate our DTC strategies. There can be no assurance that our DTC offerings and other efforts will successfully respond to these changes. We expect to forgo revenue from traditional sources, particularly as we expand our DTC offerings. There can be no assurance that the DTC model and other business models we may develop will ultimately be as profitable as our existing or historic business models. Misalignment with public and consumer tastes and preferences for entertainment and consumer products could negatively impact demand for our entertainment offerings and products and adversely affect the profitability of any of our businesses. and preferences that change in often unpredictable ways. The success of our businesses depends on our ability to consistently create filmed entertainment and television programming, which may be distributed among other ways through The impacts of COVID-19 to our business have generally amplified, or reduced our ability to mitigate, the other risks COVID-19 also makes it more challenging for management to estimate future performance of our businesses. COVID-19 has A decline in economic activity in the U.S. and other regions of the world in which we do business can adversely affect The media entertainment and internet businesses in which we participate increasingly depend on our ability to successfully Our businesses create entertainment, travel and consumer products whose success depends substantially on consumer tastes 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 35 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 36 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS broadcast, cable, internet or cellular technology, theme park attractions, hotels and other resort facilities and travel experiences and consumer products that meet the changing preferences of the broad consumer market and respond to competition from an expanding array of choices facilitated by technological developments in the delivery of content. The success of our theme parks, resorts, cruise ships and experiences, as well as our theatrical releases, depends on demand for public or out-of-home entertainment experiences. COVID-19 may impact consumer tastes and preferences. Many of our businesses increasingly depend on acceptance of our offerings and products by consumers outside the U.S., and their success therefore depends on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences outside as well as inside the U.S. Moreover, we must often invest substantial amounts in film production, television programming, other content production and acquisition, acquisition of sports rights, theme park attractions, cruise ships or hotels and other resort facilities before we know the extent to which these products will earn consumer acceptance. The impacts of COVID-19 are inhibiting and delaying our ability to earn returns on these and other investments. If our entertainment offerings and products, including our content offerings, modified as a result of COVID-19, do not achieve sufficient consumer acceptance, our revenue from advertising sales (which are based in part on ratings for the programs in which advertisements air), affiliate fees, subscription fees, theatrical film receipts, the license of rights to other distributors, theme park admissions, hotel room charges and merchandise, food and beverage sales, sales of licensed consumer products or from sales of our other consumer products and services, may decline, decline further or fail to grow to the extent we anticipate when making investment decisions and thereby further adversely affect the profitability of one or more of our businesses. The success of our businesses is highly dependent on the existence and maintenance of intellectual property rights in the entertainment products and services we create. applicable laws in the U.S. and abroad and the manner in which those laws are construed. If those laws are drafted or interpreted in ways that limit the extent or duration of our rights, or if existing laws are changed, our ability to generate revenue from our intellectual property may decrease, or the cost of obtaining and maintaining rights may increase. reduce our revenues. The convergence of computing, communication and entertainment devices, increased broadband internet speed and penetration, increased availability and speed of mobile data transmission and increasingly sophisticated attempts to obtain unauthorized access to data systems have made the unauthorized digital copying and distribution of our films, television productions and other creative works easier and faster and protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights more challenging. The unauthorized distribution and access to entertainment content generally continues to be a significant challenge for intellectual property rights holders. Inadequate laws or weak enforcement mechanisms to protect entertainment industry intellectual property in one country can adversely affect the results of the Company s operations worldwide, despite the Company s efforts to protect its intellectual property rights. COVID-19 may increase incentives and opportunities to access content in unauthorized ways, as negative economic conditions coupled with a shift in government priorities could lead to less enforcement. These developments require us to devote substantial resources to protecting our intellectual property against unlicensed use and present the risk of increased losses of revenue as a result of unlicensed distribution of our content. Company is subject to the risk of challenges to our copyright, trademark and patent rights by third parties. Successful challenges to our rights in intellectual property may result in increased costs for obtaining rights or the loss of the opportunity to earn revenue from the intellectual property that is the subject of challenged rights. Protection of electronically stored data is costly, and if our data is compromised in spite of this protection, we may incur additional costs, lost opportunities and damage to our reputation. personal information regarding our customers and employees, in digital form. Data maintained in digital form is subject to the risk of unauthorized access, modification and exfiltration. We develop and maintain information security systems in an effort to prevent this, but the development and maintenance of these systems is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Accordingly, despite our efforts, unauthorized access, modification and exfiltration of data cannot be eliminated entirely, and the risks associated with a potentially material incident remain. In addition, we provide confidential, proprietary and personal information to third parties when it is necessary to pursue business objectives. While we obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information and, where we believe appropriate, monitor the protections employed by these third parties, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties may be compromised. If our information security systems or data are compromised in a material way, our ability to conduct our business may be impaired, we may lose profitable opportunities or the value of those opportunities may be diminished and, as described above, we may lose revenue as a result of unlicensed use of our intellectual property. If personal information of our customers or employees is misappropriated, our reputation with our customers and employees may be damaged resulting in loss of business or morale, and we may incur costs to remediate The value to us of our intellectual property rights is dependent on the scope and duration of our rights as defined by The unauthorized use of our intellectual property may increase the cost of protecting rights in our intellectual property or With respect to intellectual property developed by the Company and rights acquired by the Company from others, the We maintain information necessary to conduct our business, including confidential and proprietary information as well as 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 37 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 38 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS possible harm to our customers and employees and or to pay fines or take other action with respect to judicial or regulatory actions arising out of the incident. A variety of uncontrollable events may reduce demand for or consumption of our products and services, impair our ability to provide our products and services or increase the cost or reduce the profitability of providing our products and services. the general environment for travel and tourism. The environment for travel and tourism, as well as demand for and consumption of other entertainment products, can be significantly adversely affected in the U.S., globally or in specific regions as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including: adverse weather conditions arising from short-term weather patterns or long-term change, catastrophic events or natural disasters (such as excessive heat or rain, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, tsunamis and earthquakes) health concerns (including as it has been by COVID-19) international, political or military developments and terrorist attacks. These events and others, such as fluctuations in travel and energy costs and computer virus attacks, intrusions or other widespread computing or telecommunications failures, may also damage our ability to provide our products and services or to obtain insurance coverage with respect to some of these events. An incident that affected our property directly would have a direct impact on our ability to provide goods and services and could have an extended effect of discouraging consumers from attending our facilities. Moreover, the costs of protecting against such incidents, including the costs of protecting against the spread of COVID-19, reduces the profitability of our operations. products and services and reducing consumption of those products and services. Further, prior to COVID-19, events in Hong Kong impacted profitability of our Hong Kong operations and may continue to do so, and past hurricanes have impacted the profitability of Walt Disney World Resort in Florida and future hurricanes may also do so. businesses have limited access to government supported safety nets , which could lead to political instability and unrest, and further depress demand for our products and services over a longer timeframe. services by third parties, and the management of businesses operated under brands licensed from the Company, and we are therefore dependent on the successes of those third parties for that portion of our revenue. A wide variety of factors could influence the success of those third parties and if negative factors significantly impacted a sufficient number of those third parties, the profitability of one or more of our businesses could be adversely affected. Impacts of COVID-19 on third parties liquidity have impacted timely payments by such third parties to the Company. property and resulting business interruption, certain injuries occurring on our property and some liabilities for alleged breach of legal responsibilities. When insurance is obtained it is subject to deductibles, exclusions, terms, conditions and limits of liability. The types and levels of coverage we obtain vary from time to time depending on our view of the likelihood of specific types and levels of loss in relation to the cost of obtaining coverage for such types and levels of loss and we may experience material losses not covered by our insurance. For example, we expect some losses related to impacts of COVID-19 will not be covered by insurance available to us and insurers may contest coverage. Changes in our business strategy or restructuring of our businesses may increase our costs or otherwise affect the profitability of our businesses or the value of our assets. changes and we may otherwise decide to further restructure our operations or particular businesses or assets. For example, in October 2020 we announced a reorganization of our media and entertainment businesses to accelerate our direct-to-consumer strategies. Our new organization and strategies may not produce the anticipated benefits, such as supporting our growth strategies and enhancing shareholder value. Our new organization and strategies could be less successful than our previous organizational structure and strategies. In addition, external events including changing technology, changing consumer patterns, acceptance of our theatrical offerings and changes in macroeconomic conditions may impair the value of our assets. When these changes or events occur, we may incur costs to change our business strategy and may need to write-down the value of assets. For example, current conditions, including COVID-19 and our business decisions, have reduced the value of some of our assets. We have impaired goodwill and intangible assets at our International Channels businesses and written down the value of certain of our retail store assets. We may write-down other assets as our strategy evolves to account for the current business environment. We also make investments in existing or new businesses, including investments in international expansion of our business and in new business lines. In recent years, such investments have included expansion and renovation of certain of our theme parks, expansion of our fleet of cruise ships, the acquisition of TFCF and investments related to direct-to-consumer offerings. Some of these investments may have returns that are negative or low, the ultimate business prospects of the businesses related to these investments may be uncertain, these investments may impact the profitability of our other Demand for and consumption of our products and services, particularly our theme parks and resorts, is highly dependent on For example, COVID-19 and measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 are currently impairing our ability to provide our The negative economic consequences of COVID-19 may be particularly challenging in markets where individuals and local In addition, we derive affiliate fees and royalties from the distribution of our programming, sales of our licensed goods and We obtain insurance against the risk of losses relating to some of these events, generally including physical damage to our As changes in our business environment occur we have adjusted, and may further adjust our business strategies to meet these 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 39 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 40 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS businesses, and these risks are exacerbated by COVID-19. In any of these events, our costs may increase, we may have significant charges associated with the write-down of assets or returns on new investments may be lower than prior to the change in strategy or restructuring. Increased competitive pressures may reduce our revenues or increase our costs. and from other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities. This includes, among other types, competition for human resources, programming and other resources we require in operating our business. For example: talent necessary to produce high quality creative material. Such competition may also reduce, or limit growth in, prices for our products and services, including advertising rates and subscription fees at our media networks, parks and resorts admissions and room rates, and prices for consumer products from which we derive license revenues. Our results may be adversely affected if long-term programming or carriage contracts are not renewed on sufficiently favorable terms. contracts for the acquisition of programming rights for sporting events and other programs, and contracts for the distribution of our programming to content distributors. As these contracts expire, we must renew or renegotiate the contracts, and if we are unable to renew them on acceptable terms, we may lose programming rights or distribution rights. Even if these contracts are renewed, the cost of obtaining programming rights may increase (or increase at faster rates than our historical experience) or programming distributors, facing pressures resulting from increased subscription fees and alternative distribution challenges, may demand terms (including pricing and the breadth of distribution) that reduce our revenue from distribution of programs (or increase revenue at slower rates than our historical experience). Moreover, our ability to renew these contracts on favorable terms may be affected by consolidation in the market for program distribution, the entrance of new participants in the market for distribution of content on digital platforms and the impacts of COVID-19. With respect to the acquisition of programming rights, particularly sports programming rights, the impact of these long-term contracts on our results over the term of the contracts depends on a number of factors, including the strength of advertising markets, subscription levels and rates for programming, effectiveness of marketing efforts and the size of viewer audiences. There can be no assurance that revenues from programming based on these rights will exceed the cost of the rights plus the other costs of producing and distributing the programming. Changes in regulations applicable to our businesses may impair the profitability of our businesses. U.S. and overseas regulations. These regulations include: We face substantial competition in each of our businesses from alternative providers of the products and services we offer Our studio operations and media businesses compete to obtain creative, performing and business talent, sports and other programming, story properties, advertiser support and market share with other studio operations, broadcast and cable networks, SVOD providers and other new sources of broadband delivered content. Our broadcast and cable networks and stations and direct-to-consumer offerings compete for the sale of advertising time with other broadcast, cable and satellite services, as well as with newspapers, magazines, billboards and radio stations. In addition, we increasingly face competition for advertising sales from internet and mobile delivered content, which offer advertising delivery technologies that are more targeted than can be achieved through traditional means. Our cable networks compete for carriage of their programming with other programming providers. Our theme parks and resorts compete for guests with all other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreation activities. Our studio operations compete for customers with all other forms of entertainment. Our consumer products business competes with other licensors and creators of intellectual property. Our direct-to-consumer businesses compete for customers with competitors direct-to-consumer offerings, all other forms of media and all other forms of entertainment, as well as for technology, creative, performing and business talent and for content. Competition in each of these areas may increase as a result of technological developments and changes in market structure, including consolidation of suppliers of resources and distribution channels. Increased competition may divert consumers from our creative or other products, or to other products or other forms of entertainment, which could reduce our revenue or increase our marketing costs. Competition for the acquisition of resources can increase the cost of producing our products and services or deprive us of We enter into long-term contracts for both the acquisition and the distribution of media programming and products, including Our broadcast networks and television stations are highly regulated, and each of our other businesses is subject to a variety of U.S. FCC regulation of our television and radio networks, our national programming networks and our owned television stations. See Item 1 Business Media Networks, Federal Regulation. Federal, state and foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulations. 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 41 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS to comply with the regulations, or may restrict our ability to offer products and services in ways that are profitable. For example, in January 2019 India implemented regulation and tariffs impacting certain bundling of channels and in November 2020 potential U.S. legislation is pending prohibiting importation of goods from certain regions. businesses at all or in accordance with historic practice. In addition to the government requirements that have closed or impacted most of our businesses as a result of COVID-19, government requirements may continue to be extended and new government requirements may be imposed. Our operations outside the U.S. may be adversely affected by the operation of laws in those jurisdictions. than U.S. law. Laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the U.S. These differences can affect our ability to react to changes in our business, and our rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under U.S. law. Moreover, enforcement of laws in some overseas jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both our ability to enforce our rights and to undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. In addition, the business and political climate in some jurisdictions may encourage corruption, which could reduce our ability to compete successfully in those jurisdictions while remaining in compliance with local laws or U.S. anti-corruption laws applicable to our businesses. As a result, our ability to generate revenue and our expenses in non-U.S. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if U.S. law governed these operations. Damage to our reputation or brands may negatively impact our business across segments and regions. consumers across our businesses, damage to our reputation or brands in one business may have an impact on our other businesses. Because some of our brands are globally recognized, brand damage may not be locally contained. Maintenance of the reputation of our Company and brands depends on many factors including the quality of our offerings, maintenance of trust with our customers and our ability to successfully innovate. Significant negative claims or publicity regarding the Company or its operations, products, management, employees, practices, business partners, business decisions, social responsibility and culture may damage our brands or reputation, even if such claims are untrue. Damage to our reputation or brands could impact our sales, business opportunities, profitability, recruiting and valuation of our securities. Risks that impact our business as a whole may also impact the success of our direct-to-consumer (DTC) business. services, potentially exacerbated by an economic downturn. We face competition for creative talent and may not be successful in recruiting and retaining talent. Government regulation, including revised foreign content and ownership regulations, may impact the implementation of our DTC business plans. Poor quality broadband infrastructure in certain markets may impact our customers access to our DTC products and may diminish our customers experience with our DTC products. These and other risks may impact the profitability and success of our DTC businesses. Volatility in the financial markets and our debt ratings have impacted our cost of borrowing and could impede access to, or increase the cost of, financing our operations and investments. markets made it more difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. These conditions tended to increase the cost of borrowing and if they recur, our cost of borrowing could increase and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for our operations or investments. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies that are based, in part, on the Company s performance as measured by credit metrics such as leverage and interest coverage ratios. short-term debt ratings by one notch to A-2 and placed our long-term debt ratings on Negative Outlook. In May 2020, Fitch downgraded our long- and short-term credit ratings by one notch to A- and F2, respectively, and placed our long-term ratings Regulation of the safety and supply chain of consumer products and theme park operations, including potential regulation regarding the sourcing, importation and sale of goods. Environmental protection regulations. Imposition by foreign countries of trade restrictions, restrictions on the manner in which content is currently licensed and distributed, ownership restrictions, currency exchange controls or film or television content requirements, investment obligations or quotas. Domestic and international labor laws, tax laws or currency controls Changes in any of these regulations or regulatory activities in any of these areas may require us to spend additional amounts Public health and other regional, national, state and local regulations and policies are impacting our ability to operate our Our operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate rather Our reputation and globally recognizable brands are integral to the success of our businesses. Because our brands engage We may not successfully execute on our DTC strategy. Consumers may not be willing to pay for an expanding set of DTC U.S. and global markets have experienced significant volatility. Past disruptions in the U.S. and global credit and equity Since April 2020, Standard and Poor s has downgraded our long-term debt ratings by two notches to BBB , downgraded our 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 42 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 43 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS on Negative Outlook. On November 18, 2020, Standard and Poor s lowered the Company s long-term rating to BBB and placed the Company s long-term ratings on Negative Outlook. These ratings actions have increased, and any potential future downgrades could further increase, our cost of borrowing and or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. Past disruptions in the global financial markets also impacted some of the financial institutions with which we do business. A similar decline in the financial stability of financial institutions could affect our ability to secure credit-worthy counterparties for our interest rate and foreign currency hedging programs, could affect our ability to settle existing contracts and could also affect the ability of our business customers to obtain financing and thereby to satisfy their obligations to us. Labor disputes may disrupt our operations and adversely affect the profitability of any of our businesses. including employees of our theme parks and resorts as well as writers, directors, actors, production personnel and others employed in our media networks and studio operations. In addition, the employees of licensees who manufacture and retailers who sell our consumer products, and employees of providers of programming content (such as sports leagues) may be covered by labor agreements with their employers. In general, a labor dispute involving our employees or the employees of our licensees or retailers who sell our consumer products or providers of programming content may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and resolution of disputes may increase our costs. The seasonality of certain of our businesses and timing of certain of our product offerings could exacerbate negative impacts on our operations. offerings, including as follows: disproportionate effect on the results of that business for the year. Examples include the ongoing impact of COVID-19 on various high seasons or hurricane damage to our parks during the summer travel season. Sustained increases in costs of pension and postretirement medical and other employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our profitability. postretirement medical benefits. We may experience significant increases in these costs as a result of macroeconomic factors, which are beyond our control, including increases in the cost of health care. Impacts of COVID-19 may lead to an increase in the cost of medical insurance and expenses. In addition, changes in investment returns and discount rates used to calculate pension and postretirement medical expense and related assets and liabilities can be volatile and may have an unfavorable impact on our costs in some years. Our pension and postretirement medical plans were remeasured at the end of fiscal 2020, and as a result, the underfunded status and fiscal 2021 costs increased. These macroeconomic factors as well as a decline in the fair value of pension and postretirement medical plan assets may put upward pressure on the cost of providing pension and postretirement medical benefits and may increase future funding requirements. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce the profitability of our businesses. A significant number of employees in various parts of our businesses are covered by collective bargaining agreements, Each of our businesses is normally subject to seasonal variations and variations in connection with the timing of our product Revenues in our Media Networks segment are subject to seasonal advertising patterns, changes in viewership levels and timing of program sales. In general, advertising revenues are somewhat higher during the fall and somewhat lower during the summer months. Affiliate fees are typically recognized ratably throughout the year. Revenues in our Parks, Experiences and Products segment fluctuate with changes in theme park attendance and resort occupancy resulting from the seasonal nature of vacation travel and leisure activities and seasonal consumer purchasing behavior, which generally results in increased revenues during the Company s first and fourth fiscal quarters. Peak attendance and resort occupancy generally occur during the summer months when school vacations occur and during early winter and spring holiday periods. Our parks, resorts, stores and experiences are operating at diminished capacity or closed during these periods as a result of COVID-19. In addition, licensing revenues fluctuate with the timing and performance of our theatrical releases and cable programming broadcasts, many of which have been delayed, canceled or modified. Revenues in our Studio Entertainment segment fluctuate due to the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Release dates are determined by several factors, including competition, the timing of vacation and holiday periods and closing of theaters and impacts on attendance due to COVID-19. Direct-to-Consumer & International revenues fluctuate based on: changes in subscriber levels the timing and performance of releases of our digital media content viewership levels on our cable channels and digital platforms and the demand for sports and our content. Each of these may depend on the availability of content, which varies from time to time throughout the year based on, among other things, sports seasons, content production schedules and league shut downs. Accordingly, negative impacts on our business occurring during a time of typical high seasonal demand could have a With approximately 203,000 employees, our profitability is substantially affected by costs of pension and current and 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 44 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 45 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS The alteration or discontinuation of LIBOR may adversely affect our borrowing costs. based on LIBOR, which may be subject to regulatory guidance and or reform that could cause interest rates under our current or future debt agreements to perform differently than in the past or cause other unanticipated consequences. In July 2017, the Chief Executive of the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA ), which regulates LIBOR, announced that the FCA will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. Such announcement indicates that the continuation of LIBOR on the current basis cannot and will not be guaranteed after 2021. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee (ARCC), which was convened by the Federal Reserve Board and the New Your Fed, has identified the Secured Oversight Financing Rate (SOFR) as the recommended risk-free alternative rate for USD LIBOR. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect any discontinuance, modification or other reforms to LIBOR, or the establishment of alternative reference rates such as SOFR, or any other reference rate, will have on the Company. However, if LIBOR ceases to exist or if the methods of calculating LIBOR change from their current form, the Company s borrowing costs may be adversely affected. TFCF ACQUISITION RISKS Our consolidated indebtedness increased substantially following completion of the TFCF acquisition and may increase in connection with impacts of the COVID-19. This increased level of indebtedness could adversely affect us, including by decreasing our business flexibility. 4.2 billion, respectively. With the completion of the TFCF acquisition, our consolidated indebtedness and cash and cash equivalents as of September 28, 2019 were approximately 47.0 billion and 5.4 billion, respectively. As of October 3, 2020 our consolidated indebtedness and cash and cash equivalents were approximately 58.6 billion and 17.9 billion, respectively. The increased indebtedness could have the effect of, among other things, reducing our financial flexibility and reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, such as those presented by COVID-19, among others. Increased levels of indebtedness could also reduce funds available for capital expenditures, share repurchases and dividends, and other activities and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels. Since April 2020, Standard and Poor s has downgraded our long-term debt ratings by two notches to BBB , downgraded our short-term debt ratings by one notch to A-2 and placed our long-term debt ratings on Negative Outlook. In May 2020, Fitch downgraded our long- and short-term credit ratings by one notch to A- and F2, respectively, and placed our long-term ratings on Negative Outlook. Our financial flexibility may be further constrained by the issuance of shares of common stock in the TFCF acquisition, to the extent we determine to make dividend payments in the future. We could fail to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the TFCF acquisition. be realized fully or may take longer than expected to be realized, and these risks could be exacerbated by the impact of COVID-19. Further, there could be loss of key employees, loss of customers, disruption of ongoing businesses or unexpected issues, higher than expected costs and an overall post-acquisition process that takes longer than originally anticipated. Specifically, the following issues, among others, must be addressed in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the TFCF acquisition so the combined company performs as we hope: Consummation of the TFCF acquisition has increased our exposure to the risks of operating internationally. many of our businesses increasingly depend on acceptance of our offerings and products by consumers outside of the U.S., the combination with TFCF has increased the importance of international operations to our future operations, growth and prospects. Our risks of operating internationally have increased following the completion of the TFCF acquisition and as a result of COVID- 19. The TFCF acquisition and integration may result in additional costs and expenses. transaction costs in connection with the TFCF acquisition and integration. We may also incur accounting and other costs that were not anticipated at the time of the TFCF acquisition, including costs for which we have established reserves or which may lead to reserves in the future. Such costs could negatively impact the Company s free cash flow. combining the businesses of the Company and TFCF in a manner that permits us to achieve the synergies anticipated to result from the TFCF acquisition, the failure of which would result in the anticipated benefits of the TFCF acquisition not being realized in the time frame currently anticipated or at all maintaining existing agreements with customers, distributors, providers, talent and vendors and avoiding delays in entering into new agreements with prospective customers, distributors, providers, talent and vendors and developing products and technology that allow value to be unlocked in the future. Certain of our interest rate derivatives and a portion of our indebtedness bear interest at variable interest rates, primarily Our consolidated indebtedness and cash and cash equivalents as of September 29, 2018 were approximately 20.9 billion and If we are not able to realize the strategic value of the TFCF assets, the anticipated benefits of the TFCF acquisition may not We are a diversified entertainment company that offers entertainment, travel and consumer products worldwide. Although We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 46 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 47 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS GENERAL RISKS The Company s amended and restated bylaws provide to the fullest extent permitted by law that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for certain legal actions between the Company and its stockholders, which could increase costs to bring a claim, discourage claims or limit the ability of the Company s stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum viewed by the stockholders as more favorable for disputes with the Company or the Company s directors, officers or other employees. consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for any (i) derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Company, (ii) any action or proceeding asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any current or former director, officer or stockholder of the Company to the Company or the Company s stockholders, (iii) any action or proceeding asserting a claim arising pursuant to, or seeking to enforce any right, obligation or remedy under, any provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the DGCL ), the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws (as each may be amended from time to time), (iv) any action or proceeding as to which the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, (v) or any action or proceeding asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision may increase costs to bring a claim, discourage claims or limit a stockholder s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with the Company or the Company s directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against the Company or the Company s directors, officers and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in the Company s amended and restated bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, the Company may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions. The exclusive forum provision in the Company s amended and restated bylaws will not preclude or contract the scope of exclusive federal or concurrent jurisdiction for actions brought under the federal securities laws including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the respective rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments issued 180 days or more preceding the end of fiscal 2020 and that remain unresolved. ITEM 2. Properties Company and its subsidiaries are described in Item 1 under the caption Parks, Experiences and Products. Film and television library properties are described in Item 1 under the caption Media Networks and Studio Entertainment. Television stations owned by the Company are described in Item 1 under the caption Media Networks. The Company s amended and restated bylaws provide to the fullest extent permitted by law that unless the Company The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were The Walt Disney World Resort, Disneyland Resort, retail store locations leased by the Company and other properties of the 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 48 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS the table below provides a brief description of other significant properties and the related business segment. ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings disclosure set forth in Note 15 relating to certain legal matters is incorporated herein by reference. actions involving copyright, breach of contract and various other claims incident to the conduct of its businesses. Management does not expect the Company to suffer any material liability by reason of these actions. ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Executive Officers of the Company follows the annual meeting of the shareholders, and at other Board of Directors meetings, as appropriate. Each of the Burbank, CA & surrounding Burbank, CA & surrounding Los Angeles, CA Land (22 acres) & Buildings (600,000 ft ) Los Angeles, CA Buildings (2,724,000 ft ) Leased Office Production Technical Theater (includes 376,000 ft sublet to third-party tenants) New York, NY Buildings (51,000 ft ) Owned Office Production Technical Media Corp New York, NY Buildings (2,716,000 ft ) Leased Office Production Theater Warehouse (includes 676,000 ft sublet to third-party tenants) Bristol, CT Land (117 acres) & Buildings (1,174,000 ft ) Bristol, CT Buildings (512,000 ft ) Leased Office Warehouse Technical Media Studio Emeryville, CA Land (20 acres) & Buildings (430,000 ft ) Emeryville, CA Buildings (80,000 ft ) Leased Office Storage Studio Media San Francisco, CA Buildings (646,000 ft ) Leased Office Production Technical Theater (includes 57,000 ft sublet to third-party tenants) USA & Canada Land and Buildings (Multiple sites and sizes) Hammersmith, England Building (284,000 ft ) Leased Office Corp Studio Media PEP DTCI Europe, Asia, Australia & Latin America The Company and its subsidiaries own and lease properties throughout the world. In addition to the properties noted above, As disclosed in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is engaged in certain legal matters, and the The Company, together with, in some instances, certain of its directors and officers, is a defendant in various other legal Not applicable. The executive officers of the Company are elected each year at the organizational meeting of the Board of Directors, which Corp Corporate, PEP Parks, Experiences and Products, DTCI Direct-To-Consumer & International Surrounding cities include Glendale, CA, North Hollywood, CA and Sun Valley, CA Land (201 acres) & Buildings (4,695,000 ft ) Buildings (1,748,000 ft ) Leased Office Warehouse Corp Studio Media PEP DTCI Buildings (Multiple sites and sizes) Approximate Size Use Business Segment Property Owned Office Production Warehouse (includes 239,000 ft sublet to third-party tenants) Owned Office Production Technical Media Studio DTCI Owned Office Production Technical Media Studio Owned Office Production Technical Studio Owned and Leased Office Production Transmitter Theaters Warehouse Leased Office Warehouse Retail Residential Studio Media PEP DTCI Corp Studio Media PEP DTCI Media Studio Corp Studio Media PEP DTCI Studio Media PEP DTCI Corp Studio Media PEP DTCI 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 49 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS executive officers has been employed by the Company in the position or positions indicated in the list and pertinent notes below. Each of the executive officers has been employed by the Company for more than five years. Robert A. Iger 69 Executive Chairman 2000 Robert A. Chapek 61 Chief Executive Officer 2020 Alan N. Braverman 72 Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 2003 Christine M. McCarthy 65 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 2005 M. Jayne Parker 59 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer 2009 Zenia B. Mucha 64 Senior Executive Vice President Corporate Communications 2018 At October 3, 2020, the executive officers of the Company were as follows: Mr. Iger was appointed Executive Chairman effective February 24, 2020, he is also Chairman of the Board from March 2012. He was Chief Executive Officer from October 2005 to February 2020. Mr. Chapek was appointed Chief Executive Officer effective February 24, 2020. He served as Chairman of Disney Parks, Experiences and Products since the segment s creation in 2018, and prior to that was Chairman of Walt Disney Parks and Resorts since 2015. Ms. McCarthy was appointed Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective June 30, 2015. She was previously Executive Vice President, Corporate Real Estate, Alliances and Treasurer of the Company from 2000 to 2015. Ms. Parker was appointed Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer effective August 20, 2017. She was previously Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer from 2009. Ms. Mucha was appointed Senior Executive Vice President Corporate Communications effective August 2016. She was previously Executive Vice President Corporate Communications from March 2005. Name Age Title Officer Since 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 50 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 5. Market for the Company s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act during the quarter ended October 3, 2020: at a price of 129.5537 per share, which was determined by applying a volume weighed average price over a period of 30 trading days, in satisfaction of contractual obligations of the Company undertaken in a commercial agreement entered into in the ordinary course of business. The shares issued are subject to restrictions which, among other things, are designed to assure that any resales will occur in reliance on an applicable exemption under the Securities Act. June 28, 2020 July 31, 2020 27,550 117.57 n a August 1, 2020 August 31, 2020 22,011 128.29 n a September 1, 2020 October 3, 2020 21,613 131.57 n a Total 71,174 125.14 n a The Company s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol DIS . See Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the Company s dividends in fiscal 2020 and 2019. As of October 3, 2020, the approximate number of common shareholders of record was 826,250. The following table provides information about Company purchases of equity securities that are registered by the Company During the fiscal quarter ended October 3, 2020, 823,340 shares of common stock were issued in a privately negotiated sale, 71,174 shares were purchased on the open market to provide shares to participants in the Walt Disney Investment Plan (WDIP). These purchases were not made pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan or program. Not applicable as the Company no longer has a stock repurchase plan or program. Total Number Paid per Share Average Price Total Number Announced Purchased as Part of of Shares Plans or Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 51 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data (in millions, except per share data) Statements of operations Balance sheets Statements of cash flows Revenues 65,388 69,607 59,434 55,137 55,632 Net income (loss) from continuing Net income (loss) from continuing Per common share Total assets 201,549 193,984 98,598 95,789 92,033 Long-term obligations 79,370 60,852 24,797 26,710 24,189 Disney shareholders equity 83,583 88,877 48,773 41,315 43,265 operations (2,442) 10,897 13,066 9,366 9,790 operations attributable to Disney (2,832) 10,425 12,598 8,980 9,391 Cash provided (used) by - continuing operations: Earnings (loss) attributable to Disney: Dividends 0.88 1.76 1.68 1.56 1.42 Continuing Operations - Diluted (1.57) 6.26 8.36 5.69 5.73 Continuing Operations - Basic (1.57) 6.30 8.40 5.73 5.76 Operating activities 7,616 5,984 14,295 12,343 13,136 Investing activities (3,850) (15,096) (5,336) (4,111) (5,758) Financing activities 8,480 (464) (8,843) (8,959) (7,220) Fiscal 2020 results include the impact of COVID-19 (estimated at approximately 3.19 per diluted share), goodwill and intangible asset impairments at our International Channels business ( 2.53 per diluted share), amortization expense related to recognition of TFCF and Hulu intangible assets and fair value step-up on film and television costs ( 1.17 per diluted share), a non-cash gain to adjust our investment in DraftKings, Inc. to fair value (DraftKings gain) ( 0.41 per diluted share) and restructuring and impairment charges ( 0.33 per diluted share). At the beginning of fiscal 2020, the Company adopted new lease accounting guidance increasing total assets and liabilities by approximately 3.7 billion. On March 20, 2019, the Company acquired TFCF for cash and Disney shares (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). TFCF and Hulu s financial results have been consolidated since the date of acquisition. The acquisition had a number of impacts on fiscal 2019 results, the most significant of which were a non-cash gain from remeasuring our initial 30% interest in Hulu to fair value ( 2.22 per diluted share), amortization expense related to recognition of TFCF and Hulu intangible assets and fair value step-up on film and television costs ( 0.74 per diluted share), restructuring and impairment charges ( 0.55 per diluted share), an adverse impact from TFCF and Hulu operating results ( 0.27 per diluted share) and a charge for the extinguishment of a portion of the debt originally assumed in the TFCF acquisition ( 0.24 per diluted share). Fiscal 2019 results also reflected equity investment impairments ( 0.25 per diluted share). Cash provided by continuing operating activities reflected payments for tax obligations that arose from the spin-off of Fox Corporation in connection with the TFCF acquisition and the sale of the Regional Sports Networks (RSN) acquired with TFCF ( 7.6 billion). Cash used in continuing investing activities reflected a cash payment of 35.7 billion paid to acquire TFCF, offset by 25.7 billion in cash and cash equivalents assumed in the TFCF acquisition. Fiscal 2018 results include a net benefit from the Tax Act Deferred Remeasurement, net of the Deemed Repatriation Tax ( 1.11 per diluted share) and the Tax Act reduction in the fiscal 2018 U.S. federal statutory income tax rate ( 0.75 per diluted share) (see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). In addition, fiscal 2018 included gains on the sales of real estate and property rights ( 0.28 per diluted share) and an adverse impact from equity investment impairments ( 0.11 per diluted share). Fiscal 2017 results include a non-cash net gain in connection with the acquisition of a controlling interest in BAMTech ( 0.10 per diluted share). Fiscal 2016 results include the Company s share of a net gain recognized by A E in connection with an acquisition of an interest in Vice ( 0.13 per diluted share). 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 52 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Costs and expenses: Restructuring and impairment charges (5,735) (1,183) (100) % Other income, net 1,038 4,357 (76) % Interest expense, net (1,491) (978) (52) % Equity in the income (loss) of investees, net 651 (103) nm Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (1,743) 13,923 nm Income taxes from continuing operations (699) (3,026) 77 % Net income (loss) from continuing operations (2,442) 10,897 nm Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax benefit (expense) Net income (loss) (2,474) 11,584 nm Less: Net income from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling and Less: Net income from discontinued operations attributable to noncontrolling Net income (loss) attributable to Disney (2,864) 11,054 nm Earnings (loss) per share attributable to Disney: Services 59,265 60,579 (2) % Products 6,123 9,028 (32) % Cost of services (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) (39,406) (36,493) (8) % Cost of products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) (4,474) (5,568) 20 % Selling, general, administrative and other (12,369) (11,549) (7) % Depreciation and amortization (5,345) (4,167) (28) % of 10 and ( 39), respectively (32) 687 nm redeemable noncontrolling interests (390) (472) 17 % interests (58) 100 % Weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding: Total revenues 65,388 69,607 (6) % Total costs and expenses (61,594) (57,777) (7) % Continuing operations (1.57) 6.26 nm Discontinued operations (0.02) 0.38 nm Continuing operations (1.57) 6.30 nm Discontinued operations (0.02) 0.38 nm Diluted 1,808 1,666 Basic 1,808 1,656 Total may not equal the sum of the column due to rounding. (in millions, except per share data) CONSOLIDATED RESULTS (1.58) 6.64 nm (1.58) 6.68 nm Better (Worse) 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 53 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Organization of Information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying financial statements. It includes the following sections: of fiscal 2018 results and comparisons of fiscal 2019 results to fiscal 2018 results can be found in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2019. SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS Strategic Reorganization the growth of our DTC strategy. The operations of the Media Networks, Studio Entertainment and DTCI segments were reorganized into four groups: three content groups (Studios, General Entertainment and Sports), which are focused on developing and producing content that will be used across all of our traditional and DTC platforms and a distribution group, which is focused on distribution and commercialization activities across these platforms and which has full accountability for media and entertainment operating results globally. COVID-19 Pandemic COVID-19 and measures to prevent its spread impacted our segments in a number of ways, most significantly at Parks, Experiences and Products where our theme parks were closed or operating at significantly reduced capacity for a significant portion of the year, cruise ship sailings and guided tours were suspended since late in the second quarter and retail stores were closed for a significant portion of the year. We also had an adverse impact on our merchandise licensing business. Our Studio Entertainment segment has delayed, or in some cases, shortened or cancelled, theatrical releases, and stage play performances have been suspended since late in the second quarter. We also had adverse impacts on advertising sales at Media Networks and Direct- to-Consumer & International. Since March 2020, we have experienced significant disruptions in the production and availability of content, including the shift of key live sports programming from our third quarter to the fourth quarter and into fiscal 2021, as well as the suspension of production of most film and television content since late in the second quarter, although some film and television production resumed in the fourth quarter. significantly increased cash balances through the issuance of senior notes in March and May 2020, and we entered into an additional 5.0 billion credit facility in April 2020. The Company (or our Board of Directors, as applicable) did not declare a dividend with respect to fiscal 2020 operations suspended certain capital projects reduced certain discretionary expenditures (such as spending on marketing) reduced management compensation for several months and temporarily eliminated Board of Director retainers and committee fees. In addition, we furloughed over 120,000 of our employees (who continued to receive Company provided medical benefits), many of which have returned from furlough as certain business operations have reopened. At the end of September, the Company announced a workforce reduction plan that would primarily impact Parks, Experiences and Products. Overall, approximately 32,000 employees will be terminated in the first half of fiscal 2021. We may take additional mitigation actions in the future such as raising additional financing not declaring future dividends reducing, or not making, certain payments, such as some contributions to our pension and postretirement medical plans further suspending capital spending, reducing film and television content investments or implementing additional furloughs or reductions in force. Some of these measures may have an adverse impact on our businesses. Management s Discussion and Analysis provides a narrative on the Company s financial performance and condition that Significant Developments Consolidated Results and Non-Segment Items Business Segment Results Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses Restructuring Activities Liquidity and Capital Resources Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Forward-Looking Statements In Item 7, we discuss fiscal 2020 and 2019 results and comparisons of fiscal 2020 results to fiscal 2019 results. Discussions In October 2020, the Company announced a strategic reorganization of our media and entertainment businesses to accelerate During fiscal 2020 and continuing into fiscal 2021, the world has been, and continues to be, impacted by COVID-19. We have taken a number of mitigation efforts in response to the impacts of COVID-19 on our businesses. We have 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 54 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 55 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS billion on operating income at our Parks, Experiences and Products segment due to revenue lost as a result of the closures or reduced operating capacities. The impacts at the Media Networks, Direct-to-Consumer & International and Studio Entertainment segments were less significant. Media Networks had a modest benefit reflecting the deferral of sports programming costs to fiscal 2021, when we expect rescheduled events to occur, partially offset by lower advertising revenue. At Direct-to-Consumer & International, lower advertising revenue was partially offset by lower costs including the deferral of sports programming costs into fiscal 2021. At Studio Entertainment, lower revenues due to the deferral or cancellation of significant film releases as a result of theater closures were partially offset by lower amortization, marketing and distribution costs. In total, we estimate the net adverse impact of COVID-19 on our full year segment operating income across all of our businesses was approximately 7.4 billion, inclusive of the impact at Parks, Experiences and Products. The estimated impact is net of approximately 500 million in government credits, from the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act ( CARES Act ) in the U.S. and a similar program in France, both primarily at our Parks, Experiences and Products segment. The impact in fiscal 2020 is not necessarily indicative of the impact on future period results, including the impact of sports programming cost deferrals. by the length of time that such disruptions continue, which will, in turn, depend on the currently unknowable duration and severity of the impacts of COVID-19, and among other things, the impact and duration of governmental actions imposed in response to COVID-19 and individuals and companies risk tolerance regarding health matters going forward. While we cannot be certain as to the duration of the impacts of COVID-19, we currently expect COVID-19 to adversely impact our financial results at least through fiscal 2021. to address government regulations and the safety of our employees, talent and guests. For example, as we reopened theme parks and retail stores, we incurred and will continue to incur costs for such things as additional custodial services, personal protection equipment, temperature screenings and testing, sanitizer and cleaning supplies and signage, among other items. As we resume production of film and television content, including live sporting events, we anticipate incurring similar costs and productions may take longer to complete. The timing, duration and extent of these costs will depend on the timing and scope of the resumption of our operations. We currently estimate these costs may total approximately 1 billion in fiscal 2021. Some of these costs may be capitalized and amortized over future periods. With the unknown duration of COVID-19 and yet to be determined timing of the phased reopening of certain businesses, it is not possible to precisely estimate the impact of COVID-19 on our operations in future quarters. As we reopen our businesses, we will no longer benefit from certain savings related to the closure of those businesses, such as related furloughs. The reopening or closure of our businesses is dependent on applicable government requirements, which vary by location, are subject to ongoing changes, which could result from increasing COVID-19 cases. unknown length of time and may continue to impact certain of our key sources of revenue. Direct-to-Consumer Star Wars and National Geographic branded programming in the U.S. and four other countries and has expanded to select Western European countries in the Spring of 2020. In April 2020, our Hotstar service in India was converted to Disney Hotstar, and in June 2020, current subscribers of the Disney Deluxe service in Japan were converted to Disney . In September 2020, Disney was launched in additional European countries and Disney Hotstar was launched in Indonesia. In November 2020, Disney was launched in Latin America. Additional launches are planned for various Asia-Pacific territories in calendar year 2021. U.S. in calendar year 2021. the sale of this content to third parties in TV SVOD markets. We also expect to forgo revenue as we shut down channels in certain markets as a result of investment in our DTC offerings. In addition, we are increasing programming and production investments to create exclusive content for our DTC offerings. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS AND NON-SEGMENT ITEMS whereas the fiscal 2020 results include the consolidated results of TFCF and Hulu for the full year. We refer to the impact of the approximately six month non-comparable period as the consolidation of TFCF and Hulu . The most significant impact of COVID-19 on fiscal 2020 operating results was an estimated detriment of approximately 6.9 The impact of these disruptions and the extent of their adverse impact on our financial and operational results will be dictated Some of our businesses have reopened with limited operations. We have incurred and will continue to incur additional costs Additionally, see Part I., Item 1A. Risk Factors - The adverse impact of COVID-19 on our businesses will continue for an In November 2019, the Company launched Disney , a subscription based DTC streaming service with Disney, Pixar, Marvel, The Company also plans to launch a general entertainment DTC video streaming offering under the Star brand outside the As we will use our branded film and television content on our DTC offerings, we are forgoing certain licensing revenue from Fiscal 2019 includes the consolidated results of TFCF and Hulu for the period March 20, 2019 through September 28, 2019, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 56 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS that approximately every six years, we have a fifty-three week year. Fiscal 2020 is a fifty-three week year, which began on September 29, 2019 and ended on October 3, 2020. We estimate that the additional week of operations in fiscal 2020 resulted in a benefit to pre-tax income of approximately 200 million, primarily at the Media Networks segment. billion, to a loss of 2.9 billion and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Disney decreased to a loss of 1.57 compared to income of 6.26 in the prior year. The EPS decrease for the year was due to lower segment operating income, goodwill and intangible asset impairments at our International Channels business, the comparison to a prior-year non-cash gain in connection with the acquisition of Hulu (Hulu gain), higher amortization of intangible assets and fair value step-up on film and television costs from the TFCF acquisition and the consolidation of Hulu and higher interest expense. These decreases were partially offset by an investment gain in the current year and the comparison to investment impairments and a charge for the extinguishment of debt recorded in the prior year. The decrease in segment operating income was due to lower results at Parks, Experiences and Products and higher losses at Direct-to-Consumer & International, partially offset by an increase at our Media Networks segment. Segment operating results for the current period include a 0.5 billion net benefit from the consolidation of TFCF and Hulu. resorts and cruise line, a decrease in theatrical distribution and stage play revenues, lower advertising revenue and a decrease in sales of our television and film programs to third parties. These decreases were partially offset by the consolidation of TFCF and Hulu and an increase in subscription revenue from Disney Disney Hotstar and Hulu. Theme park, resort, cruise line, theatrical distribution, stage play and advertising revenue were adversely impacted by COVID-19. resorts, which were impacted by being closed or operating at reduced capacity for a significant part of the year as a result of COVID-19. Costs and expenses and an increase in programming and production costs, partially offset by lower theatrical and TV SVOD production cost amortization and distribution costs and decreased volumes at our theme parks, resorts and cruise line. The increase in programming and production costs reflected costs for Disney programming, partially offset by a decrease due to a shift in timing of major sporting events to fiscal 2021. consolidation of TFCF and Hulu, partially offset by lower marketing costs. The decrease in marketing costs reflected lower spending at the theatrical distribution and theme parks and resorts businesses, partially offset by increased spend for Disney . arising from the acquisition of TFCF and consolidation of Hulu and, to a lesser extent, higher depreciation for new attractions at our domestic parks and resorts. Restructuring and Impairment Charges goodwill and intangible assets at our International Channels business and 782 million of restructuring costs. Restructuring costs were primarily for severance costs and contract termination charges in connection with the acquisition and integration of TFCF and severance in connection with the reduction-in-force at our Parks, Experiences and Products segment. compensation costs in connection with the acquisition and integration of TFCF. The Company s fiscal year end is on the Saturday closest to September 30 and consists of fifty-two weeks with the exception Revenues for fiscal 2020 decreased 6%, or 4.2 billion, to 65.4 billion net income attributable to Disney decreased 13.9 Service revenues for fiscal 2020 decreased 2%, or 1.3 billion, to 59.3 billion, driven by lower volumes at our theme parks, Product revenues for fiscal 2020 decreased 32%, or 2.9 billion, to 6.1 billion, due to lower volumes at our theme parks and Cost of services for fiscal 2020 increased 8%, or 2.9 billion, to 39.4 billion, due to the consolidation of TFCF and Hulu Cost of products for fiscal 2020 decreased 20%, or 1.1 billion, to 4.5 billion, due to lower volumes at our theme parks and Selling, general, administrative and other costs for fiscal 2020 increased 7%, or 0.8 billion, to 12.4 billion, due to the Depreciation and amortization costs increased 28%, or 1.2 billion, to 5.3 billion due to the amortization of intangible assets Restructuring and impairment charges of 5.7 billion for fiscal 2020 were due to 4,953 million of impairment charges for Restructuring and impairment charges of 1.2 billion in fiscal 2019 were primarily for severance and equity-based 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 57 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Other Income, net value (DraftKings gain). In addition, the Company recognized a gain of 65 million on the sale of an investment. connection with the settlement of legal matters, and recorded a gain of 28 million on the deemed settlement of preexisting relationships with TFCF pursuant to acquisition accounting guidance. In addition, the Company recorded a charge of 511 million for the extinguishment of a portion of the debt originally assumed in the TFCF acquisition. Interest Expense, net benefit costs, other than service cost and higher net investment impairments, partially offset by higher imputed interest income on long-term receivables for film and television program sales driven by the consolidation of TFCF. Equity in the Income (Loss) of Investees million in the prior year. The change reflected the comparison to impairments in the prior year on our investment in Vice Group Holding Inc. and on an investment in a cable channel at A E Television Networks and lower equity losses from Hulu as a result of our consolidation of Hulu following the TFCF acquisition. Effective Income Tax Rate tax deductible, and foreign losses in fiscal 2020 for which we are unable to recognize a tax benefit. Noncontrolling Interests Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and Shanghai Disney Resort, partially offset by a higher adverse impact from the accretion of the Hulu redeemable noncontrolling interest due to the consolidation of Hulu. costs and income taxes, as applicable. (in millions) 2020 2019 DraftKings Gain 973 nm Gain on sale of an investment 65 nm Hulu Gain 4,794 nm Insurance recoveries related to legal matters 46 nm Gain recognized in connection with the acquisition of TFCF 28 nm Charge for the extinguishment of a portion of the debt Other income, net 1,038 4,357 (76) % (in millions) 2020 2019 Interest expense (1,647) (1,246) (32) % Interest income, investment income and other 156 268 (42) % Interest expense, net (1,491) (978) (52) % Effective income tax rate - continuing operations (40.1)% 21.7% (61.8) ppt (in millions) 2020 2019 Net income from continuing operations attributable to originally assumed in the TFCF acquisition (511) nm noncontrolling interests (390) (472) 17% In fiscal 2020, the Company recognized a non-cash gain of 973 million to adjust its investment in DraftKings, Inc. to fair In fiscal 2019, the Company recognized the 4,794 million Hulu gain, recorded insurance recoveries of 46 million in The increase in interest expense was due to higher average debt balances, partially offset by lower average interest rates. The decrease in interest income, investment income and other was due to a lower benefit from pension and postretirement Equity in the income (loss) of investees reflected income of 651 million in the current year compared to a loss of 103 The decrease in net income from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling interests was due to lower results at Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is determined on income after royalties and management fees, financing The change in effective income tax rate is due to the fiscal 2020 impairment of International Channels goodwill, which is not Better (Worse) Better (Worse) Better (Worse) Better (Worse) 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 58 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 59 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Discontinued Operations Certain Items Impacting Comparability (in millions, except per share data) Year Ended October 3, 2020: Restructuring and impairment charges (5,735) 571 (5,164) (2.86) Amortization of TFCF and Hulu intangible assets DraftKings gain 973 (227) 746 0.41 Gain on sale of an investment 65 (15) 50 0.03 Total (7,543) 991 (6,552) (3.59) Year Ended September 28, 2019: Hulu Gain 4,794 (1,103) 3,691 2.22 Insurance recoveries and gains on the settlement of Benefit from the Tax Act 34 34 0.02 Amortization of TFCF and Hulu intangible assets Restructuring and impairment charges (1,183) 273 (910) (0.55) Impairment of equity investments (538) 123 (415) (0.25) Charge for the extinguishment of debt (511) 118 (393) (0.24) Total 1,041 (217) 824 0.50 and fair value step-up on film and television costs (2,846) 662 (2,184) (1.17) preexisting relationships 74 (17) 57 0.03 and fair value step-up on film and television costs (1,595) 355 (1,240) (0.74) Net income from discontinued operations in fiscal 2019 reflected the operations of the RSNs. Results for fiscal 2020 were impacted by the following: Goodwill and intangible asset impairments of 4,953 million and restructuring charges of 782 million Amortization expense of 2,846 million related to TFCF and Hulu intangible assets and fair value step-up on film and television costs The DraftKings gain of 973 million A gain of 65 million on the sale of an investment Results for fiscal 2019 were impacted by the following: The Hulu Gain of 4,794 million A benefit of 74 million consisting of 46 million from insurance recoveries related to a legal matter and a gain of 28 million recognized on the settlement of preexisting relationships with TFCF pursuant to acquisition accounting guidance A benefit of 34 million from U.S. federal income tax legislation enacted in fiscal 2018 Amortization expense of 1,595 million related to TFCF and Hulu intangible assets and fair value step-up on film and television costs Restructuring and impairment charges of 1,183 million Impairments of 538 million on equity investments A charge of 511 million for the extinguishment of a portion of debt originally assumed in the TFCF acquisition A summary of the impact of these items on EPS is as follows: Tax benefit expense adjustments are determined using the tax rate applicable to the individual item affecting comparability. EPS is net of noncontrolling interest share, where applicable. Total may not equal the sum of the column due to rounding. Includes amortization of intangibles related to TFCF equity investees. Pre-Tax Income Tax Benefit (Expense) Income (Loss) EPS Favorable (Adverse) 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 60 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS 2020 vs. 2019 segment consist of operating expenses, selling, general, administrative and other costs, and depreciation and amortization. Selling, general, administrative and other costs include third-party and internal marketing expenses. and the sale and distribution of television programs in TV SVOD markets. Significant expenses include amortization of programming and production costs, participations and residuals expense, technical support costs, operating labor and distribution costs. sale of food, beverage and merchandise at our theme parks and resorts, charges for room nights at hotels, sales of cruise vacations, sales and rentals of vacation club properties, royalties from licensing intellectual properties and the sale of branded merchandise. Revenues are also generated from sponsorships and co-branding opportunities, real estate rent and sales, and royalties from Tokyo Disney Resort. Significant expenses include operating labor, costs of goods sold, infrastructure costs, depreciation and other operating expenses. Infrastructure costs include information systems expense, repairs and maintenance, utilities and fuel, property taxes, retail occupancy costs, insurance and transportation. Other operating expenses include costs for such items as supplies, commissions and entertainment offerings. entertainment and TV SVOD markets, stage play ticket sales and licensing of our intellectual properties for use in live entertainment productions. Significant expenses include amortization of production, participations and residuals costs, marketing and sales costs, distribution expenses and costs of sales. services, affiliate fees and advertising sales (including addressable ad sales). Significant expenses include operating expenses, selling general and administrative costs and depreciation and amortization. Operating expenses include programming and production costs (including programming, production and branded digital content obtained from other Company segments), technology support costs, operating labor and distribution costs. uses total segment operating income as a measure of the overall performance of the operating businesses. Total segment operating income is not a financial measure defined by GAAP, should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measure and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The Company believes that information about total segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company s portfolio of businesses separate from factors other than business operations that affect net income. (in millions) 2020 2019 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (1,743) 13,923 nm Add (subtract): Total segment operating income 8,108 14,847 (45) % Corporate and unallocated shared expenses 817 987 17 % Restructuring and impairment charges 5,735 1,183 (100) % Other income, net (1,038) (4,357) (76) % Interest expense, net 1,491 978 (52) % Amortization of TFCF and Hulu intangible assets and fair value Impairment of equity investments 538 100 % step-up on film and television costs 2,846 1,595 (78) % Below is a discussion of the major revenue and expense categories for our business segments. Costs and expenses for each Our Media Networks segment primarily generates revenue from affiliate fees, advertising (excluding addressable ad sales) Our Parks, Experiences and Products segment primarily generates revenue from the sale of admissions to theme parks, the Our Studio Entertainment segment primarily generates revenue from the distribution of films in the theatrical, home Our Direct-to-Consumer & International segment primarily generates revenue from subscription fees for our DTC streaming The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management The following table reconciles income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes to total segment operating Includes amortization of intangibles related to TFCF equity investees Better (Worse) 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 61 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Media Networks and 2% from the benefit of an additional week in the current year, partially offset by a decrease of 4% from fewer subscribers. The subscriber decline was net of a benefit from the ACC Network which launched in August 2019. million and 199 million at Broadcasting, from 3,462 million to 3,263 million. Cable Networks advertising revenue reflected a decrease of 22% from lower impressions reflecting lower average viewership due to the impact COVID-19 had on live sports events. This decrease was partially offset by increases of 7% from the consolidation of TFCF, 4% from the benefit of an additional week of operations, which included MLB and NBA events, and 2% from higher rates. Broadcasting advertising revenue reflected decreases of 9% from lower network impressions reflecting lower average viewership and 3% from the owned television stations. These decreases were partially offset by increases of 3% from higher network rates, 2% from the benefit of an additional week of operations and 2% from the consolidation of TFCF. consisted primarily of program sales, and higher program sales at Disney Television Studios, Disney Channel and FX. The increase in Disney Television Studios was primarily due to sales of original titles to Hulu and library titles to Hulu and (in millions) 2020 2019 Segment operating income (loss): Year Ended % Change (Worse) (in millions) October 3, 2020 Total revenues 28,393 24,827 14 % Operating expenses (17,387) (15,499) (12) % Selling, general, administrative and other (2,514) (2,361) (6) % Depreciation and amortization (207) (191) (8) % Equity in the income of investees 737 703 5 % Operating Income 9,022 7,479 21 % Media Networks 28,393 24,827 14 % Parks, Experiences and Products 16,502 26,225 (37) % Studio Entertainment 9,636 11,127 (13) % Direct-to-Consumer & International 16,967 9,386 81 % Eliminations (6,110) (1,958) (100) % Media Networks 9,022 7,479 21 % Parks, Experiences and Products (81) 6,758 nm Studio Entertainment 2,501 2,686 (7) % Direct-to-Consumer & International (2,806) (1,835) (53) % Eliminations (528) (241) (100) % Affiliate fees 15,018 13,433 12 % Advertising 6,374 6,965 (8) % TV SVOD distribution and other 7,001 4,429 58 % The following is a summary of segment revenue and operating income: Operating results for the Media Networks segment are as follows: The increase in affiliate fees was due to increases of 8% from higher contractual rates, 6% from the consolidation of TFCF The decline in advertising revenues was due to decreases of 392 million at Cable Networks, from 3,503 million to 3,111 The increase in TV SVOD distribution and other revenue of 2,572 million was due to the consolidation of TFCF, which 65,388 69,607 (6) % 8,108 14,847 (45) % September 28, Better (Worse) 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 62 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Disney . The increases at Disney Channel and FX were due to program sales to Disney and Hulu, respectively. These increases were partially offset by lower sales to third parties. Costs and Expenses 16,554 million. At Cable Networks, programming and production costs increased 435 million due to the consolidation of TFCF, contractual increases for college football, NFL and NBA programming, higher program sales and costs for the ACC Network. These increases were partially offset by the deferral of costs for NBA, MLB and college football to fiscal 2021 when these events occurred or are scheduled to occur. At Broadcasting, programming and production costs increased 1,422 million due to the consolidation of TFCF and higher program sales at Disney Television Studios, partially offset by lower costs driven by production shutdowns and delays as a result of COVID-19. consolidation of TFCF, partially offset by lower marketing costs at the ABC Television Network, FX Networks and ESPN due to the impact of COVID-19. Equity in the Income of Investees Television Networks due to lower programming costs and higher program sales, partially offset by lower advertising revenue. Segment Operating Income increases at ESPN, the FX Networks, Disney Television Studios and the ABC Television Network. Items Excluded from Segment Operating Income Related to Media Networks from segment operating income: Year Ended % Change (Worse) (in millions) October 3, 2020 Supplemental revenue detail Supplemental operating income detail (Worse) (in millions) Amortization of TFCF intangible assets and fair value step-up on Impairment of equity investments (184) % film and television costs (1,305) (684) (91) % Restructuring and impairment charges (51) (105) 51 % Cable Networks 17,966 16,486 9 % Broadcasting 10,427 8,341 25 % Cable Networks 6,283 5,425 16 % Broadcasting 2,002 1,351 48 % Equity in the income of investees 737 703 5 % Operating expenses include programming and production costs, which increased 1,857 million from 14,697 million to Selling, general, administrative and other costs increased 153 million from 2,361 million to 2,514 million due to the Income from equity investees increased 34 million, from 703 million to 737 million, driven by higher income from A E Segment operating income increased 21%, or 1,543 million, to 9,022 million due to the consolidation of TFCF and The following table provides supplemental revenue and operating income detail for the Media Networks segment: The following table presents supplemental information for items related to the Media Network segment that are excluded In the current year, amortization of step-up on film and television costs was 695 million and amortization of intangible assets was 610 million. In the prior year, amortization of step-up on film and television costs was 359 million and amortization of intangible assets was 325 million. 28,393 24,827 14 % 9,022 7,479 21 % October 3, Year Ended % Change September 28, September 28, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 63 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Parks, Experiences and Products increase of 3% from higher average ticket prices. Our parks were closed for a significant portion of the fiscal year due to COVID- 19, and those that reopened were operating at significantly reduced capacity. 48% from lower volumes, partially offset by an increase of 4% from higher average guest spending. fewer passenger cruise days driven by the suspension of cruise ship sailings. The decrease in revenues at retail was driven by the closure of our retail stores for a significant portion of the fiscal year as a result of COVID-19 and the prior-year sale of rights to a video game, partially offset by higher online sales. The decrease at merchandise licensing was primarily due to lower minimum guarantee shortfall recognition and a decrease in sales of merchandise based on Toy Story, Avengers and Disney Classics, partially offset by higher sales of Frozen merchandise. Merchandise licensing revenues for the current year were adversely impacted by COVID-19. from Tokyo Disney Resort, which was closed or operating at reduced capacity for a significant portion of the fiscal year. Year Ended % Change (Worse) (in millions) October 3, 2020 Total revenues 16,502 26,225 (37) % Operating expenses (11,485) (14,015) 18 % Selling, general, administrative and other (2,642) (3,133) 16 % Depreciation and amortization (2,437) (2,306) (6) % Equity in the loss of investees (19) (13) (46) % Operating Income (81) 6,758 nm Theme park admissions 4,038 7,540 (46) % Parks & Experiences merchandise, food and beverage 3,441 5,963 (42) % Resorts and vacations 3,402 6,266 (46) % Merchandise licensing and retail 4,185 4,519 (7) % Parks licensing and other 1,436 1,937 (26) % Operating results for the Parks, Experiences and Products segment are as follows: The decrease in theme park admissions revenue was due to a decrease of 49% from lower attendance, partially offset by an Parks & Experiences merchandise, food and beverage revenue was lower compared to the prior year due to a decrease of The decrease in resorts and vacations revenue was due to decreases of 22% from lower occupied room nights and 15% from Merchandise licensing and retail revenue was lower due to decreases of 4% from retail and 3% from merchandise licensing. The decrease in parks licensing and other revenue was primarily due to lower sponsorship revenue and a decrease in royalties September 28, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 64 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Costs and Expenses sales and distribution costs, which decreased 716 million from 2,918 million to 2,202 million, and infrastructure costs, which decreased 47 million from 2,469 million to 2,422 million. The decrease in operating labor was due to furloughs in response to lower volumes and the benefit of government credits for certain employee costs, partially offset by inflation and new guest offerings. Lower cost of goods sold and distribution costs were due to lower volumes. The decrease in infrastructure costs was due to lower operations support costs reflecting reduced volumes, partially offset by the write-down of assets at our retail stores and higher costs for new guest offerings. Other operating expenses, which include costs for such items as supplies, commissions fees and entertainment offerings, decreased 463 million, from 2,454 million to 1,991 million, due to lower volumes, partially offset by higher charges for capital project abandonments. marketing and general and administrative cost reduction initiatives to mitigate the impacts of COVID-19. attractions at our domestic parks and resorts. Segment Operating Income international parks and experiences and, to a lesser extent, our retail and merchandise licensing businesses. Domestic International Total Fiscal 2020 Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2020 Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2020 Fiscal 2019 Increase (decrease) Attendance (47) % % (53) % (7) % (49) % (2) % Per Capita Guest Occupancy 43 % 90 % 35 % 81 % 41 % 88 % Available Room Nights (in Per Room Guest Spending 8 % 7 % (3) % 13 % 7 % 8 % thousands) 11,114 10,030 3,207 3,182 14,321 13,212 Spending 367 353 312 316 356 345 The following table presents supplemental park and hotel statistics: Operating expenses include operating labor, which decreased 1,304 million from 6,174 million to 4,870 million, cost of Selling, general, administrative and other costs decreased 491 million from 3,133 million to 2,642 million due to Depreciation and amortization increased 131 million from 2,306 million to 2,437 million, primarily due to new Segment operating income decreased 6,839 million, to a loss of 81 million due to decreases at our domestic and Per capita guest spending growth rate is stated on a constant currency basis. Per room guest spending is stated at the average foreign exchange rate for the same period in the prior year. Attendance is used to analyze volume trends at our theme parks and is based on the number of unique daily entries, i.e. a person visiting multiple theme parks in a single day is counted only once. Our attendance count includes complimentary entries but excludes entries by children under the age of three. Per capita guest spending is used to analyze guest spending trends and is defined as total revenue from ticket sales and sales of food, beverage and merchandise in our theme parks, divided by total theme park attendance. Occupancy is used to analyze the usage of available capacity at hotels and is defined as the number of room nights occupied by guests as a percentage of available hotel room nights. Available hotel room nights are defined as the total number of room nights that are available at our hotels and at DVC properties located at our theme parks and resorts that are not utilized by DVC members. Available hotel room nights include rooms temporarily taken out of service. Per room guest spending is used to analyze guest spending at our hotels and is defined as total revenue from room rentals and sales of food, beverage and merchandise at our hotels, divided by total occupied hotel room nights. 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 65 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Items Excluded from Segment Operating Income Related to Parks, Experiences and Products are excluded from segment operating income: Studio Entertainment closures as a result of COVID-19, partially offset by the consolidation of TFCF. Significant titles in the current year included Frozen II, Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker and Maleficent: Mistress Of Evil. Significant titles in the prior year included Avengers: Endgame, The Lion King, Captain Marvel, Toy Story 4, Aladdin, Ralph Breaks the Internet, Mary Poppins Returns and Dumbo. (Worse) (in millions) Supplemental revenue detail Supplemental operating income detail (Worse) (in millions) Year Ended % Change (Worse) (in millions) October 3, 2020 Total revenues 9,636 11,127 (13) % Operating expenses (4,619) (5,187) 11 % Selling, general, administrative and other (2,369) (3,119) 24 % Depreciation and amortization (146) (135) (8) % Equity in the loss of investees (1) nm Operating Income 2,501 2,686 (7) % Theatrical distribution 2,134 4,726 (55) % Home entertainment 1,528 1,734 (12) % TV SVOD distribution and other 5,974 4,667 28 % Restructuring and impairment charges (265) (13) (100) % Amortization of TFCF intangible assets (8) (4) (100) % Parks & Experiences Consumer Products 4,256 4,633 (8) % Parks & Experiences Consumer Products 1,615 1,839 (12) % The following table presents supplemental revenue and operating income detail for the Parks, Experiences and Products The following table presents supplemental information for items related to the Parks, Experiences and Products segment that Operating results for the Studio Entertainment segment are as follows: The decrease in theatrical distribution revenue was due to fewer significant releases, which included the impact of theater Domestic 10,226 17,369 (41) % International 2,020 4,223 (52) % Domestic (623) 4,412 nm International (1,073) 507 nm 16,502 26,225 (37) % (81) 6,758 nm October 3, October 3, Year Ended % Change Year Ended % Change September 28, September 28, September 28, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 66 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS and 4% from lower average net effective pricing, partially offset by an increase of 14% from the consolidation of TFCF. New release titles in the current year included Frozen II, Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker, The Lion King and Toy Story 4, whereas the prior year included Avengers: Endgame, Incredibles 2, Captain Marvel, Ant-Man And The Wasp, Ralph Breaks The Internet, Avengers: Infinity War, Bohemian Rhapsody and Aladdin. The decrease in average net effective pricing was primarily due to a lower mix of new release titles. consolidation of TFCF, partially offset by a decrease of 8% from stage plays reflecting the impact of theater closures in response to COVID-19. The increase in TV SVOD distribution was due to sales of content to Disney , partially offset by lower sales to third parties in the pay and free television windows. Costs and Expenses 3,762 million to 3,643 million, primarily due to lower theatrical distribution and home entertainment revenue, partially offset by higher TV SVOD distribution revenue and the consolidation of TFCF. Operating expenses also include cost of goods sold and distribution costs, which decreased 449 million, from 1,425 million to 976 million. Lower cost of goods sold and distribution costs were primarily due to decreases in theatrical and stage play distribution costs due to fewer theatrical releases and stage play performances, partially offset by the consolidation of TFCF. theatrical and home entertainment marketing costs, partially offset by the consolidation of TFCF. Segment Operating Income partially offset by an increase in TV SVOD distribution results. Items Excluded from Segment Operating Income Related to Studio Entertainment excluded from segment operating income: (Worse) (in millions) Amortization of TFCF intangible assets and fair value step-up on Restructuring and impairment charges (114) (219) 48 % film and television costs (291) (206) (41) % Lower home entertainment revenue was due to decreases of 21% from lower unit sales of both new releases and catalog titles Higher TV SVOD distribution and other revenue was due to increases of 21% from TV SVOD distribution and 14% from the Operating expenses include amortization of production, participation and residual costs, which decreased 119 million, from Selling, general, administrative and other costs decreased 750 million from 3,119 million to 2,369 million due to lower The increase in depreciation and amortization was due to the consolidation of TFCF. Segment operating income decreased 7%, or 185 million to 2,501 million due to lower theatrical and stage play results, The following table presents supplemental information for items related to the Studio Entertainment segment that are In the current year, amortization of step-up on film and television costs was 184 million and amortization of intangible assets was 107 million. In the prior year, amortization of step-up on film and television costs was 179 million and amortization of intangible assets was 27 million. October 3, Year Ended % Change September 28, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 67 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Direct-to-Consumer & International subscriber growth at Hulu, and to a lesser extent, increased subscribers at ESPN . 9% from fewer subscribers driven by the expiration of certain carriage agreements and channel closures, both primarily in Europe, and 3% from an unfavorable foreign exchange impact. by a decrease of 4% from our International Channels. Higher addressable advertising sales were due to the consolidation of Hulu and, to a lesser extent, TFCF and higher impressions, partially offset by lower rates. The increase in impressions was due to growth at Hulu, partially offset by the timing of cricket programming and the impact of lower impressions at our other digital platforms. The decrease in rates was primarily due to lower rates at Hulu. The decrease in advertising revenues at our International Channels was driven by lower impressions, partially offset by the consolidation of TFCF. The decrease in impressions reflected the impact of COVID-19, including a shift in the timing of Indian Premier League (IPL) cricket matches to fiscal 2021, and the comparison to the prior-year broadcast of International Cricket Council World Cup (ICC WC) matches. The ICC WC is held every four years. fees, the consolidation of TFCF and, to a lesser extent, Hulu and Disney Premier Access revenues from Mulan. These increases were partially offset by the comparison to the sub-licensing of ICC WC rights to third-party broadcasters in the prior year and lower revenue from streaming technology services. Year Ended % Change (Worse) (in millions) October 3, 2020 Total revenues 16,967 9,386 81 % Operating expenses (15,072) (8,540) (76) % Selling, general, administrative and other (4,201) (2,116) (99) % Depreciation and amortization (460) (325) (42) % Equity in the loss of investees (40) (240) 83 % Operating Loss (2,806) (1,835) (53) % Disney 73.7 nm ESPN 10.3 3.5 100 % SVOD Only 32.5 25.6 27 % Live TV SVOD 4.1 2.9 41 % Subscription fees 7,645 2,115 100 % Affiliate fees 3,673 2,768 33 % Advertising 4,477 3,542 26 % TV SVOD distribution and other 1,172 961 22 % Operating results for the Direct-to-Consumer & International segment are as follows: The increase in subscription fees was due to the launch of Disney starting in November 2019, the consolidation of Hulu, The increase in affiliate fees was due to an increase of 44% from the consolidation of TFCF, partially offset by decreases of The increase in advertising revenues was due to an increase of 30% from higher addressable advertising sales, partially offset Growth in TV SVOD distribution and other revenue was due to higher Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) pay-per-view The following table presents the number of paid subscribers (in millions) for Disney , ESPN and Hulu as of: Total Hulu 36.6 28.5 28 % October 3, September 28, September 28, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 68 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS bundled subscription package offering of Disney , ESPN and Hulu beginning in November 2019 and lower per-subscriber advertising revenue, partially offset by an increase in retail pricing in August 2020. The bundled offering has a lower retail price than the aggregate standalone retail prices of the individual services. by a decrease in retail pricing, lower per-subscriber advertising revenue and the introduction of the bundled offering, partially offset by a lower mix of promotional and wholesale subscribers. The average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for the Hulu Live TV SVOD service increased from 55.98 to 67.24 due to an increase in retail pricing in December 2019 and higher per- subscriber Live TV advertising and premium add-on revenue, partially offset by the introduction of the bundled offering. Costs and Expenses million, and a 1,151 million increase in other operating expenses, from 1,615 million to 2,766 million. Programming and production costs include the costs of content provided by other segments. The increase in programming and production costs was due to the consolidation of Hulu and TFCF, the launch of Disney and higher costs at Hulu, partially offset by lower costs for sports programming. The increase in costs at Hulu was driven by higher subscriber-based fees for programming on the Live TV service. Lower costs for sports programming were primarily due to the comparison to the ICC WC in the prior year and the shift in the timing of IPL, partially offset by higher costs for UFC programming rights. Other operating expenses, which include technical support and distribution costs, increased due to the launch of Disney and the consolidation of Hulu and TFCF. Disney 4.80 nm ESPN 4.35 5.12 (15) % SVOD Only 12.24 13.09 (6) % Live TV SVOD 67.24 55.98 20 % The following table presents the average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for the fiscal year ended: The average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for ESPN decreased from 5.12 to 4.35 due to the introduction of a The average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for the Hulu SVOD Only service decreased from 13.09 to 12.24 driven Operating expenses include a 5,381 million increase in programming and production costs, from 6,925 million to 12,306 A subscriber for which we recognized subscription revenue. A subscriber ceases to be a paid subscriber as of their effective cancellation date or as a result of a failed payment method. A subscription bundle is considered a paid subscriber for each service included in the bundle. Subscribers include those who receive the service through wholesale arrangements in which we receive a fee for the distribution of Disney to each subscriber to an existing content distribution tier. When we aggregate the total number of paid subscribers across our DTC services, whether acquired individually, through a wholesale arrangement or via the bundle, we refer to them as paid subscriptions. Revenue per paid subscriber is calculated based upon the average of the monthly average paid subscribers for each month in the period. The monthly average paid subscribers is calculated as the sum of the beginning of the month and end of the month paid subscriber count, divided by two. Disney average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for the fiscal year ended October 3, 2020 is calculated using a daily average of paid subscribers for the period beginning at launch and ending on the last day of the period. The average revenue per subscriber is net of discounts provided to both wholesale and bundled subscribers, annual subscriptions and other limited term promotional offers. The bundled discount is allocated to each service based on the relative retail price of each service on a standalone basis. In general, wholesale arrangements have a lower average monthly revenue per paid subscriber than subscribers that we acquire directly or through third party platforms like Apple. Disney Hotstar launched on April 3, 2020 in India (as a conversion of the preexisting Hotstar service) and on September 5, 2020 in Indonesia, and is included in the number of paid subscribers and average monthly revenue per paid subscriber. The average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for Disney Hotstar in India and Indonesia is significantly lower than the average monthly revenue per paid subscriber in North America and Europe. Hulu s average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for the period September 30, 2018 to March 19, 2019 is not reflected in the Company s prior-year revenues, but is included in the average monthly revenue per paid subscriber reported in the table. Includes advertising revenue (including amounts generated during free trial subscription periods). Excludes Disney Premier Access revenue. Excludes Pay-Per-View revenue. October 3, September 28, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 69 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 70 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS launch of Disney and the consolidation of Hulu and TFCF. and TFCF and the launch of Disney . Equity in the Loss of Investees consolidation of Hulu. In the current year, Hulu s results are reported in revenues and expenses. In the prior year, prior to March 20, 2019, the Company recognized its ownership share of Hulu s results in equity in the loss of investees. Segment Operating Loss the consolidation of Hulu and a decrease at our International Channels. These decreases were partially offset by the consolidation of TFCF and improved results at ESPN and Hulu. International segment: Items Excluded from Segment Operating Loss Related to Direct-to-Consumer & International that are excluded from segment operating loss: (Worse) (in millions) Amortization of TFCF and Hulu intangible assets and fair value Hulu Gain 4,822 (100) % Restructuring and impairment charges (5,229) (456) (100) % Impairment of equity investments (354) 100 % Year Ended % Change (in millions) Supplemental revenue detail Supplemental operating income (loss) detail step-up on film and television costs (1,242) (701) (77) % Direct-to-Consumer services 10,444 3,347 100 % International Channels 5,413 4,727 15 % Other 1,110 1,312 (15) % Direct-to-Consumer services (3,294) (1,849) (78) % International Channels 872 649 34 % Other (344) (395) 13 % Equity in the loss of investees (40) (240) 83 % Selling, general, administrative and other costs increased 2,085 million, from 2,116 million to 4,201 million, due to the Depreciation and amortization increased 135 million, from 325 million to 460 million, due to the consolidation of Hulu Loss from equity investees in the prior year of 240 million improved by 200 million to a loss of 40 million, due to the Segment operating loss increased from 1,835 million to 2,806 million, due to costs associated with the launch of Disney , The following table presents supplemental revenue and operating income (loss) detail for the Direct-to-Consumer & The following table presents supplemental information for items related to the Direct-to-Consumer & International segment Primarily addressable ad sales related to domestic Media Networks branded properties (addressable ad sales related to our Direct-to-Consumer services, principally Hulu, are reflected in Direct-to-Consumer services ) In the current year, amortization of intangible assets was 1,196 million, amortization of intangible assets related to TFCF equity investees was 26 million and amortization of step-up on film and television costs was 20 million. In the prior year, amortization of intangible assets was 687 million and amortization of intangible assets related to TFCF equity investees was 15 million. The current year includes goodwill and intangible asset impairments at our International Channels business ( 4,953 million). 16,967 9,386 81 % (2,806) (1,835) (53) % October 3, October 3, Year Ended % Change September 28, September 28, Better (Worse) 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 71 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Eliminations Entertainment content to Disney . The increase in Media Networks sales to Hulu was due to higher sales of original titles, driven by Little Fires Everywhere and Mrs. America, and library titles. Higher Media Networks sales also included an increase in affiliate fees received from Hulu for networks in the Hulu Live TV SVOD service. Media Networks sales to Disney were due to sales of library series, including The Simpsons and Disney Channel titles, and original series. Studio Entertainment content sold to Disney included original titles Noelle, Lady and the Tramp, and Artemis Fowl and theatrically released titles Frozen II, The Lion King, Toy Story 4 and Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker. Operating Income Studio Entertainment content to Disney . CORPORATE AND UNALLOCATED SHARED EXPENSES costs, partially offset by the absence of a benefit from amortization of a deferred gain on a sale leaseback due to the adoption of new lease accounting guidance. The decrease in costs related to TFCF was due to lower acquisition and integration costs, partially offset by the consolidation of TFCF. RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES connection with the acquisition of TFCF and from a workforce reduction plan, primarily at the Parks, Experiences and Products segment. (in millions) 2020 2019 Corporate and unallocated shared expenses (817) (987) 17% (in millions) Total (6,110) (1,958) (100) % Operating income Total (528) (241) (100) % Studio Entertainment: Media Networks: Studio Entertainment: Media Networks: Content transactions with Media Networks (188) (106) (77) % Content transactions with Direct-to-Consumer & International (2,108) (272) (100) % Content transactions with Direct-to-Consumer & International (3,814) (1,580) (100) % Content transactions with Media Networks 3 (19) nm Content transactions with Direct-to-Consumer & International (158) (80) (98) % Content transactions with Direct-to-Consumer & International (373) (142) (100) % Intersegment content transactions are as follows: The increase in revenue eliminations was due to sales of Media Networks content to Hulu and Disney and sales of Studio The increase in the impact from eliminations was due to sales of Media Networks content to Hulu and Disney and sales of Corporate and unallocated shared expenses are as follows: The decrease in corporate and unallocated shared expenses was due to lower costs related to TFCF and lower compensation See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company s restructuring activities in October 3, Year Ended % Change September 28, Better (Worse) Better (Worse) 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 72 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Operating Activities Continuing operations driven by the payment of approximately 7.6 billion of tax obligations that arose from the spin-off of Fox Corporation in connection with the TFCF acquisition and the sale of the RSNs acquired with TFCF in the prior year, and higher current year operating cash flow at Media Networks. These increases were partially offset by lower operating cash flow at Parks, Experiences and Products and Direct-to-Consumer & International. The increase at Media Networks was due to higher operating cash receipts driven by an increase in revenue. Lower operating cash flows at Parks, Experiences and Products were due to lower cash receipts driven by decreased revenues, partially offset by lower cash disbursements. Lower cash disbursements were due to lower operating expenses. The decrease at Direct-to-Consumer & International was due to higher film and television spending and an increase in operating cash disbursements due to higher operating expenses, partially offset by higher operating cash receipts driven by revenues from the consolidation of TFCF and Hulu and the launch of Disney . (in millions) 2020 2019 Cash provided by operations - continuing operations 7,616 5,984 Cash used in investing activities - continuing operations (3,850) (15,096) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities - continuing operations 8,480 (464) Cash provided by operations - discontinued operations 2 622 Cash provided by investing activities - discontinued operations 213 10,978 Cash used in financing activities - discontinued operations (626) Impact of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 38 (98) Change in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 12,499 1,300 (in millions) 2020 2019 Media Networks Parks, Experiences and Products Studio Entertainment 87 74 Direct-to-Consumer & International 348 214 Corporate 174 167 Total depreciation expense 3,140 2,844 (in millions) 2020 2019 Media Networks 4 Parks, Experiences and Products 109 108 Studio Entertainment 59 61 Direct-to-Consumer & International 112 111 TFCF and Hulu 1,921 1,043 Total amortization of intangible assets 2,205 1,323 Cable Networks 120 107 Broadcasting 83 84 Domestic 1,634 1,474 International 694 724 Total Media Networks 203 191 Total Parks, Experiences and Products 2,328 2,198 The change in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash is as follows: Cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2020 increased 27% or 1.6 billion to 7.6 billion, due to lower tax payments, Depreciation expense is as follows: Amortization of intangible assets is as follows: 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 73 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Produced and licensed content costs license and produce film and television programming. Film and television production costs include all internally produced content such as live-action and animated films, animated direct-to-video programming, television series, television specials, theatrical stage plays or other similar product. Programming costs include film or television product licensed for a specific period from third parties for airing on the Company s broadcast and cable networks, television stations and DTC services. Programming assets are generally recorded when the programming becomes available to us with a corresponding increase in programming liabilities. Accordingly, we analyze our programming assets net of the related liability. Discontinued operations (in millions) 2020 2019 Beginning balances: Amortization: Change in film and television production and Film and television production costs from the TFCF acquisition and consolidation of Other non-cash activity 145 11 Ending balances: Production and programming assets 27,407 9,202 Programming liabilities (4,061) (1,178) Television program licenses and rights 12,077 10,517 Film and television production 8,104 7,104 Television program licenses and rights (11,241) (10,608) Film and television production (9,337) (6,471) Production and programming assets 27,193 27,407 Programming liabilities (4,099) (4,061) programming costs (397) 542 Hulu, net of programming liabilities assumed 14,769 The Company s Studio Entertainment, Media Networks and Direct-to-Consumer & International segments incur costs to The Company s film and television production and programming activity for fiscal 2020 and 2019 are as follows: Cash provided by operating activities for discontinued operations in fiscal 2019 reflected the operations of the RSNs. 23,094 23,346 (20,578) (17,079) 23,346 8,024 20,181 17,621 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 74 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Investing Activities Continuing operations activity. The Company s investments in parks, resorts and other property for fiscal 2020 and 2019 are as follows: (in millions) 2020 2019 upgrading broadcast centers, production facilities and television station facilities. new attractions, cruise ships, capital improvements and systems infrastructure. The decrease in capital expenditures at our domestic parks and resorts in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to lower spend on Star Wars: Galaxy s Edge at both the Walt Disney World and Disneyland resorts. Capital spending in fiscal 2020 also reflected the suspension of certain capital projects as a result of COVID-19. fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 was due to spending on technology to support our streaming services. equipment. The increase in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 was due to higher spending on facilities. capital expenditures of 4.0 billion due to increased spending on facilities at Corporate and spending on technology at Direct-to- Consumer & International, partially offset by lower investments at our domestic parks and resorts, in part reflecting a reduction in spending in response to COVID-19. Other Investing Activities of cash acquired in the transaction (See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Cash provided by other investing activities of 172 million in fiscal 2020 reflects the proceeds from the sale of an investment while cash used in other investing activities of 319 million in fiscal 2019 reflects contributions of 347 million to Hulu prior to the consolidation of Hulu. Discontinued operations Financing Activities Continuing operations billion in fiscal 2019. Cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2020 was due to borrowings, partially offset by dividend payments and settlement of acquisition related obligations. The increase in cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 was from higher cash proceeds from net borrowings ( 11.2 billion in fiscal 2020 compared to 3.7 billion in fiscal 2019). Media Networks Parks, Experiences and Products Studio Entertainment 77 88 Direct-to-Consumer & International 594 258 Corporate 335 210 Cable Networks 61 93 Broadcasting 51 81 Domestic 2,145 3,294 International 759 852 Investing activities consist principally of investments in parks, resorts and other property and acquisition and divestiture Capital expenditures at Media Networks primarily reflect investments in facilities and equipment for expanding and Capital expenditures for the Parks, Experiences and Products segment are principally for theme park and resort expansion, Capital expenditures at Direct-to-Consumer & International primarily reflect investments in technology. The increase in Capital expenditures at Corporate primarily reflect investments in facilities, information technology infrastructure and The Company currently expects its fiscal 2021 capital expenditures will be approximately 0.6 billion higher than fiscal 2020 The fiscal 2019 spending of 9.9 billion on acquisitions reflects 35.7 billion of cash paid to acquire TFCF less 25.7 billion Cash provided by investing activities from discontinued operations in fiscal 2019 reflects the sale of the RSNs. Cash provided by financing activities was 8.5 billion in fiscal 2020 compared to cash used in financing activities of 0.5 4,022 4,876 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 75 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Discontinued operations of the RSNs. Borrowings activities and other may use commercial paper borrowings up to the amount of its unused 12.25 billion bank facilities maturing in March 2021, March 2023 and March 2025, unused availability under the 5.0 billion bank facility maturing in April 2021, incremental term debt issuances and operating cash flows, to retire or refinance other borrowings before or as they come due. The Company did not repurchase any of its shares in fiscal 2020 or 2019. including COVID-19, which has affected our segment operations in a number of ways, and as a result, had an adverse impact on the Company s operating cash flows. We have taken a number of measures to mitigate the impact on the Company s financial position. We have significantly increased the Company s cash balances through the issuance of senior notes in March and May 2020. In addition, we entered into an additional 5.0 billion credit facility in April 2020, bringing the total capacity of our bank facilities to 17.25 billion. See Significant Developments for the impact COVID-19 had on our operations and mitigating measures. balances, other liquid assets, operating cash flows, access to debt and equity capital markets and borrowing capacity under current bank facilities, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements and upcoming debt maturities as well as future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses and development of new projects, although certain of these activities have been scaled back or suspended in light of COVID-19. In addition to measures the Company has already taken in response to COVID-19, there are a number of additional mitigating actions the Company may take in the future such as not declaring dividends (which the Board of Directors did not declare with respect to fiscal 2020 operations) reducing, or not making certain payments, such as some contributions to our pension and postretirement medical plans raising additional financing further suspending capital spending reducing film and television content investments or implementing additional furloughs or reductions in force. rating agencies, which are based, in significant part, on the Company s performance as measured by certain credit metrics such as leverage and interest coverage ratios. As of October 3, 2020, Moody s Investors Service s long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A2 and P-1, respectively, Standard and Poor s long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A- and A-2, respectively, and Fitch s long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A- and F2, respectively. In addition, Fitch has placed the Company s long-term debt rating on Negative Outlook. On November 18, 2020, Standard and Poor s lowered the Company s long-term rating to BBB and placed the Company s long-term ratings on Negative Outlook. The Company s bank facilities contain only one financial covenant, relating to interest coverage, which the Company met on October 3, 2020, by a significant margin. The Company s bank facilities also specifically exclude certain entities, including the Asia Theme Parks, from any representations, covenants or events of default. (in millions) Commercial paper with original maturities less than three months 1,934 (1,961) 27 Commercial paper with original maturities greater than three months 3,408 11,500 (12,893) 8 2,023 U.S. dollar denominated notes 39,424 16,968 (3,405) (251) 52,736 Asia Theme Parks borrowings 1,114 175 (88) 102 1,303 Foreign currency denominated debt and other 1,106 977 (40) 523 2,566 Cash used in financing activities by discontinued operations in fiscal 2019 was due to redemption of noncontrolling interests During the year ended October 3, 2020, the Company s borrowing activity was as follows: See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company s bank facilities. The Company See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the Company s dividends in fiscal 2020 and 2019. The Company s operating cash flow and access to the capital markets can be impacted by factors outside of its control, Despite the impact of COVID-19, we believe that the Company s financial condition remains strong and that its cash The Company s borrowing costs can also be impacted by short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by nationally recognized The other activity is primarily due to the amortization of purchase price adjustments on debt assumed in the TFCF acquisition and debt issuance fees. Borrowings and reductions of borrowings are reported net. The other activity is due to market value adjustments for debt with qualifying hedges. 46,986 29,620 (18,387) 409 58,628 September 28, 2019 Borrowings Payments Activity October 3, 2020 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 76 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 77 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS our operating cash flows, are subject to substantial uncertainty. These impacts to our operating cash flows may require us to rely more heavily on external funding sources, such as debt and other types of financing. SUPPLEMENTAL GUARANTOR FINANCIAL INFORMATION TWDC Enterprises 18 Corp. (formerly known as The Walt Disney Company) ( Legacy Disney ). Legacy Disney and TWDC are collectively referred to as Obligor Group , and individually, as a Guarantor . Concurrent with the close of the TFCF acquisition, 16.8 billion of TFCF s assumed public debt (which then constituted 96% of such debt) was exchanged for senior notes of TWDC (the exchange notes ) issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 20, 2019, between TWDC, Legacy Disney, as guarantor, and Citibank, N.A., as trustee (the TWDC Indenture ) and guaranteed by Legacy Disney. On November 26, 2019, 14.0 billion of the outstanding exchange notes were exchanged for new senior notes of TWDC registered under the Securities Act, issued pursuant to the TWDC Indenture and guaranteed by Legacy Disney. In addition, contemporaneously with the closing of the March 20, 2019 exchange offer, TWDC entered into a guarantee of the registered debt securities issued by Legacy Disney under the Indenture dated as of September 24, 2001 between Legacy Disney and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the 2001 Trustee ) (as amended by the first supplemental indenture among Legacy Disney, as issuer, TWDC, as guarantor, and the 2001 Trustee, as trustee). subsidiaries are referred to as the non-Guarantors ). The par value and carrying value of total outstanding and guaranteed registered debt securities of the Obligor Group at October 3, 2020 was as follows: guaranteed registered debt securities. The guarantees may be released and discharged upon (i) as a general matter, the indebtedness for borrowed money of the consolidated subsidiaries of TWDC in aggregate constituting no more than 10% of all consolidated indebtedness for borrowed money of TWDC and its subsidiaries (subject to certain exclusions), (ii) upon the sale, transfer or disposition of all or substantially all of the equity interests or all or substantially all, or substantially as an entirety, the assets of Legacy Disney to a third party, and (iii) other customary events constituting a discharge of a guarantor s obligations. In addition, in the case of Legacy Disney s guarantee of registered debt securities issued by TWDC, Legacy Disney may be released and discharged from its guarantee at any time Legacy Disney is not a borrower, issuer or guarantor under certain material bank facilities or any debt securities. and ability to service its debt, including the public debt, are dependent upon the earnings of the Company s subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to the Obligor Group, whether by dividends, loans or otherwise. Holders of the guaranteed registered debt securities have a direct claim only against the Obligor Group. intercompany transactions and balances between TWDC and Legacy Disney and (ii) equity in the earnings from and investments in any subsidiary that is a non-Guarantor. This summarized financial information has been prepared and presented pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X Rule 13-01, Financial Disclosures about Guarantors and Issuers of Guaranteed Securities and is not intended to present the financial position or results of operations of the Obligor Group in accordance with U.S. GAAP. (in millions) Par Value Carrying Value Par Value Carrying Value Registered debt with unconditional guarantee 38,646 41,077 12,541 12,751 Results of operations (in millions) Revenues Costs and expenses Net income (loss) from continuing operations (1,158) Net income (loss) (1,158) Net income (loss) attributable to TWDC shareholders (1,158) The duration of business closures and other impacts related to COVID-19, and the corresponding duration of the impacts to On March 20, 2019, as part of the acquisition of TFCF, The Walt Disney Company ( TWDC ) became the ultimate parent of Other subsidiaries of the Company do not guarantee the registered debt securities of either TWDC or Legacy Disney (such The guarantees by TWDC and Legacy Disney are full and unconditional and cover all payment obligations arising under the Operations are conducted almost entirely through the Company s subsidiaries. Accordingly, the Obligor Group s cash flow Set forth below are summarized financial information for the Obligor Group on a combined basis after elimination of (i) TWDC Legacy Disney Fiscal Year Ended October 3, 2020 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 78 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS, COMMITMENTS AND OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Other items, such as certain purchase commitments and other executory contracts, are not recognized as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements but are required to be disclosed in the footnotes to the financial statements. For example, the Company is contractually committed to acquire broadcast programming and make certain minimum lease payments for the use of property under operating lease agreements. October 3, 2020 and the future periods in which such obligations are expected to be settled in cash. In addition, the table reflects the timing of principal and interest payments on outstanding borrowings based on their contractual maturities. Additional details regarding these obligations are provided in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as referenced in the table: Consolidated Financial Statements. Contingent Commitments and Contractual Guarantees commitments and contractual guarantees. Legal and Tax Matters legal matters. Balance Sheet (in millions) October 3, 2020 September 28, 2019 Current assets 12,899 1,145 Noncurrent assets 2,076 1,398 Current liabilities 6,155 9,405 Noncurrent liabilities (excluding intercompany to non-Guarantors) 57,809 41,728 Intercompany payables to non-Guarantors 146,748 143,574 Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Borrowings (Note 9) 87,273 7,718 8,743 10,064 60,748 Operating lease commitments (Note 16) 4,211 840 1,129 677 1,565 Finance lease obligations (Note 16) 720 56 107 75 482 Total programming commitments 46,378 12,043 14,662 10,030 9,643 Other 12,390 3,051 3,279 2,323 3,737 Total contractual obligations 150,972 23,708 27,920 23,169 76,175 Sports programming commitments (Note 15) 40,578 9,492 12,649 9,271 9,166 Broadcast programming commitments (Note 15) 5,800 2,551 2,013 759 477 The Company has various contractual obligations, which are recorded as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations and commitments on an undiscounted basis at The Company also has obligations with respect to its pension and postretirement medical benefit plans. See Note 11 to the As disclosed in Notes 10 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has exposure for certain tax and See Notes 4, 7 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company s contingent Excludes market value adjustments, which increased borrowings by 509 million. Includes interest payments based on contractual terms for fixed rate debt and on current interest rates for variable rate debt. In 2023, the Company has the ability to call a debt instrument prior to its scheduled maturity, which if exercised by the Company would reduce future interest payments by 1.0 billion. Primarily contracts for the construction of three new cruise ships, creative talent and employment agreements and unrecognized tax benefits. Creative talent and employment agreements include obligations to actors, producers, sports, television and radio personalities and executives. Contractual commitments include the following: Liabilities recorded on the balance sheet 65,524 Commitments not recorded on the balance sheet 85,448 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 79 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES of operations, require significant judgments and estimates on the part of management. For a summary of our significant accounting policies, including the accounting policies discussed below, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Produced and Acquired Licensed Content Costs (FASB) guidance that updates the accounting for film and television content costs. Under that new guidance, we amortize and test for impairment capitalized film and television production costs based on whether the content is predominantly monetized individually or as a group. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. estimated remaining total revenues (Ultimate Revenues). Revenues is theatrical performance. Revenues derived from other markets subsequent to the theatrical release are generally highly correlated with theatrical performance. Theatrical performance varies primarily based upon the public interest and demand for a particular film, the popularity of competing films at the time of release and the level of marketing effort. Upon a film s release and determination of the theatrical performance, the Company s estimates of revenues from succeeding windows, including intersegment content transactions, and markets are revised based on historical relationships and an analysis of current market trends. estimates of Ultimate Revenues are program ratings of the content on our licensees platforms. Program ratings, which are an indication of market acceptance, directly affect the program s ability to generate advertising and subscriber revenues and are correlated with the license fees we can charge for the content in subsequent windows and for subsequent seasons. accounted for as if the change occurred at the beginning of the current fiscal year. If our estimate of Ultimate Revenues decreases, amortization of costs may be accelerated or result in an impairment. Conversely, if our estimate of Ultimate Revenues increases, cost amortization may be slowed. typically resulting in an accelerated or straight-line amortization pattern. The determination of projected usage requires judgement and is reviewed periodically for changes. If projected usage changes we may need to accelerate or slow the recognition of amortization expense. advertising revenue and an allocation of affiliate revenue (relative value). If the annual contractual payments related to each season approximate each season s estimated relative value, we expense the related contractual payments during the applicable season. If estimated relative values by year were to change significantly, amortization of our sports rights costs may be accelerated or slowed. Revenue Recognition each business. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for our revenue recognition policies. Pension and Postretirement Medical Plan Actuarial Assumptions actuarial assumptions. Two critical assumptions, the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets, are important elements of expense and or liability measurement, which we evaluate annually. Other assumptions include the healthcare cost trend rate and employee demographic factors such as retirement patterns, mortality, turnover and rate of compensation increase. A lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases pension and postretirement medical expense. The guideline for setting this rate is a high-quality long-term corporate bond rate. We reduced our discount rate to 2.82% at the end of fiscal 2020 from 3.22% at the end of fiscal 2019 to reflect market interest rate conditions at our fiscal 2020 year-end measurement date. The Company s discount rate was determined by considering yield curves constructed of a large population of high-quality corporate bonds and reflects the matching of the plans liability cash flows to the yield curves. A one percentage point decrease in the assumed discount rate would increase total benefit expense for fiscal 2021 by approximately 351 million and would increase the projected benefit obligation at October 3, 2020 by approximately 4.0 billion. A one We believe that the application of the following accounting policies, which are important to our financial position and results At the beginning of fiscal 2020, the Company adopted on a prospective basis, new Financial Accounting Standards Board Production costs that are classified as individual are amortized based upon the ratio of the current period s revenues to the With respect to produced films intended for theatrical release, the most sensitive factor affecting our estimate of Ultimate With respect to capitalized television production costs that are classified as individual, the most sensitive factors affecting Ultimate Revenues are reassessed each reporting period and the impact of any changes on amortization of production cost is Produced content costs that are part of a group and acquired licensed content costs are amortized based on projected usage The amortization of multi-year sports rights is based on our projections of revenues over the contract period, which include The Company has revenue recognition policies for its various operating segments that are appropriate to the circumstances of The Company s pension and postretirement medical benefit obligations and related costs are calculated using a number of The discount rate enables us to state expected future cash payments for benefits as a present value on the measurement date. 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 80 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 81 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS percentage point increase in the assumed discount rate would decrease total benefit expense and the projected benefit obligation by approximately 303 million and 3.4 billion, respectively. as well as historical and expected returns on each plan asset class. Our expected return on plan assets is 7.00%. A lower expected rate of return on plan assets will increase pension and postretirement medical expense. A one percentage point change in the long- term asset return assumption would impact fiscal 2021 annual expense by approximately 164 million. Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets, Long-Lived Assets and Investments if current events or circumstances require, on an interim basis. To test goodwill for impairment, the Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. If it is, a quantitative assessment is required. Alternatively, the Company may bypass the qualitative assessment and perform a quantitative impairment test. conditions, and changes in projected future cash flows of the reporting unit. the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, an impairment of goodwill is recognized for the excess up to the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. and liabilities to reporting units including goodwill, and the determination of fair value of the reporting units. To determine the fair value of our reporting units, we apply what we believe to be the most appropriate valuation methodology for each of our reporting units. We generally use a present value technique (discounted cash flows) corroborated by market multiples when available and as appropriate. The projected cash flows of our reporting units reflect intersegment revenues and expenses for the sale and use of intellectual property. The discounted cash flow analyses are sensitive to our estimates of future revenue growth and margins for these businesses as well as the discount rates used to calculate the present value of future cash flows. In times of adverse economic conditions in the global economy, the Company s long-term cash flow projections are subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than usual. determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of each of its indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeds its fair value. If it is, a quantitative assessment is required. Alternatively, the Company may bypass the qualitative assessment and perform a quantitative impairment test. projected future cash flows. carrying amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess. Fair values of indefinite-lived intangible assets are determined based on discounted cash flows or appraised values, as appropriate. circumstances (triggering events) indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Once a triggering event has occurred, the impairment test employed is based on whether the Company s intent is to hold the asset for continued use or to hold the asset for sale. The impairment test for assets held for use requires a comparison of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated over the useful life of an asset group to the carrying amount of the asset group. An asset group is generally established by identifying the lowest level of cash flows generated by a group of assets that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets. If the carrying amount of an asset group exceeds the estimated undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment is measured as the difference between the fair value of the asset group and the carrying amount of the asset group. For assets held for sale, to the extent the carrying amount is greater than the asset s fair value less costs to sell, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference. Determining whether a long-lived asset is impaired requires various estimates and assumptions, including whether a triggering event has occurred, the identification of asset groups, estimates of future cash flows and the discount rate used to determine fair values. To determine the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets, we consider the current and expected asset allocation, The Company is required to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and Goodwill is allocated to various reporting units, which are an operating segment or one level below the operating segment. The qualitative assessment requires the consideration of factors such as recent market transactions, macroeconomic The quantitative assessment compares the fair value of each goodwill reporting unit to its carrying amount, and to the extent In fiscal 2020, the Company performed a qualitative assessment of goodwill for impairment. The impairment test for goodwill requires judgment related to the identification of reporting units, the assignment of assets To test its other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, the Company first performs a qualitative assessment to The qualitative assessment requires consideration of recent market transactions, macroeconomic conditions, and changes in The quantitative assessment compares the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset to its carrying amount. If the The Company tests long-lived assets, including amortizable intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 82 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS we consider forecasted financial performance of the investee companies, as well as volatility inherit in the external markets for these investments. If these forecasts are not met, impairment charges may be recorded. and goodwill ( 3.1 billion) at the International Channels business as discussed below under Impacts of COVID-19 on Accounting Policies and Estimates. recorded in Equity in the income (loss) of investees in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Allowance for Credit Losses historical bad debt experience in conjunction with our assessment of the financial condition of individual companies with which we do business. In times of domestic or global economic turmoil, including COVID-19, our estimates and judgments with respect to the collectability of our receivables are subject to greater uncertainty than in more stable periods. If our estimate of uncollectible accounts is too low, costs and expenses may increase in future periods, and if it is too high, costs and expenses may decrease in future periods. Contingencies and Litigation losses for the resolution of these proceedings. These estimates are based upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies and have been developed in consultation with outside counsel as appropriate. From time to time, we are also involved in other contingent matters for which we accrue estimates for a probable and estimable loss. It is possible, however, that future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies related to legal proceedings or our assumptions regarding other contingent matters. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information on litigation exposure. Income Tax audits result in proposed assessments. Our determinations regarding the recognition of income tax benefits are made in consultation with outside tax and legal counsel, where appropriate, and are based upon the technical merits of our tax positions in consideration of applicable tax statutes and related interpretations and precedents and upon the expected outcome of proceedings (or negotiations) with taxing and legal authorities. The tax benefits ultimately realized by the Company may differ from those recognized in our future financial statements based on a number of factors, including the Company s decision to settle rather than litigate a matter, relevant legal precedent related to similar matters and the Company s success in supporting its filing positions with taxing authorities. Impacts of COVID-19 on Accounting Policies and Estimates normal in making the judgments and estimates needed to apply our significant accounting policies. As COVID-19 continues to develop, we may make changes to these estimates and judgments over time, which could result in meaningful impacts to our financial statements in future periods. A more detailed discussion of the impact of COVID-19 on the Accounting Policies and Estimates follows. Produced and Acquired Licensed Content Costs canceled. The duration of the delay, market conditions when we release the content, or a change in our release strategy (e.g. bypassing certain distribution windows) could have an impact on Ultimate Revenues, which may accelerate amortization or result in an impairment of capitalized film and television production costs. revenues derived from the broadcast of these events may differ from the projections of revenues that support our amortization pattern of the rights costs we pay for these events. Such changes in revenues could result in an acceleration or slowing of the amortization of our sports rights costs. The Company has investments in equity securities. For equity securities that do not have a readily determinable fair value, The Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of 5.2 billion and 0.6 billion in fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively. The fiscal 2020 impairment charges primarily related to impairments of MVPD agreement intangibles assets ( 1.9 billion) The fiscal 2019 charges primarily related to impairments of investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting We evaluate our allowance for credit losses and estimate collectability of accounts receivable based on our analysis of We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and, as required, have accrued estimates of the probable and estimable As a matter of course, the Company is regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. From time to time, these In light of the currently unknown ultimate duration and severity of COVID-19, we face a greater degree of uncertainty than Certain of our completed or in progress film and television productions have had their initial release dates delayed or Given the ongoing uncertainty around the resumption and continuation of live sporting events, the amount and timing of 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 83 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Revenue Recognition live sports or original content). If there are delays or cancellations of live sporting events or disruptions to film and television content production activities, we may need to assess the impact on our contractual obligations and adjust the revenue that we recognize related to these contracts. Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets, Long-Lived Assets and Investments of our businesses and assets for purposes of impairment testing are subject to greater uncertainty than normal. If in the future we reduce our estimate of cash flow projections, we may need to impair some of these assets. Company s international television networks. Our international television networks primarily derive revenues from affiliate fees charged to MVPDs for the right to deliver our programming under multi-year licensing agreements and the sales of advertising time space on the networks. A majority of the operations in this reporting unit were acquired in the TFCF acquisition and therefore the fair value of these businesses approximated the carrying value at the date of the acquisition of TFCF. viewership and lower advertising revenue related to the availability of content, including the deferral or cancellation of certain live sporting events. The Company s increased focus on DTC distribution in international markets is expected to negatively impact the International Channels business as we shift the primary means of monetizing our film and television content from licensing of linear channels to use on our DTC services because the International Channels reporting unit valuation does not include the value derived from this shift, which is reflected in other reporting units. In addition, the industry shift to DTC, including by us and many of our distributors, who are pursuing their own DTC strategies, has changed the competitive dynamics for the International Channels business and resulted in unfavorable affiliation renewal terms for certain of our distribution agreements. recorded impairments of 1.9 billion primarily related to MVPD agreement intangible assets and 3.1 billion related to goodwill. fiscal 2020. Risk Management Contracts agreements and forward and option contracts to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. commodities as compared to our projections when we entered into hedges may cause us to recognize gains or losses on our hedging instruments in our income statement prior to when the hedged transaction was projected to occur. New Accounting Pronouncements FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS behalf of the Company. We may from time to time make written or oral statements that are forward-looking, including statements contained in this report and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in reports to our shareholders. Such statements may, for example, express expectations, projections, estimates or future impacts actions that we may take (or not take) or developments beyond our control, including changes in domestic or global economic conditions. All forward-looking statements are made on the basis of management s views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update its disclosure relating to forward-looking matters. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Significant factors affecting these expectations are set forth under Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report on Form 10-K as well as in this Item 7 - Management s Discussion and Analysis and Item 1 - Business. Certain of our affiliate contracts contain commitments with respect to the content to be aired on our television networks (e.g. Given the ongoing impacts of COVID-19 across our businesses, the projected cash flows that we use to assess the fair value Our International Channels reporting unit, which is part of the Direct-to-Consumer & International segment, comprises the The International Channels business has been negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic resulting in decreased In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, we assessed the International Channels long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment and See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the impairment tests performed in the third quarter of The Company employs a variety of financial instruments (derivatives) including interest rate and cross-currency swap Changes to our hedged cash flows from a decrease in projected revenues of the Company or reductions of projected usage of See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 84 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk changes in the market values of its investments. Policies and Procedures changes in interest rates, foreign currencies and commodities using a variety of financial instruments. cash flows and to lower overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we primarily use interest rate swaps to manage net exposure to interest rate changes related to the Company s portfolio of borrowings. By policy, the Company targets fixed-rate debt as a percentage of its net debt between minimum and maximum percentages. to allow management to focus on core business issues and challenges. Accordingly, the Company enters into various contracts that change in value as foreign exchange rates change to protect the U.S. dollar equivalent value of its existing foreign currency assets, liabilities, commitments and forecasted foreign currency revenues and expenses. The Company utilizes option strategies and forward contracts that provide for the purchase or sale of foreign currencies to hedge probable, but not firmly committed, transactions. The Company also uses forward and option contracts to hedge foreign currency assets and liabilities. The principal foreign currencies hedged are the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, Chinese yuan and Canadian dollar. Cross-currency swaps are used to effectively convert foreign currency denominated borrowings to U.S. dollar denominated borrowings. By policy, the Company maintains hedge coverage between minimum and maximum percentages of its forecasted foreign exchange exposures generally for periods not to exceed four years. The gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the related exposures. The economic or political conditions in a country could reduce our ability to hedge exposure to currency fluctuations in the country or our ability to repatriate revenue from the country. earnings and cash flows arising from commodity price changes. The amounts hedged using commodity swap contracts are based on forecasted levels of consumption of certain commodities, such as fuel oil and gasoline. instruments only to the extent considered necessary to meet its objectives as stated above. The Company does not enter into these transactions or any other hedging transactions for speculative purposes. Value at Risk (VAR) foreign exchange, commodities and market sensitive equity financial instruments. The VAR model estimates were made assuming normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. Various modeling techniques can be used in a VAR computation. The Company s computations are based on the interrelationships between movements in various interest rates, currencies, commodities and equity prices (a variance co-variance technique). These interrelationships were determined by observing interest rate, foreign currency, commodity and equity market changes over the preceding quarter for the calculation of VAR amounts at each fiscal quarter end. The model includes all of the Company s debt as well as all interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts, commodities and market sensitive equity investments. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and accounts receivable and payable denominated in foreign currencies, which certain of these instruments are intended to hedge, were excluded from the model. Company, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market factors. The Company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, commodity fluctuations and In the normal course of business, we employ established policies and procedures to manage the Company s exposure to Our objectives in managing exposure to interest rate changes are to limit the impact of interest rate volatility on earnings and Our objective in managing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is to reduce volatility of earnings and cash flow in order Our objectives in managing exposure to commodity fluctuations are to use commodity derivatives to reduce volatility of It is the Company s policy to enter into foreign currency and interest rate derivative transactions and other financial The Company utilizes a VAR model to estimate the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of its interest rate, The VAR model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that will be incurred by the VAR on a combined basis increased to 323 million at October 3, 2020 from 322 million at September 28, 2019. 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 85 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS millions): accordingly has been excluded from the above table. ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and made known to the officers who certify the Company s financial reports and to other members of senior management and the Board of Directors as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Company have concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) are effective. Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Changes in Internal Controls October 3, 2020 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. ITEM 9B. Other Information Fiscal 2020 Year end fiscal 2020 VAR 304 29 81 1 323 Average VAR 439 37 32 3 448 Highest VAR 718 57 81 5 742 Lowest VAR 221 19 1 1 223 Year end fiscal 2019 VAR 317 28 1 2 322 The estimated maximum potential one-day loss in fair value, calculated using the VAR model, is as follows (unaudited, in The VAR for Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and Shanghai Disney Resort is immaterial as of October 3, 2020 and See Index to Financial Statements and Supplemental Data on page 70. We have established disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that the information required to be disclosed by the Based on their evaluation as of October 3, 2020, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer of the Management s report set forth on page 71 is incorporated herein by reference. There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended Interest Rate Instruments Financial Instruments Currency Sensitive Financial Instruments Financial Equity Sensitive Instruments Sensitive Financial Combined Portfolio 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 86 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance directors and director nominations appearing under the captions Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance, Committees, Governing Documents, Director Selection Process and Election of Directors in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2021 annual meeting of Shareholders is hereby incorporated by reference. ITEM 11. Executive Compensation Compensation Tables in the 2021 Proxy Statement (other than the Compensation Committee Report, which is deemed furnished herein by reference) is hereby incorporated by reference. ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Stock Ownership and information appearing under the caption Equity Compensation Plans in the 2021 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Transactions and information regarding director independence appearing under the caption Director Independence in the 2021 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services Non-Audit Services in the 2021 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. Information regarding Section 16(a) compliance, the Audit Committee, the Company s code of ethics, background of the Information regarding executive officers is included in Part I of this Form 10-K as permitted by General Instruction G(3). Information appearing under the captions Director Compensation, Compensation Discussion and Analysis and Information setting forth the security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management appearing under the caption Information regarding certain related transactions appearing under the captions Certain Relationships and Related Person Information appearing under the captions Auditor Fees and Services and Policy for Approval of Audit and Permitted 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 87 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules (1) Financial Statements and Schedules (2) Exhibits 1.1 Underwriting Agreement, dated March 19, 2020, among The Walt Disney Company, TWDC Enterprises 18 Corp. and BofA Securities, Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein 1.2 Underwriting Agreement, dated March 26, 2020, among The Walt Disney Company, TWDC Enterprises 18 Corp. and Merrill Lynch Canada Inc., HSBC Securities (Canada) Inc. and RBC Dominion Securities Inc. 1.3 Underwriting Agreement, dated May 11, 2020, among The Walt Disney Company, TWDC Enterprises 18 Corp. and BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Credit 2.1 Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 20, 2018, among Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc., The Walt Disney Company, TWDC Holdco 613 Corp., WDC Merger Enterprises I, Inc., and WDC Merger Enterprises II, Inc. 2.2 Equity Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 3, 2019, among The Walt Disney Company, Fox Cable Networks, LLC and Diamond Sports Group, LLC 3.1 Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Walt Disney Company, effective as of March 19, 2019 3.2 Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Walt Disney Company, effective as of March 20, 2019 3.3 Amended and Restated Bylaws of The Walt Disney Company, effective as of March 20, 2019 3.4 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of TWDC Enterprises 18 Corp., effective as of March 20, 2019 3.5 Amended and Restated Bylaws of TWDC Enterprises 18 Corp., effective as of March 20, 2019 3.6 Certificate of Elimination of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock of The Walt Disney Company, as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on November 28, 2018 4.1 Senior Debt Securities Indenture, dated as of September 24, 2001, between TWDC Enterprises 18 Corp. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Trustee 4.2 First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 20, 2019, among The Walt Disney Company, TWDC Enterprises 18 Corp. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Trustee 4.3 Indenture, dated as of March 20, 2019, by and among The Walt Disney Company, as issuer, and TWDC Enterprises 18 Corp., as guarantor, and Citibank, N.A., as trustee See Index to Financial Statements and Supplemental Data on page 70. The documents set forth below are filed herewith or incorporated herein by reference to the location indicated. Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein. Exhibit Location Exhibit 1.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed March 23, 2020 Exhibit 1.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the company filed March 30, 2020 Exhibit 1.1 to the Current Report on form 8-K of the Company filed May 13, 2020 Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed June 21, 2018 Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed May 3, 2019 Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed March 20, 2019 Exhibit 3.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed March 20, 2019 Exhibit 3.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed March 20, 2019 Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed March 20, 2019 Exhibit 3.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed March 20, 2019 Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed November 30, 2018 Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed September 24, 2001 Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed March 20, 2019 Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed March 20, 2019 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 88 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS 10.10 Amendment to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, Dated as of October 6, 2011 and as previously amended, between the Company and Robert A. Iger, dated February 24, 2020 10.12 Amendment dated February 4, 2015 to the Employment Agreement dated as of September 27, 2013 between the Company and Alan N. Braverman 10.13 Amendment dated August 15, 2017 to the Employment Agreement dated as of September 27, 2013 between the Company and Alan N. Braverman 10.14 Amendment dated December 3, 2018 to the Employment Agreement, dated as of September 27, 2013, as amended, between the Company and Alan N. Braverman 10.11 Employment Agreement, dated as of September 27, 2013 between the Company and Alan N. Braverman 10.1 Amended and Restated Voting Agreement, dated as of June 20, 2018, among The Walt Disney Company, Murdoch Family Trust, and Cruden Financial Services LLC 10.2 Employment Agreement dated as of February 24, 2020 between the Company and Robert Chapek 10.3 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of October 6, 2011, between the Company and Robert A. Iger 10.4 Amendment dated July 1, 2013 to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of October 6, 2011, between the Company and Robert A. Iger 10.5 Amendment dated October 2, 2014 to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of October 6, 2011, between the Company and Robert A. Iger 10.6 Amendment dated March 22, 2017 to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of October 6, 2011, between the Company and Robert A. Iger 10.7 Amendment dated December 13, 2017 to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of October 6, 2011, between the Company and Robert A. Iger 10.8 Amendment to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, Dated as of October 6, 2011, as amended, between the Company and Robert A. Iger, dated November 30, 2018 10.9 Amendment to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, Dated as of October 6, 2011, as amended, between the Company and Robert A. Iger, dated March 4, 2019 4.4 Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2019, by and among The Walt Disney Company, as issuer, TWDC Enterprises 18 Corp., as guarantor, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, BNP Paribas Securities Corp., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and RBC Capital Markets, LLC, as dealer managers 4.5 Other long-term borrowing instruments are omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K. The Company undertakes to furnish copies of such instruments to the Commission upon request 4.6 Description of Registrant s Securities Exhibit 4.6 to the Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2019 Exhibit Location Exhibit 4.5 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed March 20, 2019 Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed June 21, 2018 Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed February 25, 2020 Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-K of Legacy Disney for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2011 Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed July 1, 2013 Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed October 3, 2014 Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed March 23, 2017 Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed December 14, 2017 Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed December 3, 2018 Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed March 4, 2019 Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed February 25, 2020 Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed October 2, 2013 Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed February 5, 2015 Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed August 17, 2017 Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed December 4, 2018 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 89 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS 10.15 Amendment dated October 8, 2019 to the Employment Agreement, dated as of September 27, 2013, as amended, between the Company and Alan N. Braverman 10.16 Employment Agreement dated August 15, 2017 and effective between the Company and Jayne Parker 10.17 Employment Agreement dated as of July 1, 2015 between the Company and Christine M. McCarthy 10.18 Amendment dated August 15, 2017 to the Employment Agreement dated as of July 1, 2015 between the Company and Christine M. McCarthy 10.19 Employment Agreement, dated as of September 27, 2018 between the Company and Zenia Mucha 10.20 Voluntary Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan 10.21 Description of Directors Compensation Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q of Legacy Disney for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 10.22 Form of Indemnification Agreement for certain officers and directors 10.23 Form of Assignment and Assumption of Indemnification Agreement for certain officers and directors 10.24 1995 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors Exhibit 20 to the Form S-8 Registration Statement (No. 33-57811) of DEI, dated Feb. 23, 1995 10.25 Amended and Restated 2002 Executive Performance Plan 10.26 Management Incentive Bonus Program The portions of the tables labeled Performance based Bonus in the sections of the Proxy Statement for the 2020 annual meeting titled Fiscal 2019 Total Direct Compensation and Compensation Process and the section of the Proxy Statement titled Performance Goals 10.27 Amended and Restated 1997 Non-Employee Directors Stock and Deferred Compensation Plan 10.28 Amended and Restated The Walt Disney Company Pixar 2004 Equity Incentive Plan 10.29 Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan Annex B to Proxy Statement of registrant filed January 17, 2020 10.30 Disney Key Employees Retirement Savings Plan Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q of Legacy Disney for the quarter ended July 2, 2011 10.31 Amendments dated April 30, 2015 to the Amended and Restated The Walt Disney Productions and Associated Companies Key Employees Deferred Compensation and Retirement Plan, Amended and Restated Benefit Equalization Plan of ABC, Inc. and Disney Key Employees Retirement Savings Plan 10.32 Group Personal Excess Liability Insurance Plan Exhibit 10(x) to the Form 10-K of Legacy Disney for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1997 10.33 Amended and Restated Severance Pay Plan Exhibit 10.4 to the Form 10-Q of Legacy Disney for the quarter ended December 27, 2008 10.34 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (Time- Based Vesting) 10.35 Form of Performance-Based Stock Unit Award Agreement (Section 162(m) Vesting Requirement) Exhibit Location Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed October 11, 2019 Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed August 17, 2017 Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed June 30, 2015 Exhibit 10.4 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed August 17, 2017 Exhibit 10.4 to the Form 10-Q of Legacy Disney for the quarter ended December 29, 2018 Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed December 23, 2014 Annex C to the Proxy Statement for the 1987 annual meeting of DEI Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q of the Company for the quarter ended June 29, 2019 Annex A to the Proxy Statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of the Registrant Annex II to the Proxy Statement for the 2003 annual meeting of Legacy Disney Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed December 1, 2006 Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-Q of Legacy Disney for the quarter ended March 28, 2015 Exhibit 10.8 to the Form 10-Q of Legacy Disney for the quarter ended December 29, 2018 Exhibit 10.9 to the Form 10-Q of Legacy Disney for the quarter ended December 29, 2018 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 90 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS 10.36 Form of Performance-Based Stock Unit Award Agreement (Three-Year Vesting subject to Total Shareholder Return EPS Growth Tests 10.37 Form of Performance-Based Stock Unit Award Agreement (Three-Year Vesting subject to Total Shareholder Return EPS Growth Tests) 10.38 Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement 10.39 Performance-Based Stock Unit Award (Four-Year Vesting subject to Total Shareholder Return Test Section 162(m) Vesting Requirements) for Robert A. Iger dated as of December 13, 2017 10.40 Performance-Based Stock Unit Award (Four-Year Vesting subject to Total Shareholder Return Test) as Amended and Restated November 30, 2018 by and between the Company and Robert A. Iger 10.41 Performance-Based Stock Unit Award (Section 162(m) Vesting Requirement) for Robert A. Iger dated as of December 13, 2017 10.42 Form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (Three-Year Vesting subject to Total Shareholder Return ROIC Tests) 10.43 Disney Savings and Investment Plan as Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2015 10.44 First Amendment dated December 19, 2016 to the Disney Savings and Investment Plan as amended and restated effective January 1, 2015 10.45 Second Amendment dated December 3, 2012 to the Disney Savings and Investment Plan 10.46 Third Amendment dated December 18, 2014 to the Disney Savings and Investment Plan 10.47 Fourth Amendment dated April 30, 2015 to the Disney Savings and Investment Plan 10.48 Disney Hourly Savings and Investment Plan Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2015 10.49 First Amendment to the Disney Hourly Savings and Investment Plan as Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2015 10.50 Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan 10.51 Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of March 9, 2018 Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed March 9, 2018 10.52 First Amendment dated as of December 19, 2018 to the Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of March 9, 2018 10.53 Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of March 6, 2020 Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed March 11, 2020 10.54 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of March 6, 2020 Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed March 11, 2020 10.55 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of April 10, 2020, among The Walt Disney Company, as borrower, TWDC Enterprises 18 Corp., as guarantor, the lenders party thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as designated agent Section 162(m) Vesting Requirement) Exhibit Location Exhibit 10.11 to the Form 10-Q of Legacy Disney for the quarter ended December 29, 2018 Exhibit 10.10 to the Form 10-Q of Legacy Disney for the quarter ended December 29, 2018 Exhibit 10.12 to the Form 10-Q of Legacy Disney for the quarter ended December 29, 2018 Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-Q of Legacy Disney for the quarter ended December 30, 2017 Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed December 3, 2018 Exhibit 10.4 to the Form 10-Q of Legacy Disney for the quarter ended December 30, 2017 Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q of the Company for the quarter ended December 28, 2019 Exhibit 10.30 to the Form 10-K of Legacy Disney for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 Exhibit 10.31 to the Form 10-K of Legacy Disney for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q of Legacy Disney for the quarter ended December 29, 2012 Exhibit 10.4 to the Form 10-Q of Legacy Disney for the quarter ended March 28, 2015 Exhibit 10.5 to the Form 10-Q of Legacy Disney for the quarter ended March 28, 2015 Exhibit 4.8 to the Form S-8 Registration Statement of the Company filed March 20, 2019 Exhibit 4.9 to the Form S-8 Registration Statement of the Company filed March 20, 2019 Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K of TFCF filed October 18, 2013 Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Legacy Disney filed December 26, 2018 Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed April 13, 2020 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 91 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary Certain schedules and exhibits have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K. A copy of any omitted schedule or exhibit will be furnished supplementally to the SEC upon request. A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the SEC or its staff upon request. Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 31(b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer of the Company in accordance with Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32(b) Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer of the Company in accordance with Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 31(a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer of the Company in accordance with Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32(a) Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer of the Company in accordance with Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 101 The following materials from the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 3, 2020 formatted in Inline Extensible Business Reporting Language (iXBRL): (i) the Consolidated Statements of Operations, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, (iii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Equity and (vi) related notes 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) 21 Subsidiaries of the Company Filed herewith 22 List of Guarantor Subsidiaries Filed herewith 23 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Filed herewith 99 Waiver of Rights to Extension Bonus, dated as of December 20, 2019, by Robert A. Iger Exhibit Location Filed herewith Filed herewith Furnished herewith Furnished herewith Exhibit 99 to the Form 10-Q of the Company for the quarter ended December 28, 2019 Filed herewith Filed herewith 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 92 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. Principal Executive Officer s ROBERT A. CHAPEK Chief Executive Officer and Director November 25, 2020 (Robert A. Chapek) Principal Financial and Accounting Officers s CHRISTINE M. MCCARTHY Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Christine M. McCarthy) s BRENT A. WOODFORD Executive Vice President-Controllership, Financial Planning and Tax (Brent A. Woodford) Directors s SUSAN E. ARNOLD Director November 25, 2020 (Susan E. Arnold) s MARY T. BARRA Director November 25, 2020 (Mary T. Barra) s SAFRA A. CATZ Director November 25, 2020 (Safra A. Catz) s FRANCIS A. DESOUZA Director November 25, 2020 (Francis A. deSouza) s MICHAEL FROMAN Director November 25, 2020 (Michael Froman) s ROBERT A. IGER Executive Chairman, Chairman of the Board and Director November 25, 2020 (Robert A. Iger) s MARIA ELENA LAGOMASINO Director November 25, 2020 (Maria Elena Lagomasino) s MARK G. PARKER Director November 25, 2020 (Mark G. Parker) s DERICA W. RICE Director November 25, 2020 (Derica W. Rice) Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused Date: November 25, 2020 By: s ROBERT A. Chapek Signature Title Date SIGNATURES THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY (Registrant) (Robert A. Chapek, Chief Executive Officer and Director) November 25, 2020 November 25, 2020 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 93 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS statements or notes. Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 71 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 72 Consolidated Financial Statements of The Walt Disney Company and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 79 Quarterly Financial Summary (unaudited) 133 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended October 3, 2020, September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 74 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the Years Ended October 3, 2020, September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 75 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019 76 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended October 3, 2020, September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 77 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity for the Years Ended October 3, 2020, September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 78 All schedules are omitted for the reason that they are not applicable or the required information is included in the financial INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 94 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. reporting and the preparation of financial statements prepared for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in 2013. Based on our evaluation under the framework in Internal Control - Integrated Framework, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of October 3, 2020. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included herein. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our principal executive officer and principal The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of October 3, 2020 has been audited by MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 95 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of The Walt Disney Company Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting Company ) as of October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), shareholders equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 3, 2020, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the consolidated financial statements ). We also have audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of October 3, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). position of the Company as of October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 3, 2020 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 3, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Change in Accounting Principle leases in fiscal year 2020. Basis for Opinions control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on the Company s consolidated financial statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Walt Disney Company and its subsidiaries (the In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for The Company s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 96 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 97 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Critical Audit Matters statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate. Goodwill Interim Impairment Assessment for International Channels Reporting Unit 77.7 billion as of October 3, 2020. Management tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, and if current events or circumstances require, on an interim basis. In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, management performed an impairment test of the International Channels goodwill. The carrying value of the International Channels exceeded the fair value and management recorded a non-cash impairment charge of 3.1 billion to fully impair the International Channels reporting unit goodwill. The fair value was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis. The determination of fair value required management to make assumptions and estimates about how market participants would value the International Channels. The more sensitive inputs used in the discounted cash flow analysis include future revenue growth and projected margins as well as the discount rates used to calculate the present value of future cash flows. assessment of the International Channels reporting unit is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment required of management when determining the fair value of the International Channels reporting unit, which in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity, and effort in performing procedures to evaluate management s significant assumptions related to future revenue growth, projected margins, and the discount rates used in the fair value measurement of the International Channels reporting unit. In addition, the audit effort involved the use of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge. opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to management s goodwill interim impairment assessment, including controls over the valuation of the International Channels reporting unit. These procedures also included, among others, testing management s process for determining the fair value estimates, which included (i) evaluating the appropriateness of the discounted cash flow model (ii) testing the completeness and accuracy of underlying data used in the model and (iii) evaluating the significant assumptions used by management related to the future revenue growth, projected margins and discount rates. Evaluating management s assumptions related to future revenue growth and projected margins involved evaluating whether the assumptions used by management were reasonable considering (i) the current and past performance of the reporting unit, (ii) the consistency with external market and industry data, and (iii) whether these assumptions were consistent with evidence obtained in other areas of the audit. Professionals with specialized skill and knowledge were used to assist in the evaluation of the Company s discount rates. Amortization of Produced Content Cost Predominantly Monetized as a Group ( DTC ) streaming services and linear television networks. The Company generally classifies the content that is initially intended for use on their DTC services or on their linear television networks as group assets. Production costs predominantly monetized as a group are amortized based on projected usage (which may be, for example, derived from historical viewership patterns), typically resulting in an accelerated or straight-line amortization pattern. For the year ended October 3, 2020, the Company recognized 5.0 billion of amortization expense related to produced content cost predominantly monetized as a group, which is primarily included in Cost of services in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. costs predominantly monetized as a group is a critical audit matter are the high degree of auditor subjectivity and effort in performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence relating to management s estimate of projected usage used in the amortization calculation. opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to amortization of produced content costs predominantly monetized as a group including controls over the estimation of projected usage. These procedures also included, among others, evaluating the content amortization method and testing the completeness and accuracy of the historical viewership data used to calculate the estimate of projected usage. s PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Los Angeles, California November 25, 2020 We have served as the Company s auditor since 1938. The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial As described in Notes 2, 4 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company s consolidated goodwill balance was The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the goodwill interim impairment Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall As described in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company produces content for its Direct-to-Consumer The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to amortization of produced content Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 98 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 99 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Costs and expenses: Restructuring and impairment charges (5,735) (1,183) (33) Other income, net 1,038 4,357 601 Interest expense, net (1,491) (978) (574) Equity in the income (loss) of investees 651 (103) (102) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (1,743) 13,923 14,729 Income taxes on continuing operations (699) (3,026) (1,663) Net income (loss) from continuing operations (2,442) 10,897 13,066 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax benefit (expense) Net income (loss) (2,474) 11,584 13,066 Net income from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling and Net income from discontinued operations attributable to noncontrolling interests (58) Net income (loss) attributable to The Walt Disney Company (Disney) (2,864) 11,054 12,598 Earnings (loss) per share attributable to Disney : Weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares of 10, ( 39) and 0, respectively (32) 687 redeemable noncontrolling interests (390) (472) (468) Services 59,265 60,579 50,869 Products 6,123 9,028 8,565 Cost of services (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) (39,406) (36,493) (27,528) Cost of products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) (4,474) (5,568) (5,198) Selling, general, administrative and other (12,369) (11,549) (8,860) Depreciation and amortization (5,345) (4,167) (3,011) Continuing operations (1.57) 6.26 8.36 Discontinued operations (0.02) 0.38 Continuing operations (1.57) 6.30 8.40 Discontinued operations (0.02) 0.38 outstanding: Diluted 1,808 1,666 1,507 Basic 1,808 1,656 1,499 Total revenues 65,388 69,607 59,434 Total costs and expenses (61,594) (57,777) (44,597) Total may not equal the sum of the column due to rounding. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except per share data) (1.58) 6.64 8.36 (1.58) 6.68 8.40 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 100 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Net income (loss) (2,474) 11,584 13,066 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax: Other comprehensive income (loss) (1,612) (2,879) 359 Comprehensive income (loss) (4,086) 8,705 13,425 Net income from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling interests (390) (530) (468) Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (93) 65 72 Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Disney (4,569) 8,240 13,029 Market value adjustments, primarily for hedges (251) (37) 214 Pension and postretirement medical plan adjustments (1,476) (2,446) 434 Foreign currency translation and other 115 (396) (289) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 101 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS ASSETS Current assets Produced and licensed content costs 25,022 22,810 Investments 3,903 3,224 Parks, resorts and other property Intangible assets, net 19,173 23,215 Goodwill 77,689 80,293 Other assets 8,433 4,715 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Current liabilities Borrowings 52,917 38,129 Deferred income taxes 7,288 7,902 Other long-term liabilities 17,204 13,760 Commitments and contingencies (Note 15) Redeemable noncontrolling interests 9,249 8,963 Cash and cash equivalents 17,914 5,418 Receivables 12,708 15,481 Inventories 1,583 1,649 Licensed content costs and advances 2,171 4,597 Other current assets 875 979 Attractions, buildings and equipment 62,111 58,589 Accumulated depreciation (35,517) (32,415) Projects in progress 4,449 4,264 Land 1,035 1,165 Accounts payable and other accrued liabilities 16,801 17,762 Current portion of borrowings 5,711 8,857 Deferred revenue and other 4,116 4,722 Preferred stock Common stock, .01 par value, Authorized 4.6 billion shares, Issued 1.8 billion shares 54,497 53,907 Retained earnings 38,315 42,494 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (8,322) (6,617) Treasury stock, at cost, 19 million shares (907) (907) Noncontrolling interests 4,680 5,012 Total current assets 35,251 28,124 Total current liabilities 26,628 31,341 Total Disney Shareholders equity 83,583 88,877 Total equity 88,263 93,889 Total assets 201,549 193,984 Total liabilities and equity 201,549 193,984 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except share data) October 3, 26,594 26,174 32,078 31,603 September 28, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 102 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS OPERATING ACTIVITIES INVESTING ACTIVITIES FINANCING ACTIVITIES CASH FLOWS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Impact of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 38 (98) (25) Change in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 12,499 1,300 91 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, beginning of year 5,455 4,155 4,064 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, end of year 17,954 5,455 4,155 Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information: Net income (loss) from continuing operations (2,442) 10,897 13,066 Depreciation and amortization 5,345 4,167 3,011 Goodwill and intangible asset impairments 4,953 Net gain on investments, acquisitions and dispositions (920) (4,733) (560) Deferred income taxes (392) 117 (1,573) Equity in the (income) loss of investees (651) 103 102 Cash distributions received from equity investees 774 754 775 Net change in produced and licensed content costs and advances 397 (542) (523) Net change in operating lease right of use assets liabilities 31 Equity-based compensation 525 711 393 Other 641 154 441 Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of business acquisitions: Cash provided by operations - continuing operations 7,616 5,984 14,295 Investments in parks, resorts and other property (4,022) (4,876) (4,465) Acquisitions (9,901) (1,581) Other 172 (319) 710 Cash used in investing activities - continuing operations (3,850) (15,096) (5,336) Commercial paper borrowings (payments), net (3,354) 4,318 (1,768) Borrowings 18,120 38,240 1,056 Reduction of borrowings (3,533) (38,881) (1,871) Dividends (1,587) (2,895) (2,515) Repurchases of common stock (3,577) Proceeds from exercise of stock options 305 318 210 Contributions from sales of noncontrolling interests 94 737 399 Acquisition of noncontrolling and redeemable noncontrolling interests (1,430) Other (1,565) (871) (777) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities - continuing operations 8,480 (464) (8,843) Cash provided by operations - discontinued operations 2 622 Cash provided by investing activities - discontinued operations 213 10,978 Cash used in financing activities - discontinued operations (626) Cash provided by discontinued operations 215 10,974 Interest paid 1,559 1,142 631 Income taxes paid 738 9,259 2,503 Receivables 1,943 55 (720) Inventories 14 (223) (17) Other assets (157) 932 (927) Accounts payable and other liabilities (2,293) 191 235 Income taxes (152) (6,599) 592 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 103 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Equity Attributable to Disney Balance at September 30, Balance at September 29, Balance at September 28, 2017 1,517 36,248 72,606 (3,528) (64,011) 41,315 3,689 45,004 Comprehensive income 12,598 431 13,029 425 13,454 Equity compensation Common stock Dividends 14 (2,529) (2,515) (2,515) Contributions 488 488 Distributions and other (1) 4 3 (543) (540) 2018 1,488 36,779 82,679 (3,097) (67,588) 48,773 4,059 52,832 Comprehensive income 11,054 (2,814) 8,240 371 8,611 Equity compensation Dividends 18 (2,913) (2,895) (2,895) Contributions 737 737 Acquisition of TFCF 307 33,774 33,774 10,408 44,182 Adoption of new Retirement of treasury Reclassification to Redemption of Sales of the RSNs (744) (744) Distributions and other (13) 3 (10) (619) (629) 2019 1,802 53,907 42,494 (6,617) (907) 88,877 5,012 93,889 Comprehensive income Equity compensation Di id d 9 (1 596) (1 587) (1 587) activity 6 518 518 518 repurchases (35) (3,577) (3,577) (3,577) activity 7 912 912 912 accounting guidance: stock (17,563) (49,118) 66,681 redeemable noncontrolling interest noncontrolling interest (loss) (2,864) (1,705) (4,569) 198 (4,371) activity 8 590 590 590 Reclassification of Intra-Entity Revenues from Other 22 (15) 7 7 Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory Contracts with Customers CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY 691 (691) 192 192 192 (116) (116) (116) (7,770) (7,770) (1,430) (1,430) (in millions) Comprehensive Accumulated controlling Interests Total Equity 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 104 169 Balance at October 3, Dividends 9 (1,596) (1,587) (1,587) Contributions 94 94 Adoption of new lease Distributions and other (9) 84 75 (624) (549) 2020 1,810 54,497 38,315 (8,322) (907) 83,583 4,680 88,263 accounting guidance 197 197 197 Excludes redeemable noncontrolling interest See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 105 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 Description of the Business and Segment Information diversified worldwide entertainment company with operations in the following business segments: Media Networks Parks, Experiences and Products Studio Entertainment and Direct-to-Consumer & International (DTCI). In October 2020, the Company announced a strategic reorganization of our media and entertainment businesses to accelerate the growth of our direct-to-consumer (DTC) strategy. The operations of the Media Networks, Studio Entertainment and DTCI segments were reorganized into four groups: three content groups (Studios, General Entertainment and Sports), which are focused on developing and producing content that will be used across all of our traditional and DTC platforms and a distribution group, which is focused on distribution and commercialization activities across these platforms and which has full accountability for media and entertainment operating results globally. subsidiaries through which various businesses are conducted. The term TWDC is used to refer to the parent company. Impact of COVID-19 coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. COVID-19 and measures to prevent its spread impacted our segments in a number of ways, most significantly at Parks, Experiences and Products where our theme parks were closed or operating at significantly reduced capacity for a significant portion of the year, cruise ship sailings and guided tours were suspended since late in the second quarter and retail stores were closed for a significant portion of the year. We also had an adverse impact on our merchandise licensing business. Our Studio Entertainment segment has delayed, or in some cases, shortened or cancelled, theatrical releases, and stage play performances have been suspended since late in the second quarter. We also had adverse impacts on advertising sales at Media Networks and Direct-to-Consumer & International. Since March 2020, we have experienced significant disruptions in the production and availability of content, including the shift of key live sports programming from our third quarter to the fourth quarter and into fiscal 2021 as well as the suspension of production of most film and television content since late in the second quarter, although some film and television production resumed in the fourth quarter. by the length of time that such disruptions continue, which will, in turn, depend on the currently unknowable duration and severity of the impacts of COVID-19, and among other things, the impact of governmental actions imposed in response to COVID-19 and individuals and companies risk tolerance regarding health matters going forward. As some of our businesses have reopened, we have incurred additional costs to address government regulations and the safety of our employees, talent and guests. negative impact COVID-19 has had on the International Channels business (see Note 19). Acquisition of TFCF company, which was subsequently renamed TFCF Corporation (TFCF). Prior to the acquisition, TFCF and a newly-formed subsidiary of TFCF (New Fox) entered into a separation agreement, pursuant to which TFCF transferred to New Fox a portfolio of TFCF s news, sports and broadcast businesses and certain other assets. TFCF retained all of the assets and liabilities not transferred to New Fox, the most significant of which were the Twentieth Century Fox film and television studios, certain cable networks (primarily FX and National Geographic), TFCF s international television businesses (including Star) and TFCF s 30% interest in Hulu LLC (Hulu). Under the terms of the agreement governing the acquisition, the Company will generally phase-out Fox brands by 2024, but has perpetual rights to certain Fox brands, including Twentieth Century Fox and Fox Searchlight, although these have been rebranded to Twentieth Century Studios and Searchlight Pictures, respectively. October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019). The acquired TFCF operations and Hulu have been consolidated since the acquisition. networks (RSNs) (sold in August 2019 for approximately 11 billion) and sports media operations in Brazil and Mexico. In addition, the Company agreed to divest its interest in certain European cable channels that were controlled by A E Television Networks (A E) (sold in April 2019 for an amount that was not material). In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company The Walt Disney Company, together with the subsidiaries through which businesses are conducted (the Company), is a The terms Company , we , our and us are used in this report to refer collectively to the parent company and the During fiscal 2020 and continuing into fiscal 2021, the world has been, and continues to be, impacted by the novel The impact of these disruptions and the extent of their adverse impact on our financial and operating results will be dictated In fiscal 2020, the Company recorded goodwill and intangible asset impairments totaling 5.0 billion, in part due to the On March 20, 2019, the Company acquired Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc., a diversified global media and entertainment As a result of the acquisition, the Company s ownership in Hulu LLC (Hulu) increased from 30% to 60% (67% as of In order to obtain regulatory approval for the acquisition, the Company agreed to sell TFCF s domestic regional sports (Tabular dollars in millions, except where noted and per share amounts) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 106 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS received regulatory approval to retain the sports media operation in Brazil. The RSNs and sports media operation in Mexico, along with certain other businesses to be divested, are presented as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. At October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019, the assets and liabilities of the businesses held for sale are not material and are included in other assets and other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The sports media operation in Brazil was previously presented as discontinued operations, with its assets and liabilities considered held for sale, but is now reported as continuing operations in the current and prior periods. The impact on the previously reported Consolidated Statements of Operations, Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows was not material. DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS Media Networks Parks, Experiences and Products See Note 4 for additional information on these transactions. Significant operations: Disney, ESPN, Freeform, FX and National Geographic branded domestic cable networks ABC branded broadcast television network and eight owned domestic television stations Television production and distribution A 50% equity investment in A E Significant revenues: Affiliate fees - Fees charged to multi-channel video programming distributors (i.e. cable, satellite, telecommunications and digital over-the-top (e.g. Hulu, YouTube TV) service providers) (MVPDs) and to television stations affiliated with the ABC Network for the right to deliver our programming to their customers Advertising - Sales of advertising time space on our domestic networks and related platforms ( ratings-based ad sales , which excludes advertising on digital platforms that is not ratings-based) and the sale of advertising time on our domestic television stations. Ratings-based ad sales are generally determined using viewership measured with Nielsen ratings. Non- ratings-based advertising on digital platforms is reported by DTCI TV SVOD distribution - Licensing fees and other revenues from the right to use our television programs and productions and revenue from content transactions with other Company segments ( program sales ) Significant expenses: Operating expenses consisting primarily of programming and production costs, participations and residuals expense, technical support costs, operating labor and distribution costs Selling, general and administrative costs Depreciation and amortization Significant operations: Parks & Experiences: Theme parks and resorts, which include: Walt Disney World Resort in Florida Disneyland Resort in California Disneyland Paris Hong Kong Disneyland Resort (48% ownership interest) Shanghai Disney Resort (43% ownership interest), all of which are consolidated in our results. Additionally, the Company licenses our intellectual property to a third party to operate Tokyo Disney Resort Consumer Products: Licensing of our trade names, characters, visual, literary and other intellectual properties to various manufacturers, game developers, publishers and retailers throughout the world, for use on merchandise, published materials and games Significant revenues: Theme park admissions - Sales of tickets for admission to our theme parks Parks & Experiences merchandise, food and beverage - Sales of merchandise, food and beverages at our theme parks and resorts and cruise ships Resorts and vacations - Sales of room nights at hotels, sales of cruise and other vacations and sales and rentals of vacation club properties Disney Cruise Line, Disney Vacation Club, National Geographic Expeditions (73% ownership interest), Adventures by Disney and Aulani, a Disney Resort & Spa in Hawaii Sale of branded merchandise through retail, online and wholesale businesses, and development and publishing of books, comic books and magazines (except National Geographic, which is reported in Media Networks) 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 107 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 108 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Studio Entertainment Direct-to-Consumer & International Merchandise licensing and retail: Merchandise licensing - Royalties from intellectual property licensing Parks licensing and other - Revenues from sponsorships and co-branding opportunities and real estate rent and sales. In addition, we earn royalties on Tokyo Disney Resort revenues Significant expenses: Operating expenses consisting primarily of operating labor, costs of goods sold, infrastructure costs, supplies, commissions and entertainment offerings. Infrastructure costs include information systems expense, repairs and maintenance, property taxes, utilities and fuel, retail occupancy costs, insurance and transportation Selling, general and administrative costs Depreciation and amortization Significant operations: Motion picture production and distribution under the Walt Disney Pictures, Twentieth Century Studios, Marvel, Lucasfilm, Pixar, Searchlight Pictures and Blue Sky Studios banners Development, production and licensing of live entertainment events on Broadway and around the world (stage plays) Music production and distribution Post-production services through Industrial Light & Magic and Skywalker Sound Significant revenues: Theatrical distribution - Rentals from licensing our motion pictures to theaters Home entertainment - Sale of our motion pictures to retailers and distributors in physical (DVD and Blu-ray) and electronic formats TV SVOD distribution and other - Licensing fees and other revenue from the right to use our motion picture productions, revenue from content transactions with other Company segments, ticket sales from stage plays, fees from licensing our intellectual properties for use in live entertainment productions, revenue from licensing our music and revenue from post- production services Significant expenses: Operating expenses consisting primarily of amortization of production, participations and residuals costs, distribution costs and costs of sales Selling, general and administrative costs Depreciation and amortization Significant operations: Direct-to-consumer (DTC) video streaming services, which include Disney Disney Hotstar, ESPN and Hulu. Disney launched in November 2019 in the U.S. and 4 other countries and has expanded to select Western European countries in the Spring of 2020. In April, our Hotstar service in India was converted to Disney Hotstar, and in June 2020, current subscribers of the Disney Deluxe service in Japan were converted to Disney . In September 2020, Disney was launched in additional European countries and Disney Hotstar was launched in Indonesia. In November 2020, Disney was launched in Latin America. The Company also plans to launch a general entertainment DTC video streaming service under the Star brand outside the U.S. in calendar year 2021 Branded international television networks and channels, which include Disney, ESPN, Fox, National Geographic and Star (International Channels) Other digital content distribution platforms and services including branded apps and websites, the Disney Movie Club and Disney Digital Network and streaming technology support services Equity investments: A 50% ownership interest in Endemol Shine Group, which was sold on July 2, 2020 Retail - Sales of merchandise at The Disney Stores and through branded internet shopping sites, as well as, to wholesalers (including books, comic books and magazines) A 20% ownership interest (49% economic interest) in Seven TV, which operates an advertising-supported, free-to-air Disney Channel in Russia A 30% effective ownership interest in Tata Sky Limited, which operates a direct-to-home satellite distribution platform in India 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 109 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS SEGMENT INFORMATION charges, net other income, net interest expense, income taxes and noncontrolling interests. Segment operating income includes equity in the income of investees and excludes impairments of certain equity investments and purchase accounting amortization for TFCF and Hulu assets (i.e. intangible assets and the fair value step-up for film and television costs) recognized in connection with the TFCF acquisition. Corporate and unallocated shared expenses principally consist of corporate functions, executive management and certain unallocated administrative support functions. shared services costs, which are allocated based on metrics designed to correlate with consumption. from intersegment transactions, and the required eliminations are reported on a separate Eliminations line when presenting a summary of our segment results). Other intersegment transactions are reported Net (i.e. revenue from another segment is recorded as a reduction of costs). Studio Entertainment revenues and operating income include an allocation of Parks, Experiences and Products revenues, which is meant to reflect royalties on revenue generated by Parks, Experiences and Products on merchandise based on intellectual property from Studio Entertainment films. will be used on our DTC services, there are four broad categories of content: generally cost plus a margin for Originals and Media Pay 1 content and generally based on comparable transactions for Studio Pay 1 and Library content. Imputed title by title intersegment license fees that may be necessary for other purposes are established as required by those purposes. for which revenue is recognized ratably over the license period. basis and for Media Pay 1 and Library content on a straight line basis. Networks, the difference results in an operating income impact in the elimination segment, which nets to zero over the DTC amortization period. Significant revenues: Subscription fees - Fees charged to customers subscribers for our DTC services Advertising - Sales of advertising time space on our International Channels and sales of non-ratings-based advertising time space on digital media platforms ( addressable ad sales ) across the Company. In general, addressable ad sales are delivered using technology that allows for dynamic insertion of advertisements into video content, which can be targeted to specific viewer groups Affiliate fees - Fees charged to MVPDs for the right to deliver our International Channels to their customers TV SVOD distribution - Program sales, sub-licensing fees for sports programming rights and fees charged to customers to view our sports programming ( pay-per-view ) and Premier Access content Significant expenses: Operating expenses consisting primarily of programming and production costs (including amortization of content obtained from other Company segments), technical support costs, operating labor and distribution costs Selling, general and administrative costs Depreciation and amortization Segment operating results reflect earnings before corporate and unallocated shared expenses, restructuring and impairment Segment operating results include allocations of certain costs, including information technology, pension, legal and other Intersegment content transactions are presented gross (i.e. the segment producing the content reports revenue and profit As it relates to film and television content that is produced by our Media Networks and Studio Entertainment segments that Content produced for exclusive DTC use, Originals New Studio Entertainment theatrical releases following the theatrical and home entertainment windows, Studio Pay 1 New Media Networks episodic television series following their initial airing on our linear networks, Media Pay 1 and Content in all other windows, Library . The intersegment transfer price, for purposes of segment financial reporting pursuant to ASC 280 Segment Reporting, is Intersegment revenue is recognized upon availability of the content to the DTC service except with respect to Library content Our DTC services generally amortize intersegment content costs for Originals and Studio Pay 1 content on an accelerated When the DTC amortization timing is different than the timing of revenue recognition at Studio Entertainment or Media An approximate 24% effective ownership interest (14% fully diluted) in Vice Group Holding Inc. (Vice), which is a media company that targets millennial audiences. Vice operates Viceland, which is owned 50% by Vice and 50% by A E 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 110 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Segment operating income (loss) Reconciliation of segment operating income to income from Capital expenditures Media Networks 28,393 24,827 21,922 Parks, Experiences and Products Studio Entertainment Direct-to-Consumer & International 16,967 9,386 3,414 Eliminations (6,110) (1,958) (668) Media Networks 9,022 7,479 7,338 Parks, Experiences and Products (81) 6,758 6,095 Studio Entertainment 2,501 2,686 3,004 Direct-to-Consumer & International (2,806) (1,835) (738) Eliminations (528) (241) (10) continuing operations before income taxes Segment operating income 8,108 14,847 15,689 Corporate and unallocated shared expenses (817) (987) (744) Restructuring and impairment charges (5,735) (1,183) (33) Other income, net 1,038 4,357 601 Interest expense, net (1,491) (978) (574) Amortization of TFCF and Hulu intangible assets and fair value Impairment of equity investments (538) (210) Media Networks Parks, Experiences and Products Studio Entertainment 77 88 96 Direct-to-Consumer & International 594 258 107 Corporate 335 210 159 step-up on film and television costs (2,846) (1,595) Third parties 17,038 26,786 25,257 Intersegment (536) (561) (556) Third parties 9,100 10,566 9,509 Intersegment 536 561 556 Total consolidated revenues 65,388 69,607 59,434 Total segment operating income 8,108 14,847 15,689 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (1,743) 13,923 14,729 Cable Networks 61 93 96 Broadcasting 51 81 107 Domestic 2,145 3,294 3,223 International 759 852 677 Total capital expenditures 4,022 4,876 4,465 The following tables provide select segment and regional financial information: 2020 2019 2018 16,502 26,225 24,701 9,636 11,127 10,065 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 111 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Depreciation expense Amortization of intangible assets Identifiable assets Segment operating income Media Networks 203 191 199 Parks, Experiences and Products Studio Entertainment 87 74 55 Direct-to-Consumer & International 348 214 106 Corporate 174 167 181 Media Networks 4 Parks, Experiences and Products 109 108 110 Studio Entertainment 59 61 64 Direct-to-Consumer & International 112 111 79 TFCF and Hulu intangible assets 1,921 1,043 Media Networks 62,220 63,519 Parks, Experiences and Products 42,320 41,978 Studio Entertainment 32,811 34,323 Direct-to-Consumer & International 45,538 48,606 Corporate 19,691 6,025 Eliminations (1,031) (467) Americas 51,992 53,805 46,877 Europe 7,333 8,006 7,026 Asia Pacific 6,063 7,796 5,531 Americas 5,819 10,247 11,898 Europe 1,273 2,433 1,922 Asia Pacific 1,016 2,167 1,869 Domestic 1,634 1,474 1,449 International 694 724 768 Depreciation expense included in segment operating Total depreciation expense 3,140 2,844 2,758 Amortization of intangible assets included in segment Total amortization of intangible assets 2,205 1,323 253 Total consolidated assets 201,549 193,984 income 2,966 2,677 2,577 operating income 284 280 253 65,388 69,607 59,434 8,108 14,847 15,689 October 3, 2020 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 September 28, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 112 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Long-lived assets Americas 141,674 138,674 Europe 7,672 10,793 Asia Pacific 12,235 12,703 For fiscal 2020, amortization of intangible assets, fair value step-up on film and television costs and intangibles related to TFCF equity investees were 1,921 million, 899 million and 26 million respectively. For fiscal 2019, amortization of intangible assets, fair value step-up on film and television costs and intangibles related to TFCF equity investees were 1,043 million, 537 million and 15 million, respectively. Impairment of equity investments for fiscal 2019 primarily reflects the impairments of Vice Group Holding Inc. and of an investment in a cable channel at A E Television Networks ( 353 million and 170 million, respectively). Impairment of equity investments for fiscal 2018 reflects impairments of Vice Group Holding Inc. and Villages Nature ( 157 million and 53 million, respectively). Media Networks 737 703 711 Parks, Experiences and Products (19) (13) (23) Studio Entertainment (1) Direct-to-Consumer & International (40) (240) (580) Equity in the income of investees included in Impairment of equity investments (538) (210) Amortization of TFCF intangible assets related to Intersegment content transactions are as follows: Equity in the income (loss) of investees is as follows: segment operating income 677 450 108 equity investees (26) (15) Equity in the income (loss) of investees 651 (103) (102) Operating Income: Studio Entertainment: Media Networks: Total (6,110) (1,958) (668) Studio Entertainment: Media Networks: Total (528) (241) (10) Content transactions with Media Networks (188) (106) (169) Content transactions with Direct-to-Consumer & Content transactions with Direct-to-Consumer & Content transactions with Media Networks 3 (19) (8) Content transactions with Direct-to-Consumer & Content transactions with Direct-to-Consumer & International (2,108) (272) (28) International (3,814) (1,580) (471) International (158) (80) International (373) (142) (2) 161,581 162,170 October 3, 2020 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 September 28, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 113 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Principles of Consolidation owned or controlled subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. (VIE). A VIE is consolidated in the financial statements if the Company has the power to direct activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of the VIE and has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant (as defined by ASC 810-10-25-38) to the VIE. Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and Shanghai Disney Resort (together the Asia Theme Parks) are VIEs in which the Company has less than 50% equity ownership. Company subsidiaries (the Management Companies) have management agreements with the Asia Theme Parks, which provide the Management Companies, subject to certain protective rights of joint venture partners, with the ability to direct the day-to-day operating activities and the development of business strategies that we believe most significantly impact the economic performance of the Asia Theme Parks. In addition, the Management Companies receive management fees under these arrangements that we believe could be significant to the Asia Theme Parks. Therefore, the Company has consolidated the Asia Theme Parks in its financial statements. Reporting Period that approximately every six years, we have a fifty-three week year. When a fifty-three week year occurs, the Company reports the additional week in the fourth quarter. Fiscal 2019 and 2018 were fifty-two week years. Fiscal 2020 is a fifty-three week year, which began on September 29, 2019 and ended on October 3, 2020. Reclassifications fiscal 2020 presentation. Use of Estimates make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and footnotes thereto. Actual results may differ from those estimates. The consolidated financial statements of the Company include the accounts of The Walt Disney Company and its majority- The Company enters into relationships with or makes investments in other entities that may be variable interest entities The Company s fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to September 30 and consists of fifty-two weeks with the exception Certain reclassifications have been made in the fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 financial statements and notes to conform to the The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to Intangible assets included in identifiable assets by segment are as follows: Long-lived assets are total assets less: current assets, long-term receivables, deferred taxes, financial investments and the fair value of derivative instruments. Media Networks 2,002 2,018 Parks, Experiences and Products 3 3 Studio Entertainment 2 8 Direct-to-Consumer & International 570 821 Corporate 55 72 Media Networks 7,242 7,861 Parks, Experiences and Products 3,066 3,177 Studio Entertainment 2,031 2,140 Direct-to-Consumer & International 6,814 9,962 Corporate 20 75 Equity method investments included in identifiable assets by segment are as follows: Primarily fixed assets and cash and cash equivalents. 2,632 2,922 October 3, 2020 19,173 23,215 October 3, 2020 September 28, September 28, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 114 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 115 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Revenues and Costs from Services and Products classified under these two categories in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Certain costs related to both the sale of services and tangible products are not specifically allocated between the service or tangible product revenue streams but are instead attributed to the principal revenue stream. The cost of services and tangible products exclude depreciation and amortization. Revenue Recognition the existing accounting guidance for revenue recognition with a single comprehensive five-step model ( new revenue guidance ). The core principle is to recognize revenue upon the transfer of control of goods or services to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration expected to be received. We adopted the new revenue guidance using the modified retrospective method therefore, results for reporting periods beginning after September 30, 2018 are presented under the new revenue guidance, while prior period amounts have not been adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting. Upon adoption, we recorded a net reduction of 116 million to opening fiscal 2019 retained earnings. guidance are as follows: The Company generates revenue from the sale of both services and tangible products and revenues and operating costs are Significant service revenues include: Affiliate fees Advertising revenues Subscription fees to our DTC streaming services Revenue from the licensing and distribution of film and television properties Admissions to our theme parks, charges for room nights at hotels and sales of cruise vacation packages Licensing of intellectual property for use on consumer merchandise, published materials and in multi-platform games Significant operating costs related to the sale of services include: Amortization of programming and production costs and participations and residuals costs Distribution costs Operating labor Facilities and infrastructure costs Significant tangible product revenues include: The sale of food, beverage and merchandise at our retail locations The sale of DVDs and Blu-ray discs The sale of books, comic books and magazines Significant operating costs related to the sale of tangible products include: Costs of goods sold Amortization of programming and production costs and participations and residuals costs Distribution costs Operating labor Retail occupancy costs At the beginning of fiscal 2019, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) guidance that replaced The most significant changes to the Company s revenue recognition policies resulting from the adoption of the new revenue For television and film content licensing agreements with multiple availability windows with the same licensee, the Company now defers more revenue to future windows than under the previous accounting guidance. For licenses of character images, brands and trademarks with minimum guaranteed license fees, the excess of the minimum guaranteed amount over actual amounts earned based on a percentage of the licensee s underlying sales ( shortfall ) is now recognized straight-line over the remaining license period once an expected shortfall is probable. Previously, shortfalls were recognized at the end of the contract period. For licenses that include multiple television and film titles with a minimum guaranteed license fee across all titles that earns out against the aggregate fees based on the licensee s underlying sales, the Company now allocates the minimum guaranteed license fee to each title at contract inception and recognizes the allocated license fee as revenue when the title is made available to the customer. License fees earned by titles in excess of their allocated amount are deferred until the minimum guaranteed license fee across all titles is exceeded. Once the minimum guaranteed license fee across all titles is exceeded, license fees are recognized as earned based on the licensee s underlying sales. Previously, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 116 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 117 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS as follows: to film content licensing agreements with multiple availability windows. service revenues: licenses of rights to use our intellectual property ( IP ), sales to guests at our Parks and Experiences businesses, sales of advertising time space and subscriptions to DTC services. The Company s primary product revenues include the sale of food, beverage and merchandise at our parks, resorts and retail stores and the sale of film and television productions in physical formats (DVD and Blu-ray). IP, and all other IP, which is called symbolic IP. Revenue related to the license of functional IP is generally recognized upon delivery (availability) of the IP to the customer. The substantial majority of the Company s film and television content distribution activities at the Media Networks, Studio Entertainment and DTCI segments is considered licensing of functional IP. Revenue related to the license of symbolic IP is generally recognized over the term of the license. The Company s primary revenue stream derived from symbolic IP is the licensing of trade names, characters and visual and literary properties at the Parks, Experiences and Products segment. Revenues 69,262 345 69,607 Cost and Expenses (57,523) (254) (57,777) Income Taxes (3,005) (21) (3,026) Net Income 11,514 70 11,584 For renewals or extensions of license agreements for television and film content, revenues are now recognized when the licensed content becomes available under the renewal or extension. Previously, revenues were recognized when the agreement was renewed or extended. The impact on the Consolidated Statement of Operations for fiscal 2019 due to the adoption of the new revenue guidance was The most significant impact was at the Studio Entertainment reflecting a change in the timing of revenue recognition related The Company generates revenue from the sale of both services and products. The Company has four broad categories of The new revenue guidance defines two types of IP licenses: IP that has standalone functionality, which is called functional More detailed information about the revenue recognition policies for our key revenues is as follows: Affiliate fees - Fees charged to affiliates (i.e., MVPDs or television stations) for the right to deliver our television network programming on a continuous basis to their customers are recognized as the programming is provided based on contractually specified per subscriber rates and the actual number of the affiliate s customers receiving the programming. Subscription fees - Fees charged to customers subscribers and wholesale distributors for our streaming services are recognized ratably over the term of the subscription. Advertising - Sales of advertising time space on our television networks, digital platforms and television stations are recognized as revenue, net of agency commissions, when commercials are aired. For contracts that contain a guaranteed number of impressions, revenues are recognized based on impressions delivered. When the guaranteed number of impressions is not met ( ratings shortfall ), revenues are not recognized for the ratings shortfall until the additional impressions are delivered. Theme park admissions - Sales of theme park tickets are recognized when the tickets are used. Sales of annual passes are recognized ratably over the period for which the pass is available for use. Resorts and vacations - Sales of hotel room nights and cruise vacations and rentals of vacation club properties are recognized as revenue as the services are provided to the guest. Sales of vacation club properties are recognized as revenue upon the later of when title transfers to the customer or when construction activity is deemed complete. license fees were recognized as earned based on the licensee s underlying sales with any shortfalls recognized at the end of the contract period. For affiliate contracts with fixed license fees, the fees are recognized ratably over the contract term. If an affiliate contract includes a minimum guaranteed license fee, the guaranteed license fee is recognized ratably over the guaranteed period and any fees earned in excess of the guarantee are recognized as earned once the minimum guarantee has been exceeded. Affiliate agreements may also include a license to use the network programming for on demand viewing. As the fees charged under these contracts are generally based on a contractually specified per subscriber rate for the number of underlying subscribers of the affiliate, revenues are recognized as earned. Results Assuming Historical Accounting Revenue Guidance Reported Impact of New 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 118 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Allowance for Doubtful Accounts allowance for doubtful accounts is estimated based on our analysis of trends in overall receivables aging, specific identification of certain receivables that are at risk of not being paid, past collection experience and current economic trends. Advertising Expense and 2.8 billion, respectively. The increase in advertising expense for fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to the consolidation of TFCF and Hulu, partially offset by lower advertising expense at Studio Entertainment and Parks, Experience and Products segments reflecting the impact of COVID-19 on these segments. The increase in advertising expense for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the consolidation of TFCF and Hulu. Cash and Cash Equivalents Company s restricted cash balances are primarily made up of cash posted as collateral for certain derivative instruments. Merchandise, food and beverage - Sales of merchandise, food and beverages at our theme parks and resorts, cruise ships and Disney Stores are recognized at the time of sale. Sales from our branded internet shopping sites and to wholesalers are recognized upon delivery. We estimate returns and customer incentives based upon historical return experience, current economic trends and projections of consumer demand for our products. TV SVOD distribution licensing - Fixed license fees charged for the right to use our television and film productions are recognized as revenue when the content is available for use by the licensee. License fees based on the underlying sales of the licensee are recognized as revenue as earned based on the contractual royalty rate applied to the licensee sales. Theatrical distribution licensing - Fees charged for licensing of our films to theatrical distributors are recognized as revenue based on the contractual royalty rate applied to the distributor s underlying sales from exhibition of the film. Merchandise licensing - Fees charged for the use of our trade names and characters in connection with the sale of a licensee s products are recognized as revenue as earned based on the contractual royalty rate applied to the licensee s underlying product sales. For licenses with minimum guaranteed license fees, the excess of the minimum guaranteed amount over actual royalties earned ( shortfall ) is recognized straight-line over the remaining license period once an expected shortfall is probable. Home entertainment - Sales of our films to retailers and distributors in physical formats (DVD and Blu-ray) are recognized as revenue on the later of the delivery date or the date that the product can be sold by retailers. We reduce home entertainment revenues for estimated future returns of merchandise and sales incentives based upon historical return experience, current economic trends and projections of consumer demand for our products. Sales of our films in electronic formats are recognized as revenue when the product is available for use by the consumer. Taxes - Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are excluded from revenue. Shipping and handling - Fees collected from customers for shipping and handling are recorded as revenue and the related shipping expenses are recorded in cost of products upon delivery of the product to the consumer. The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts to reserve for potentially uncollectible receivables. The Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expense for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 4.7 billion, 4.3 billion Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand and marketable securities with original maturities of three months or less. Cash and cash equivalents subject to contractual restrictions and not readily available are classified as restricted cash. The For TV SVOD licenses that include multiple titles with a fixed license fee across all titles, each title is considered a separate performance obligation. The fixed license fee is allocated to each title at contract inception and the allocated license fee is recognized as revenue when the title is available for use by the licensee. When the license contains a minimum guaranteed license fee across all titles, the license fees earned by titles in excess of their allocated amount are deferred until the minimum guaranteed license fee across all titles is exceeded. Once the minimum guaranteed license fee is exceeded, revenue is recognized as earned based on the licensee s underlying sales. TV SVOD distribution contracts may limit the licensee s use of a title to certain defined periods of time during the contract term. In these instances, each period of availability is generally considered a separate performance obligation. For these contracts, the fixed license fee is allocated to each period of availability at contract inception based on relative standalone selling price using management s best estimate. Revenue is recognized at the start of each availability period when the content is made available for use by the licensee. When the term of an existing agreement is renewed or extended, revenues are recognized when the licensed content becomes available under the renewal or extension. 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 119 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Balance Sheet to the total of the amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Investments recorded at that value with unrealized gains and losses included in earnings. For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value, the investment is recorded at cost, less any impairment, plus or minus adjustments related to observable transactions for the same or similar securities, with unrealized gains and losses included in earnings. value below book value. If there is a decline that is other-than-temporary, the investment is written down to fair value. Translation Policy businesses and the branded International Channels. Generally, the local currency is the functional currency for the Asia Theme Parks, Disneyland Paris, the branded International Channels that primarily source and exploit their content locally (primarily Star branded channels in India and international sports channels) and international locations of The Disney Stores. of-period exchange rates, except for non-monetary balance sheet accounts, which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Revenue and expenses are remeasured at average exchange rates in effect during each period, except for those expenses related to the non-monetary balance sheet amounts, which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in income. are translated at average rates in effect during the period. Equity is translated at historical rates and the resulting cumulative translation adjustments are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI). Inventories vacation ownership units are recorded at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Carrying amounts of merchandise, food, materials and supplies inventories are generally determined on a moving average cost basis and are recorded at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Film and Television Content Costs television content costs. See Note 8 for discussion of the new guidance and the Company s accounting policy for capitalization and amortization of film and television content costs. Internal-Use Software Costs as research and feasibility studies as well as costs incurred in the post-implementation operational stage, such as maintenance and training. Capitalization of software development costs occurs only after the preliminary-project stage is complete, management authorizes the project and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used for the function intended. As of October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019, capitalized software costs, net of accumulated depreciation, totaled 778 million and 927 million, respectively. The capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the software up to 10 years. Cash and cash equivalents 17,914 5,418 4,150 Restricted cash included in: Total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash in the statement Other current assets 3 26 1 Other assets 37 11 4 of cash flows 17,954 5,455 4,155 The following table provides a reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash reported in the Consolidated Investments in equity securities with a readily determinable fair value, not accounted for under the equity method, are For equity method investments, the Company regularly reviews its investments to determine whether there is a decline in fair Generally, the U.S. dollar is the functional currency for our international film and television distribution and licensing For U.S. dollar functional currency locations, foreign currency assets and liabilities are remeasured into U.S. dollars at end- For local currency functional locations, assets and liabilities are translated at end-of-period rates while revenues and expenses Inventory primarily includes vacation timeshare units, merchandise, food, materials and supplies. Carrying amounts of At the beginning of fiscal 2020, the Company adopted new FASB guidance that updates the accounting for film and The Company expenses costs incurred in the preliminary project stage of developing or acquiring internal use software, such October 3, 2020 September 28, September 29, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 120 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Parks, Resorts and Other Property generally over estimated useful lives as follows: of operating lease payments as right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet. See Note 16 for discussion of the new guidance and the Company s accounting policy. Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets if current events or circumstances require, on an interim basis. To test goodwill for impairment, the Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. If it is, a quantitative assessment is required. Alternatively, the Company may bypass the qualitative assessment and perform a quantitative impairment test. projected future cash flows of the reporting unit. the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, an impairment of goodwill is recognized for the excess up to the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. and liabilities to reporting units including goodwill, and the determination of fair value of the reporting units. To determine the fair value of our reporting units, we generally use a present value technique (discounted cash flows) corroborated by market multiples when available and as appropriate. We apply what we believe to be the most appropriate valuation methodology for each of our reporting units. The projected cash flows of our reporting units reflect intersegment revenues and expenses for the sale and use of intellectual property as if it was licensed to an unrelated third party. The discounted cash flow analyses are sensitive to our estimates of future revenue growth and margins for these businesses as well as the discount rates used to calculate the present value of future cash flows. to a greater degree of uncertainty than usual. If we had established different reporting units or utilized different valuation methodologies or assumptions, the impairment test results could differ, and we could be required to record impairment charges. determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of each of its indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeds its fair value. If it is, a quantitative assessment is required. Alternatively, the Company may bypass the qualitative assessment and perform a quantitative impairment test. conditions, and changes in projected future cash flows. carrying amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess. Fair values of indefinite-lived intangible assets are determined based on discounted cash flows or appraised values, as appropriate. The Company has determined that there are currently no legal, competitive, economic or other factors that materially limit the useful life of our FCC licenses and trademarks. periodically renew our intangible assets are expensed as incurred. Parks, resorts and other property are carried at historical cost. Depreciation is computed on the straight-line method, At the beginning of fiscal 2020, the Company adopted new FASB guidance that requires lessees to record the present value The Company is required to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and Goodwill is allocated to various reporting units, which are an operating segment or one level below the operating segment. The qualitative assessment requires consideration of recent market transactions, macroeconomic conditions, and changes in The quantitative assessment compares the fair value of each goodwill reporting unit to its carrying amount, and to the extent In fiscal 2020, the Company performed a qualitative assessment of goodwill for impairment. The impairment test for goodwill requires judgment related to the identification of reporting units, the assignment of assets In times of adverse economic conditions in the global economy, the Company s long-term cash flow projections are subject To test its other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, the Company first performs a qualitative assessment to The qualitative assessment requires the consideration of factors such as recent market transactions, macroeconomic The quantitative assessment compares the fair values of indefinite-lived intangible assets to their carrying amounts. If the Amortizable intangible assets are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over periods up to 40 years. The costs to Attractions, buildings and improvements 20 40 years Furniture, fixtures and equipment 3 25 years Land improvements 20 40 years Leasehold improvements Life of lease or asset life if less 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 121 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS circumstances (triggering events) indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Once a triggering event has occurred, the impairment test employed is based on whether the intent is to hold the asset for continued use or to hold the asset for sale. The impairment test for assets held for use requires a comparison of cash flows expected to be generated over the useful life of an asset group to the carrying amount of the asset group. An asset group is established by identifying the lowest level of cash flows generated by a group of assets that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and could include assets used across multiple businesses or segments. If the carrying amount of an asset group exceeds the estimated undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment would be measured as the difference between the fair value of the group s long-lived assets and the carrying amount of the group s long-lived assets. The impairment is allocated to the long-lived assets of the group on a pro rata basis using the relative carrying amounts, but only to the extent the carrying amount of each asset is above its fair value. For assets held for sale, to the extent the carrying amount is greater than the asset s fair value less costs to sell, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference. 2018, respectively. and goodwill ( 3.1 billion) at the International Channels business. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on these impairment charges. accounting recorded in Equity in the income (loss) of investees in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 2025 to be as follows: Risk Management Contracts and cross-currency swap agreements and forward and option contracts to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. objectives and strategies for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Company primarily enters into two types of derivatives: hedges of fair value exposure and hedges of cash flow exposure. Hedges of fair value exposure are entered into in order to hedge the fair value of a recognized asset, liability, or a firm commitment. Hedges of cash flow exposure are entered into in order to hedge a forecasted transaction (e.g. forecasted revenue) or the variability of cash flows to be paid or received, related to a recognized liability or asset (e.g. floating rate debt). liabilities. When hedged assets or liabilities are sold or extinguished or the forecasted transactions being hedged occur or are no longer expected to occur, the Company recognizes the gain or loss on the designated derivatives. classified in the income statement consistent with the accounting treatment of the items being hedged. The Company accrues the differential for interest rate swaps to be paid or received under the agreements as interest rates change as adjustments to interest expense over the lives of the swaps. Gains and losses on the termination of effective swap agreements, prior to their original maturity, are deferred and amortized to interest expense over the remaining term of the underlying hedged transactions. derivatives are intended to offset certain economic exposures of the Company and are carried at fair value with changes in value recorded in earnings. Cash flows from hedging activities are classified in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows under the same category as the cash flows from the related assets, liabilities or forecasted transactions (see Notes 9 and 18). Income Taxes items for financial reporting purposes and for income tax purposes. Where, based on the weight of available evidence, it is The Company tests long-lived assets, including amortizable intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in The Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of 5.2 billion, 0.6 billion, and 0.2 billion in fiscal 2020, 2019 and The fiscal 2020 impairment charges primarily related to impairments of MVPD agreement intangibles assets ( 1.9 billion) The fiscal 2019 and 2018 charges primarily related to impairments of investments accounted for under the equity method of The Company expects its aggregate annual amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets for fiscal 2021 through In the normal course of business, the Company employs a variety of financial instruments (derivatives) including interest rate The Company formally documents all relationships between hedges and hedged items as well as its risk management The Company designates and assigns the derivatives as hedges of forecasted transactions, specific assets or specific The Company s hedge positions are measured at fair value on the balance sheet. Realized gains and losses from hedges are The Company enters into derivatives that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting. These Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recorded with respect to temporary differences in the accounting treatment of 2021 2,055 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 122 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 123 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS more likely than not that some amount of recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized, a valuation allowance is established for the amount that, in management s judgment, is sufficient to reduce the deferred tax asset to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. threshold is defined as a tax position that is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the applicable taxing authority, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefit to be recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests interest shareholders have rights to require the Company to purchase their interests in these subsidiaries. The most significant of these are BAMTech and Hulu. Baseball (MLB) and 10% by the National Hockey League (NHL), both of which have the right to sell their interests to the Company in the future. from and ending ten years after the Company s September 25, 2017 acquisition date of BAMTech at the greater of fair value or a guaranteed floor value ( 563 million accreting at 8% annually for eight years from the date of acquisition). The NHL can sell its interest to the Company in fiscal 2021 for 350 million. The Company has the right to acquire the NHL interest in fiscal 2021 for 500 million. fair value adjusted for their share (if any) of earnings, losses, or dividends ( adjusted value ) or (ii) an accreted value from the date of the acquisition to the applicable redemption date ( accreted value ). As the accreted value is generally always higher than the adjusted value, the MLB and NHL interests are not allocated their portion of BAMTech losses. Therefore, the MLB and NHL interests are accreted to the estimated redemption value as of the earliest redemption date. As of October 3, 2020, the guaranteed floor value for the MLB interest, accreted from the date of acquisition was 710 million. The NHL previously had a right to sell its interest to the Company in fiscal 2020 for 300 million, which expired unexercised in the fourth quarter. As the NHL s remaining right to sell its interest to the Company in fiscal 2021 is for 350 million, the Company began accreting the NHL interest to 350 million. As of October 3, 2020, the accreted value of the NHL interest was 313 million. 60%. Subsequent to the acquisition, Hulu redeemed Warner Media LLC s (WM) 10% interest in Hulu. The redemption was funded by the Company and Hulu s remaining noncontrolling interest holder, NBC Universal (NBCU). This resulted in the Company s and NBCU s interests in Hulu increasing to 67% and 33%, respectively. operational control of Hulu. Under the agreement, beginning in January 2024, NBCU has the option to require the Company to purchase NBCU s interest in Hulu and the Company has the option to require NBCU to sell its interest in Hulu to the Company, based on NBCU s equity ownership percentage of the greater of Hulu s then fair value or 27.5 billion. required to be carried at a minimum value. The minimum value is equal to the fair value as of the May 13, 2019 agreement date accreted to the January 2024 estimated redemption value. At October 3, 2020, NBCU s interest in Hulu is recorded in the Company s financial statements at 8.1 billion. Company shareholders and are recorded in Net income from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling interests on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings Per Share income attributable to Disney by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS is based upon the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the year, which is calculated using the treasury-stock method for equity-based awards (Awards). Common equivalent shares are excluded from the computation in periods for which they have an anti-dilutive effect. Stock options for which the exercise price exceeds the average market price over the period are anti-dilutive and, accordingly, are excluded from the calculation. A tax position must meet a minimum probability threshold before a financial statement benefit is recognized. The minimum The Company consolidates the results of certain subsidiaries that are less than 100% owned and for which the noncontrolling BAMTech provides streaming technology services to third parties and is owned 75% by the Company, 15% by Major League MLB has the right to sell its interest to the Company and the Company has the right to buy MLB s interest starting five years The MLB and NHL interests are required to be recorded at a minimum value equal to the greater of (i) their acquisition date As part of the TFCF acquisition, the Company acquired TFCF s 30% interest in Hulu increasing our ownership in Hulu to On May 13, 2019, the Company entered into a put call agreement with NBCU that provided the Company with full NBCU s interest will generally not be allocated its portion of Hulu s losses as the redeemable noncontrolling interest is Adjustments to the carrying amount of redeemable noncontrolling interests increase or decrease income available to The Company presents both basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) amounts. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 124 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Awards excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation, as they were anti-dilutive, are as follows: Weighted average number of common and common equivalent Weighted average dilutive impact of Awards 10 8 Weighted average number of common and common equivalent Awards excluded from diluted earnings per share 35 7 12 Affiliate fees 15,018 3,673 (762) 17,929 Advertising 6,374 4 4,477 10,855 Subscription fees 7,645 7,645 Theme park admissions 4,038 4,038 Resort and vacations 3,402 3,402 Retail and wholesale sales of merchandise, TV SVOD distribution licensing 6,489 4,557 745 (5,348) 6,443 Theatrical distribution licensing 2,134 2,134 Merchandise licensing 2,674 536 32 3,242 Home entertainment 1,528 84 1,612 Other 512 1,432 881 311 3,136 Total revenues 28,393 16,502 9,636 16,967 (6,110) 65,388 Affiliate fees 13,433 2,768 (253) 15,948 Advertising 6,965 6 3,542 10,513 Subscription fees 2,115 2,115 Theme park admissions 7,540 7,540 Resort and vacations 6,266 6,266 Retail and wholesale sales of merchandise, TV SVOD distribution licensing 4,046 2,920 482 (1,705) 5,743 Theatrical distribution licensing 4,726 4,726 Merchandise licensing 2,768 561 51 3,380 Home entertainment 1,734 97 1,831 Other 383 1,929 1,186 331 3,829 Total revenues 24,827 26,225 11,127 9,386 (1,958) 69,607 food and beverage 4,952 4,952 food and beverage 7,716 7,716 shares outstanding (basic) 1,808 1,656 1,499 shares outstanding (diluted) 1,808 1,666 1,507 A reconciliation of the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding and the number of The following table presents our revenues by segment and major source: Amounts exclude all potential common and common equivalent shares for periods when there is a net loss from continuing operations. Experiences and Products Experiences and Products Entertainment Entertainment 2020 2019 2018 Consumer & International Eliminations Consolidated Consumer & International Eliminations Consolidated Direct-to- Direct-to- 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 125 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS reporting periods primarily relate to revenues earned on TV SVOD and theatrical distribution licensee sales on titles made available to the licensee in previous reporting periods. For fiscal 2020, 1.4 billion was recognized related to performance obligations satisfied as of September 28, 2019. For fiscal 2019, 1.2 billion was recognized related to performance obligations satisfied prior to September 30, 2018. which primarily relates to content to be delivered in the future under existing agreements with television station affiliates and TV SVOD licensees. Of this amount, we expect to recognize approximately 7 billion in fiscal 2021, 4 billion in fiscal 2022, 2 billion in fiscal 2023 and 3 billion thereafter. These amounts include only fixed consideration or minimum guarantees and do not include amounts related to (i) contracts with an original expected term of one year or less (such as most advertising contracts) or (ii) licenses of IP that are solely based on the sales of the licensee. services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are provided to the customer in other cases, after appropriate credit evaluations, payment is due in arrears. Advertising contracts, which are generally short term, are billed monthly with payments generally due within 30 days. Payments due under affiliate arrangements are calculated monthly and are generally due within 30 days of month end. Home entertainment terms generally require payment within 60 to 90 days of availability date to the customer. Licensing payment terms vary by contract but are generally collected in advance or over the license term. Affiliate fees 11,907 1,372 13,279 Advertising 6,586 7 1,311 7,904 Subscription fees 168 168 Theme park admissions 7,183 7,183 Resort and vacations 5,938 5,938 Retail and wholesale sales of merchandise, TV SVOD distribution licensing 3,120 2,340 105 (668) 4,897 Theatrical distribution licensing 4,303 4,303 Merchandise licensing 2,566 556 70 3,192 Home entertainment 1,647 103 1,750 Other 309 1,642 1,219 285 3,455 Total revenues 21,922 24,701 10,065 3,414 (668) 59,434 Americas 26,566 12,524 5,671 12,498 (5,267) 51,992 Europe 1,378 1,982 2,609 2,016 (652) 7,333 Asia Pacific 449 1,996 1,356 2,453 (191) 6,063 Total revenues 28,393 16,502 9,636 16,967 (6,110) 65,388 Americas 23,767 19,868 6,050 5,759 (1,639) 53,805 Europe 785 3,135 2,956 1,260 (130) 8,006 Asia Pacific 275 3,222 2,121 2,367 (189) 7,796 Total revenues 24,827 26,225 11,127 9,386 (1,958) 69,607 food and beverage 7,365 7,365 Amounts for fiscal 2018 reflect our historical accounting prior to the adoption of new revenue guidance. The following table presents our revenues by segment and primary geographical markets: Revenues recognized in the current and prior year from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous As of October 3, 2020, revenue for unsatisfied performance obligations expected to be recognized in the future is 16 billion, Payment terms vary by the type and location of our customers and the products or services offered. For certain products or Experiences and Products Experiences and Products Experiences and Products Entertainment Entertainment Entertainment Consumer & International Eliminations Consolidated Consumer & International Eliminations Consolidated Consumer & International Eliminations Consolidated Direct-to- Direct-to- Direct-to- 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 126 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS recognizes either a contract asset (customer payment is subsequent to revenue recognition and subject to the Company satisfying additional performance obligations) or deferred revenue (customer payment precedes the Company satisfying the performance obligations). Consideration due under contracts with payment in arrears is recognized as accounts receivable. Deferred revenues are recognized as (or when) the Company performs under the contract. Contract assets, accounts receivable and deferred revenues from contracts with customers are as follows: related to contract assets was not material. The allowance for credit losses increased from 375 million at September 28, 2019 to 460 million at October 3, 2020 due to additional provisions recorded in fiscal 2020. packages, licensing advances and content sales included in the deferred revenue balance at September 28, 2019. For fiscal 2019, the Company recognized revenues of 2.7 billion primarily related to theme park admissions and vacation packages and licensing and publishing advances included in the deferred revenue balance at September 30, 2018. As a result of COVID-19, the Company has allowed refunds of certain non-refundable deposits that were previously reported as deferred revenue, the most significant of which related to park admission tickets and deposits for vacation packages. Remaining deferred amounts related to these deposits are now classified in Accounts payable and other accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. historical bad debt experience in conjunction with our assessment of the financial condition of individual companies with which we do business. In times of domestic or global economic turmoil, including COVID-19, our estimates and judgments with respect to the collectability of our receivables are subject to greater uncertainty than in more stable periods. program rights and vacation club properties. These receivables are discounted to present value at an appropriate discount rate at contract inception, and the related revenues are recognized at the discounted amount. based upon a number of factors, including historical experience and the financial condition of individual companies with whom we do business. The balance of film and television program sales receivables recorded in other non-current assets, net of an immaterial allowance for credit losses, was 1.0 billion as of October 3, 2020. The activity in the allowance for credit loss for fiscal 2020 was not material. primarily on historical collection experience. Estimates of uncollectible amounts also consider the economic environment and the age of receivables. The balance of mortgage receivables recorded in other non-current assets, net of an immaterial allowance for credit losses, was 0.7 billion as of October 3, 2020. The activity in the allowance for credit loss for fiscal 2020 was not material. 4 Acquisitions TFCF Corporation entertainment company. The acquisition purchase price totaled 69.5 billion, of which the Company paid 35.7 billion in cash and 33.8 billion in Disney shares (307 million shares at a price of 110.00 per share). Contract assets 70 150 Accounts Receivable Allowance for credit losses (460) (375) Deferred revenues Current 11,340 12,755 Non-current 1,789 1,962 Current 3,688 4,050 Non-current 513 619 When the timing of the Company s revenue recognition is different from the timing of customer payments, the Company Contract assets primarily relate to certain multi-season TV SVOD licensing contracts. Activity for fiscal 2020 and 2019 For fiscal 2020, the Company recognized revenues of 3.4 billion, primarily related to theme park admissions and vacation We evaluate our allowance for credit losses and estimate collectability of accounts receivable based on our analysis of The Company has accounts receivable with original maturities greater than one year related to the sale of film and television The Company estimates the allowance for credit losses related to receivables from the sale of film and television programs The Company estimates the allowance for credit losses related to receivables from sales of its vacation club properties based On March 20, 2019, the Company acquired the outstanding capital stock of TFCF, a diversified global media and October 3, September 28, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 127 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS portfolio of creative assets and branded content to be monetized through our film and television studio, theme parks and direct-to- consumer offerings. upon closing of the acquisition or replaced with new restricted stock units (which require additional service for vesting). The purchase price for TFCF includes 361 million related to TFCF awards that were settled or replaced in connection with the acquisition, and for fiscal 2019, the Company recognized compensation expense of 164 million related to awards that were accelerated to vest upon closing of the acquisition. Additionally, compensation expense of 219 million related to awards that were replaced with new restricted stock units is being recognized over the post-acquisition service period of up to approximately two years. 60%. As a result, the Company began consolidating Hulu and recorded a one-time gain of 4.8 billion (Hulu Gain) from remeasuring our initial 30% interest to its estimated fair value, which was determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. On April 15, 2019, Hulu redeemed WM s 10% interest in Hulu for 1.4 billion. The redemption was funded by the Company and NBCU. This resulted in the Company s and NBCU s interests in Hulu increasing to 67% and 33%, respectively. Note 2 for further discussion of NBCU s interest. Century Fox America, Inc. with a principal balance of 16.8 billion (see Note 9). liabilities assumed based on their fair values. The excess of the purchase price over those fair values is recorded as goodwill. analyses. Inputs to the discounted cash flow analyses and other aspects of the allocation of purchase price require judgment. The more significant inputs used in the discounted cash flow analyses and other areas of judgment include (i) future revenue growth or attrition rates (ii) projected margins (iii) discount rates used to present value future cash flows (iv) the amount of synergies expected from the acquisition (v) the economic useful life of assets and (vi) the evaluation of historical tax positions of TFCF. networks and trade names, with a weighted average useful life of 16 years. Cash and cash equivalents 25.7 Receivables 5.1 Film and television costs 17.7 Investments 1.0 Intangible assets 17.9 Net assets held for sale 11.4 Accounts payable and other liabilities (12.5) Borrowings (21.7) Deferred income taxes (5.7) Other net liabilities acquired (4.0) Noncontrolling interests (10.4) Goodwill 49.8 Less: Disney s previously held 30% interest in Hulu (4.7) We acquired TFCF to enhance the Company s position as a premier, global entertainment company by increasing our In connection with the acquisition, outstanding TFCF performance stock units and restricted stock units were either vested As part of the TFCF acquisition, the Company acquired TFCF s 30% interest in Hulu increasing our ownership in Hulu to NBCU s interest is classified as a redeemable noncontrolling interest on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet. See Upon closing of the TFCF acquisition, the Company exchanged new Disney notes for outstanding notes issued by 21st The Company is required to allocate the TFCF purchase price to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and In determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the Company primarily used discounted cash flow The following table summarizes our allocation of the purchase price (in billions) : Intangible assets primarily consist of MVPD agreements, with a weighted average useful life of 9 years, and advertising Total may not equal the sum of the column due to rounding. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we adjusted the amount of deferred tax liabilities by 0.6 billion and recorded an offsetting adjustment to increase goodwill for this amount. Fair value of net assets acquired 74.2 Total purchase price 69.5 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 128 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS monetized through our DTC services, film and television studios and theme parks. The amount of goodwill that is deductible for tax purposes is not material. interest in Endemol Shine Group (sold in July 2020 for 147 million). contracts is 5.5 billion. Selling, general, administrative and other, and 0.1 billion related to financing fees is included in Interest expense, net in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations. amortization and excluding restructuring and impairment charges and interest income and expense) of TFCF and Hulu included in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations for fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019. In addition, the table provides the impact of intercompany eliminations of transactions between the Company, TFCF and Hulu: consolidation of Hulu had occurred on October 1, 2017: (net of adjustments to eliminate transactions between Disney and TFCF, Disney and Hulu and Hulu and TFCF). These pro formas for fiscal 2019 and 2018 include 3.1 billion and 3.4 billion (of which 0.4 billion and 0.8 billion related to the RSNs), respectively, to reflect the incremental amortization as a result of recording film and television programming and production costs and finite lived intangible assets at fair value. Interest expense of 0.4 billion and 0.5 billion is included to reflect the cost of borrowings to finance the TFCF acquisition for fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. The pro forma results also include 0.9 billion and 0.6 billion of net income attributable to Disney for fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively, related to TFCF businesses that have been or will be divested (see Note 1). equity and cash awards that were accelerated to vest upon closing of the acquisition, and 0.4 billion of acquisition-related expenses. These amounts were recognized by Disney and TFCF in fiscal 2019 but have been excluded from the fiscal 2019 pro forma results. 2018, respectively, related to its 39% interest in Sky plc, which was sold by TFCF in October 2018. TFCF (before intercompany eliminations): Hulu (before intercompany eliminations): Intercompany eliminations: Revenues 78,047 76,468 Net income 7,511 13,733 Net income attributable to Disney 7,206 13,923 Earnings per share attributable to Disney: Revenues 12,999 7,228 Net loss from continuing operations (245) (958) Revenues 7,052 2,865 Net loss from continuing operations (1,017) (695) Revenues (2,956) (1,205) Net loss from continuing operations (225) (151) Diluted 3.68 7.66 Basic 3.70 7.71 The goodwill reflects the value to Disney of increasing our global portfolio of creative assets and branded content to be The fair value of investments acquired in the acquisition primarily consist of a 30% interest in Tata Sky Limited and a 50% The fair value of the assets acquired included current trade receivables of 5.2 billion. The gross amount due under the For fiscal 2019, the Company incurred 0.3 billion of acquisition-related expenses, of which 0.2 billion is included in The following table summarizes the revenues and net loss from continuing operations (including purchase accounting The following pro forma summary presents consolidated information of the Company as if the acquisition of TFCF and These pro forma results include adjustments for purposes of consolidating the historical financial results of TFCF and Hulu Additionally, fiscal 2018 pro forma results include the Hulu Gain, compensation expense of 0.2 billion related to TFCF The pro forma results exclude a 10.8 billion gain on sale and 0.5 billion of equity earnings recorded by TFCF in 2019 and October 3, 2020 Year Ended September 28, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 129 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS on October 1, 2017, nor are they intended to be a projection of future results. 5 Other Income 6 Investments Investments, Equity Basis CTV Specialty Television, Inc. (30% ownership), Endemol Shine Group (50% ownership until sale of the interest in July 2020), Seven TV (20% ownership) and Tata Sky Limited (30% ownership). Balance at Sept. 29, 2018 15,989 4,487 7,094 3,699 31,269 Balance at Sept. 28, 2019 33,423 5,535 17,797 23,538 80,293 Balance at Oct. 3, 2020 33,991 5,550 17,795 20,353 77,689 DraftKings gain 973 Gain on sale of an investment 65 Hulu gain (see Note 4) 4,794 Insurance recoveries related to legal matters 46 38 Charge for the extinguishment of a portion of the debt originally Gain on sale of real estate, property rights and other 28 563 Investments, equity basis 2,632 2,922 Investments, other 1,271 302 assumed in the TFCF acquisition (see Note 9) (511) Acquisitions 17,434 1,048 10,711 19,892 49,085 Dispositions Other, net (8) (53) (61) Acquisitions 568 15 98 51 732 Dispositions Impairments (See Note 19) (3,074) (3,074) Currency translation adjustments and other, net (100) (162) (262) Other income, net 1,038 4,357 601 These pro forma results do not represent financial results that would have been realized had the acquisition actually occurred The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill are as follows: Other income, net is as follows: The Company recognized a non-cash gain to adjust its investment in DraftKings, Inc. to fair value (DraftKings gain). Investments consist of the following: The Company s significant equity investments primarily consist of media investments and include A E (50% ownership), Represents the acquisition of TFCF and consolidation of Hulu. Reflects updates to allocation of purchase price for the acquisition of TFCF. Experiences and Products 2020 2019 2018 Entertainment 3,903 3,224 October 3, Consumer & International Total Direct-to- September 28, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 130 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS the investees underlying net assets by approximately 0.9 billion, which represents amortizable intangible assets and goodwill arising from acquisitions. licensing of television and film programming. Revenues from these transactions were 0.3 billion, 0.5 billion and 0.8 billion in fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company defers a portion of its profits from transactions with investees and recognizes the deferred amounts as the investee expenses the programming cost. The portion that is deferred reflects our ownership interest in the investee. Investments, Other related to non-publicly traded securities without a readily determinable fair value. At September 28, 2019, the Company held 290 million of non-publicly traded securities without a readily determinable fair value. Securities held at fair value at September 28, 2019 were not material. income, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Realized gains on securities in fiscal 2020 were not material. In fiscal 2019 and 2018, realized gains, unrealized gains and losses and impairments on securities were not material. All other gains and losses on securities are reported in Interest expense, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 7 International Theme Parks interest in the operations of Shanghai Disney Resort (together, the Asia Theme Parks), which are both VIEs consolidated in the Company s financial statements. See Note 2 for the Company s policy on consolidating VIEs. In addition, the Company has 100% ownership of Disneyland Paris. The Asia Theme Parks and Disneyland Paris are collectively referred to as the International Theme Parks. Results of Operations: Revenues 7,849 9,405 9,085 Net income (loss) 1,187 133 (152) Balance Sheet Current assets 4,133 3,350 4,542 Non-current assets 6,776 9,666 9,998 Current liabilities 2,224 2,182 3,197 Non-current liabilities 3,784 5,452 4,840 Redeemable preferred stock 1,362 Shareholders equity 4,901 5,382 5,141 A summary of combined financial information for equity investments is as follows: As of October 3, 2020, the book value of the Company s equity method investments exceeded our share of the book value of The Company enters into transactions in the ordinary course of business with our equity investees, primarily related to the As of October 3, 2020, the Company has 1.1 billion of securities recorded at fair value and 215 million of net book value In fiscal 2020, the Company recognized 973 million of unrealized gains on securities recorded at fair value in Other The Company has a 48% ownership interest in the operations of Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and a 43% ownership 10,909 13,016 14,540 10,909 13,016 14,540 October 3, 2020 2019 2018 September 28, September 29, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 131 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets: Consolidated Statement of Operations for fiscal 2020: Revenues 1,805 considered in calculating earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests. 637 million used in operating activities, 756 million used in investing activities and 172 million generated from financing activities. Approximately a quarter of the cash flows used in operating activities, half of the cash flows used in investing activities and all of the cash flows generated from financing activities were for the Asia Theme Parks. Hong Kong Disneyland Resort equity interest in Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, respectively. million and 97 million, respectively. The interest rate is three month HIBOR plus 2%, and the maturity date is September 2025. The Company s loan is eliminated in consolidation. which bears interest at a rate of three month HIBOR plus 1.25% and matures in December 2023. There is no outstanding balance under the line of credit at October 3, 2020. Company and HKSAR have agreed to fund the expansion on an equal basis through equity contributions, which totaled 188 million and 160 million in fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively. To date, the Company and HKSAR have funded a total of 526 million. return on asset performance targets. The amount of additional shares HKSAR can receive is capped on both an annual and cumulative basis and could decrease the Company s equity interest by up to an additional 6 percentage points over a period no shorter than 12 years. Assuming HK 10.9 billion is contributed in the expansion, the impact to the Company s equity interest would be limited to 4 percentage points. Shanghai Disney Resort respectively. A management company, in which the Company has a 70% interest and Shendi a 30% interest, operates Shanghai Disney Resort. maturing in 2036, with early repayment permitted. The Company has also provided Shanghai Disney Resort with a 157 October 3, 2020 Cash and cash equivalents 372 655 Other current assets 91 102 Parks, resorts and other property 6,720 6,608 Other assets 191 9 Current liabilities 486 447 Borrowings - long-term 1,213 1,114 Other long-term liabilities 403 189 Costs and expenses (3,032) Equity in the loss of investees (19) Total current assets 463 757 Total assets 7,374 7,374 Total liabilities 2,102 1,750 The following table summarizes the carrying amounts of the Asia Theme Parks assets and liabilities included in the The following table summarizes the International Theme Parks revenues and costs and expenses included in the Company s Asia Theme Parks royalty and management fees of 74 million for fiscal 2020 are eliminated in consolidation, but are International Theme Parks cash flows included in the Company s fiscal 2020 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows were The Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) and the Company have a 52% and a 48% The Company and HKSAR have both provided loans to Hong Kong Disneyland Resort with outstanding balances of 145 The Company has provided Hong Kong Disneyland Resort with a revolving credit facility of HK 2.1 billion ( 271 million), Hong Kong Disneyland is undergoing a multi-year expansion estimated to cost HK 10.9 billion ( 1.4 billion). The HKSAR has the right to receive additional shares over time to the extent Hong Kong Disneyland Resort exceeds certain Shanghai Shendi (Group) Co., Ltd (Shendi) and the Company have 57% and 43% equity interests in Shanghai Disney Resort, The Company has provided Shanghai Disney Resort with loans totaling 863 million, bearing interest at rates up to 8% and September 28, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 132 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS million line of credit bearing interest at 8%. As of October 3, 2020, the total amount outstanding under the line of credit was 65 million. These balances are eliminated in consolidation. interest at rates up to 8% and maturing in 2036, with early repayment permitted. Shendi has also provided Shanghai Disney Resort with a 1.4 billion yuan (approximately 0.2 billion) line of credit bearing interest at 8%. As of October 3, 2020, the total amount outstanding under the line of credit was 0.6 billion yuan (approximately 90 million). 8 Produced and Acquired Licensed Content Costs and Advances (FASB) guidance that updates the accounting for film and television content costs. Therefore, reporting periods beginning after September 29, 2019 are presented under the new guidance, while prior periods continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting. The new guidance does the following: and is based on the means by which we derive third-party revenues from use of the content. Imputed title by title intersegment license fees that may be necessary for other purposes are established as required by those purposes. linear television networks as group assets. Content initially intended for theatrical release or for sale to third-party licensees, we generally classify as individual assets. Because the new accounting guidance is applied prospectively, the predominant monetization strategy for content released prior to the beginning of fiscal 2020 is determined based on the expected means of monetization over the remaining life of the content. Thus for example, film titles that were released theatrically and in home entertainment prior to fiscal year 2020 and are now distributed on Disney are generally considered group content. strategy relative to its initial assessment (e.g. content that was initially intended for license to a third-party is instead used on an owned DTC service). of the current period s revenues to the estimated remaining total revenues (Ultimate Revenues). For film productions, Ultimate Revenues include revenues from all sources, which may include intersegment license fees, that will be earned within ten years from the date of the initial release for theatrical films. For episodic television series, Ultimate Revenues include revenues that will be earned within ten years from delivery of the first episode, or if still in production, five years from delivery of the most recent episode, if later. Participations and residuals are expensed over the applicable product life cycle based upon the ratio of the current period s revenues to the estimated remaining total revenues for each production. example, derived from historical viewership patterns), typically resulting in an accelerated or straight-line amortization pattern. Participations and residuals are generally expensed in line with the pattern of usage. DTC services are expensed on an accelerated or straight-line basis over their useful life or over the number of times the program is expected to be aired, as appropriate. We amortize rights costs for multi-year sports programming arrangements during the applicable seasons based on the estimated relative value of each year in the arrangement. If annual contractual Shendi has provided Shanghai Disney Resort with loans totaling 7.6 billion yuan (approximately 1.1 billion), bearing At the beginning of fiscal 2020, the Company adopted, on a prospective basis, new Financial Accounting Standards Board Allows for the classification of acquired licensed television content rights as long-term assets. Previously, we reported a portion of these rights in current assets. The Company has classified approximately 3 billion of these rights as long-term in the Q1 2020 balance sheet. Advances for live programming rights made prior to the live event continue to be reported in current assets. Aligns the capitalization of production costs for episodic television content with the capitalization of production costs for theatrical content. Previously, theatrical content production costs could be fully capitalized while episodic television production costs were generally limited to the amount of contracted revenues. This change did not have a material impact on the Company s financial statements for fiscal year 2020. Introduces the concept of predominant monetization strategy to classify capitalized content costs for purposes of amortization and impairment as follows: The determination of the predominant monetization strategy is made at commencement of production on a consolidated basis For these accounting purposes, we generally classify content that is initially intended for use on our DTC services or on our The classification of content as individual or group only changes if there is a significant change to the title s monetization Production costs for content that is predominantly monetized individually will continue to be amortized based upon the ratio Production costs that are predominantly monetized as a group are amortized based on projected usage (which may be, for Licensed rights to film and television content and other programs for broadcast on our linear networks or distribution on our Individual - lifetime value is predominantly derived from third-party revenues that are directly attributable to the specific film or television title (e.g. theatrical revenues or sales to third-party television programmers). Group - lifetime value is predominantly derived from third-party revenues that are attributable only to a bundle of titles (e.g. subscription revenue for a DTC service or affiliate fees for a cable television network). 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 133 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 134 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS payments related to each season approximate each season s estimated relative value, we expense the related contractual payments during the applicable season. acquisition. Acquired film and television libraries include content that was initially released three years prior to its acquisition, except it excludes the prior seasons of episodic television programming still in production at the date of its acquisition. that is predominantly monetized individually, the unamortized costs are compared to the estimated fair value. The fair value is determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis of the cash flows directly attributable to the title. To the extent the unamortized costs exceed the fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. For content that is predominantly monetized as a group, the aggregate unamortized costs of the group are compared to the present value of the discounted cash flows using the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are independent of other produced and licensed content. If the unamortized costs exceed the present value of discounted cash flows, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess and allocated to individual titles based on the relative carrying value of each title in the group. If there are no plans to continue to use an individual film or television program that is part of a group, the unamortized cost of the individual title is written-off immediately. Licensed content is included as part of the group within which it is monetized for purposes of assessing recoverability. Produced and acquired library content Licensed content - Programming rights and advances 6,597 Total produced, licensed and acquired library content 27,193 Current portion 2,171 Non-current portion 25,022 Theatrical film costs 1,711 962 2,673 Television costs 2,594 4,070 6,664 Licensed content - Programming rights and advances 11,241 Theatrical film costs Television costs Total produced and acquired library content costs 4,305 5,032 9,337 Total produced, licensed and acquired library content costs 20,578 Released, less amortization 3,000 2,601 5,601 Completed, not released 522 210 732 In-process 3,322 259 3,581 In development or pre-production 262 16 278 Released, less amortization 2,090 5,584 7,674 Completed, not released 33 510 543 In-process 263 1,831 2,094 In development or pre-production 6 87 93 Acquired film and television libraries are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over 20 years from the date of The costs of produced and licensed film and television content are subject to regular recoverability assessments. For content Total capitalized produced, licensed and acquired library content by predominant monetization strategy is as follows: Amortization of produced, licensed and acquired library content is as follows: Primarily included in Costs of services in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 7,106 3,086 10,192 2,392 8,012 10,404 Predominantly Monetized Individually Predominantly Monetized Individually Year Ended October 3, 2020 As of October 3, 2020 Predominantly Predominantly Monetized as a Group Total Monetized as a Group Total 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 135 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 136 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS content on the balance sheet as of October 3, 2020 is as follows: generally being amortized straight-line over a weighted-average remaining period of approximately 18 years. Produced content Licensed content - Television programming rights and advances Theatrical film costs Television costs Completed, not released Completed, not released Amortization of produced, licensed and acquired library content for the year ended September 28, 2019 was 17.1 billion. Total expected amortization by fiscal year of completed (released and not released) produced, licensed and acquired library Approximately 2.3 billion of accrued participations and residual liabilities will be paid in fiscal 2021. At October 3, 2020, acquired film and television libraries have remaining unamortized costs of 3.7 billion, which are 2021 731 460 1,191 2022 347 387 734 2023 195 207 402 2021 488 8 496 2021 893 1,476 2,369 2022 460 892 1,352 2023 286 570 856 2021 4 182 186 2021 3,882 3,882 2022 1,338 1,338 2023 606 606 Predominantly Monetized Individually Predominantly Monetized as a Group Total 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 137 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS 9 Borrowings Commercial Paper allow for borrowings at LIBOR-based rates plus a spread depending on the credit default swap spread applicable to the Company s debt, or a fixed spread in the case of the facility expiring in April 2021, subject to a cap and floor that vary with the Company s debt rating assigned by Moody s Investors Service and Standard & Poor s. The spread above LIBOR can range from 0.18% to 1.80%. The bank facilities specifically exclude certain entities, including the Asia Theme Parks, from any representations, covenants or events of default. The bank facilities contain only one financial covenant, which is interest coverage of three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, including both intangible amortization and amortization of our film and television production and programming costs. On October 3, 2020 the financial covenant was met by a significant margin. The Company also has the ability to issue up to 500 million of letters of credit under the facility expiring in March 2023, which if utilized, reduces available borrowings under this facility. As of October 3, 2020, the Company has 988 million of outstanding letters of credit, of which none were issued under this facility. October 3, 2020 Oct. 3, 2020 Commercial paper 2,023 5,342 0.96% U.S. dollar denominated notes 52,736 39,424 3.81% 13,875 3.08% 2021-2031 Foreign currency denominated debt 1,983 1,044 2.99% 1,920 2.47% 2027 Other 583 62 Asia Theme Parks borrowings 1,303 1,114 2.11% 5.51% Total borrowings 58,628 46,986 3.57% 15,795 3.04% Less current portion 5,711 8,857 3.24% 750 2.76% Total long-term borrowings 52,917 38,129 15,045 Facility expiring March 2021 5,250 5,250 Facility expiring April 2021 5,000 5,000 Facility expiring March 2023 4,000 4,000 Facility expiring March 2025 3,000 3,000 Total 17,250 17,250 The Company s borrowings, including the impact of interest rate and cross-currency swaps, are summarized as follows: At October 3, 2020, the Company s bank facilities, which are with a syndicate of lenders, were as follows: These bank facilities (other than the facility expiring April 2021) support commercial paper borrowings. All of the facilities The stated interest rate represents the weighted-average coupon rate for each category of borrowings. For floating rate borrowings, interest rates are the rates in effect at October 3, 2020 these rates are not necessarily an indication of future interest rates. Amounts represent notional values of interest rate and cross-currency swaps outstanding as of October 3, 2020. The effective interest rate includes the impact of existing and terminated interest rate and cross-currency swaps, purchase accounting adjustments and debt issuance premiums, discounts and costs. Includes net debt issuance discounts, costs and purchase accounting adjustments totaling a net premium of 2.2 billion and a net premium of 2.5 billion at October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019, respectively. Includes market value adjustments for debt with qualifying hedges, which increase borrowings by 509 million and 31 million at October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019, respectively. 57,325 45,872 3.64% 15,795 2.98% Stated Interest Rate Interest rate and Pay Floating Currency Swaps Effective Interest Rate Maturities 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 138 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS U.S. Dollar Denominated Notes years. The debt outstanding includes 51.2 billion of fixed rate notes, which have stated interest rates that range from 1.65% to 9.50% and 1.5 billion of floating rate notes that bear interest at U.S. LIBOR plus or minus a spread. At October 3, 2020, the effective rate on the floating rate notes was 0.61%. upon completion of the TFCF acquisition. On March 20, 2019, 96% (principal balance of 16.8 billion) of the assumed debt was exchanged for senior notes of TWDC, with essentially the same terms. In September 2019, the Company repurchased previously exchanged debt with a carrying value of approximately 3.5 billion (principal balance of approximately 2.7 billion) and TFCF debt with a carrying value of approximately 280 million (principal balance of approximately 260 million) for 4.3 billion and recognized a charge of 511 million in Other income, net in the fiscal 2019 Consolidated Statement of Operations. Foreign Currency Denominated Debt 2.76% and matures in October 2024. The Company also entered into pay-floating interest rate and cross currency swaps that effectively convert the borrowing to a variable rate U.S. dollar denominated borrowing indexed to LIBOR. 3.057% and mature in March 2027. The Company also entered into pay-floating interest rate and cross currency swaps that effectively convert the borrowing to a variable rate U.S. dollar denominated borrowing indexed to LIBOR. In August 2019, the RSN was sold and the buyer has assumed the outstanding debt obligation. Credit Facilities to Acquire TFCF syndicate to fund the cash component of the TFCF acquisition. On March 21, 2019, the Company repaid one bridge loan facility in the amount of 16.1 billion, utilizing cash acquired in the TFCF transaction, and terminated the facility. The remaining 364-day unsecured bridge loan facility in the amount of 15.0 billion was repaid and terminated during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 using the after-tax proceeds from the divestiture of the RSNs and proceeds from new borrowings. Cruise Ship Credit Facilities scheduled to be delivered in 2021, 2022 and 2023. The impact of COVID-19 on the shipyard has resulted in a delay to the delivery of the cruise ships, which are now scheduled to be delivered in 2022, 2024 and 2025. As a result, the Company revised the availability periods for the credit facilities. Under the facilities, 1.0 billion in financing is available beginning in October 2021, 1.1 billion is available beginning in August 2023 and 1.1 billion is available beginning in August 2024. Each tranche of financing may be utilized for a period of 18 months from the initial availability date. If utilized, the interest rates will Balance at Sept. 29, 2018 50 955 1,005 Balance at Sept. 28, 2019 1,934 3,408 5,342 Balance at Oct. 3, 2020 2,023 2,023 Additions 1,881 6,889 8,770 Payments (4,452) (4,452) Other Activity 3 16 19 Additions 11,500 11,500 Payments (1,961) (12,893) (14,854) Other Activity 27 8 35 Commercial paper activity is as follows: At October 3, 2020, the Company had 52.7 billion of U.S. dollar denominated notes with maturities ranging from 1 to 76 On March 20, 2019, the Company assumed public debt with a fair value of 21.2 billion (principal balance of 17.4 billion) In fiscal 2018, the Company issued Canadian 1.3 billion ( 0.9 billion) of fixed rate senior notes, which bears interest at On March 30, 2020, the Company issued Canadian 1.3 billion ( 1.0 billion) of fixed rate senior notes, which bear interest at On March 20, 2019, as part of the TFCF acquisition, the Company assumed 1.1 billion of debt related to one of the RSNs. On March 20, 2019, the Company borrowed 31.1 billion under two 364-day unsecured bridge loan facilities with a bank The Company has credit facilities to finance up to 80% of the contract price of three new cruise ships, which were originally Borrowings and reductions of borrowings are reported net. maturities less months, net Commercial paper with than three maturities greater than three months Total Commercial paper with 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 139 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS be fixed at 3.48%, 3.80% and 3.74%, respectively, and the loan and interest will be payable semi-annually over a 12-year period from the borrowing date. Early repayment is permitted subject to cancellation fees. Asia Theme Parks Borrowings month HIBOR plus 2%, and the maturity date is September 2025. at rates up to 8% and maturing in 2036, with early repayment permitted. Shendi has also provided Shanghai Disney Resort with a 1.4 billion yuan (approximately 0.2 billion) line of credit bearing interest at 8%. As of October 3, 2020 the total amount outstanding under the line of credit was 0.6 billion yuan (approximately 90 million). scheduled maturities: productions. In fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, total interest capitalized was 157 million, 222 million and 125 million, respectively. Interest expense, net of capitalized interest, for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 1,647 million, 1,246 million and 682 million, respectively. 10 Income Taxes U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act significant impacts on the Company are as follows: Fiscal Year: 2021 5,620 92 5,712 2022 3,858 3,858 2023 1,242 1,242 2024 2,869 2,869 2025 3,640 3,640 Thereafter 37,387 1,211 38,598 HKSAR provided Hong Kong Disneyland Resort with loans totaling HK 0.8 billion ( 97 million). The interest rate is three Shendi has provided Shanghai Disney Resort with loans totaling 7.6 billion yuan (approximately 1.1 billion) bearing interest Total borrowings, excluding market value adjustments and debt issuance premiums, discounts and costs, have the following The Company capitalizes interest on assets constructed for its parks and resorts and on certain film and television In December 2017, new federal income tax legislation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act), was signed into law. The most Effective January 1, 2018, the U.S. corporate federal statutory income tax rate was reduced from 35.0% to 21.0%. Because of our fiscal year end, the Company s fiscal 2018 statutory federal tax rate was 24.5% and is 21.0% in fiscal 2019 and thereafter. The Company remeasured its U.S. federal deferred tax assets and liabilities at the rate that the Company expects to be in effect when those deferred taxes will be realized (either 24.5% for fiscal 2018 or 21.0% thereafter) (Deferred Remeasurement). In fiscal 2018, the Company recognized a benefit of approximately 2.2 billion from the Deferred Remeasurement. A one-time tax was due on certain accumulated foreign earnings (Deemed Repatriation Tax), payable over eight years beginning in fiscal 2018. The effective tax rate was generally 15.5% on the portion of the earnings held in cash and cash equivalents and 8% on the remainder. In fiscal 2018, the Company recognized a charge for the Deemed Repatriation Tax of approximately 0.4 billion. Generally there will no longer be a U.S. federal income tax cost arising from the repatriation of foreign earnings. The Company will generally be eligible to claim an immediate deduction for investments in qualified fixed assets acquired and film and television productions commenced after September 27, 2017 and placed in service by the end of fiscal 2022. The immediate deduction phases out for assets placed in service in fiscal years 2023 through 2027. The domestic production activity deduction was eliminated in fiscal 2019 and thereafter. Starting in fiscal 2019, certain foreign derived income may be taxed in the U.S. at an effective rate of approximately 13% (which increases to approximately 16% in 2025) rather than the general statutory rate of 21%. 54,616 1,303 55,919 Consolidation Theme Parks Theme Parks Total 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 140 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Provision for Income Taxes and Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes Domestic (including U.S. exports) 4,706 12,389 12,914 Foreign subsidiaries (6,449) 1,534 1,815 Total income (loss) from continuing operations (1,743) 13,923 14,729 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (42) 726 Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Current 2020 2019 2018 Income tax expense from continuing operations 699 3,026 1,663 Income tax expense from discontinued operations (10) 39 Federal 95 14 2,240 State 148 112 362 Foreign 731 824 642 Federal 279 1,829 (1,577) State (29) 259 (20) Foreign (525) (12) 16 Starting in fiscal 2019, certain foreign earnings may be taxed at a minimum effective rate of approximately 13% (which increases to approximately 16% in 2025). The Company s policy is to expense the tax on these earnings in the period the earnings are taxable in the U.S. Includes goodwill and intangible asset impairment in fiscal 2020. Includes foreign withholding taxes. Includes the Tax Act Deferred Remeasurement in fiscal 2018. Includes the tax effect of the intangible impairment in fiscal 2020. (1,785) 14,649 14,729 689 3,065 1,663 2020 2019 2018 (275) 2,076 (1,581) 974 950 3,244 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 141 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Reconciliation of the effective income tax rate to the federal rate for continuing operations Components of Deferred Tax (Assets) and Liabilities October 3, 2020 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Net deferred tax liability before valuation allowance 4,549 5,580 Valuation allowance 2,410 1,912 Net deferred tax liability 6,959 7,492 Year ended October 3, 2020 1.9 0.6 (0.1) 2.4 Year ended September 28, 2019 1.4 (0.1) 0.6 1.9 Year ended September 29, 2018 1.7 (0.3) 1.4 Federal income tax rate 21.0 % 21.0 % 24.5 % State taxes, net of federal benefit 3.4 2.2 1.9 Foreign derived income (1.1) Domestic production activity deduction (1.4) Goodwill impairment (41.1) Earnings in jurisdictions taxed at rates different from the Legislative changes 4.4 (0.3) (11.5) Valuation allowance (14.6) 0.1 0.4 Other, including tax reserves and related interest (0.3) (1.5) Net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards (3,137) (2,181) Accrued liabilities (2,952) (2,575) Lease liabilities (825) (23) Other (652) (540) Depreciable, amortizable and other property 8,574 7,710 Investment in U.S. entities 1,956 2,258 Right-of-use assets 740 Licensing revenues 189 573 Investment in foreign entities 266 146 Other 390 212 statutory U.S. federal rate (13.2) 0.1 (1.1) Total deferred tax assets (7,566) (5,319) Total deferred tax liabilities 12,115 10,899 The following table details the change in valuation allowance for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in billions): As of October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019, includes approximately 1.4 billion and 1.0 billion, respectively, of International Theme Park net operating losses and approximately 0.7 billion and 0.2 billion, respectively of foreign tax credits in the U.S. The International Theme Park net operating losses are primarily in France and, to a lesser extent, Hong Kong and China. Losses in France and Hong Kong have an indefinite carryforward period and losses in China have a five-year carryforward period. Foreign tax credits in the U.S. have a ten-year carryforward period. Beginning of Balance at Charges to Tax 2020 2019 2018 (40.1 %) 21.7 % 11.3 % Changes Due to Acquisition September 28, Balance at End 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 142 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Unrecognized tax benefits interest, is as follows: recognized, would reduce our income tax expense and effective tax rate. These amounts are net of the offsetting benefits from other tax jurisdictions. billion, respectively, in accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits. During fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded additional interest and penalties of 211 million, 802 million (of which the substantial majority is due to the acquisition of TFCF) and 47 million, respectively, and recorded reductions in accrued interest and penalties of 101 million, 96 million and 100 million, respectively, as a result of audit settlements and other prior-year adjustments. The Company s policy is to report interest and penalties as a component of income tax expense. years prior to 2014 for TFCF. The Company is no longer subject to examination in any of its major state or foreign tax jurisdictions for years prior to 2008. certain tax matters, which could include payments on those tax matters. These resolutions and payments could reduce our unrecognized tax benefits by 334 million. Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset (other than inventory) when the transfer occurs instead of when the asset is ultimately sold to an outside party. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company recorded a 0.2 billion deferred tax asset with an offsetting increase to retained earnings. respectively for the excess of equity-based compensation deductions over amounts recorded based on the grant date fair value. 11 Pension and Other Benefit Programs union or industry-wide plans. The Company has defined benefit pension plans that cover employees hired prior to January 1, 2012. For employees hired after this date, the Company has a defined contribution plan. Benefits under these pension plans are generally based on years of service and or compensation and generally require 3 years of vesting service. Employees generally hired after January 1, 1987 for certain of our media businesses and other employees generally hired after January 1, 1994 are not eligible for postretirement medical benefits. Defined Benefit Plans postretirement medical benefit plans at September 30 and adjusts for any plan contributions or significant events between September 30 and our fiscal year end. million ( 824 million in obligations and 587 million in plan assets). Balance at the beginning of the year 2,952 648 832 Balance at the end of the year 2,740 2,952 648 Increases for current year tax positions 26 84 64 Increases for prior year tax positions 134 143 48 Decreases in prior year tax positions (99) (61) (135) Settlements with taxing authorities (307) (590) (161) Increases due to acquisitions 34 2,728 A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding the related accrual for The fiscal year-end 2020, 2019 and 2018 balances include 2.1 billion, 2.4 billion and 0.5 billion, respectively, that if At October 3, 2020, September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, the Company had 1.1 billion, 1.0 billion and 0.2 The Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal examination for years prior to 2017 for The Walt Disney Company and for In the next twelve months, it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits could change due to the resolution of At the beginning of fiscal 2019, the Company adopted new FASB accounting guidance that requires recognition of the In fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized income tax benefits of 64 million, 41 million and 52 million, The Company maintains pension and postretirement medical benefit plans covering certain of its employees not covered by In addition, the Company has a defined benefit plan for TFCF employees for which benefits stopped accruing in June 2017. The Company measures the actuarial value of its benefit obligations and plan assets for its defined benefit pension and In connection with our fiscal 2019 acquisition of TFCF, we assumed net pension and postretirement obligations of 237 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 143 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 144 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS defined benefit pension and postretirement medical benefit plans: pension and postretirement benefit cost ( net periodic benefit cost ). This guidance requires the Company to present the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost in the same line items on the statement of operations as other compensation costs of the related employees (i.e. Costs and expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations). All of the other components of net periodic benefit cost ( other costs benefits ) are presented as a component of Interest expense, Pension Plans Postretirement Medical Plans Projected benefit obligations Fair value of plans assets Underfunded status of the plans (5,162) (3,653) (1,333) (1,184) Amounts recognized in the balance sheet Pension Plans Postretirement Medical Plans 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 Service cost 410 345 350 10 8 10 Other costs (benefits): Total other costs (benefits) (113) (51) 13 11 21 Net periodic benefit cost 410 232 299 23 19 31 Beginning obligations (18,531) (14,500) (1,946) (1,609) Acquisition of TFCF (759) (65) Service cost (410) (345) (10) (8) Interest cost (527) (592) (56) (67) Actuarial loss (1,958) (2,923) (127) (234) Plan amendments and other 1 32 (12) (11) Benefits paid 662 534 47 48 Curtailments 3 22 Ending obligations (20,760) (18,531) (2,104) (1,946) Beginning fair value 14,878 12,728 762 731 Acquisition of TFCF 587 Actual return on plan assets 770 690 38 33 Contributions 664 1,461 9 37 Benefits paid (662) (534) (47) (48) Expenses and other (52) (54) 9 9 Ending fair value 15,598 14,878 771 762 Non-current assets 20 5 Current liabilities (59) (54) (5) (5) Non-current liabilities (5,123) (3,604) (1,328) (1,179) Interest cost 527 592 489 56 67 60 Expected return on plan assets (1,084) (978) (901) (57) (56) (53) Amortization of prior-year service costs 13 13 13 Recognized net actuarial loss 544 260 348 14 14 The following chart summarizes the benefit obligations, assets, funded status and balance sheet impacts associated with the The components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows: In fiscal 2019, the Company adopted new FASB accounting guidance on the presentation of the components of net periodic The actuarial loss for both fiscal 2020 and 2019 was primarily due to a reduction in the discount rate from the rate that was used in the preceding fiscal year. (5,162) (3,653) (1,333) (1,184) October 3, September 28, October 3, September 28, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 145 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The other costs benefits in fiscal 2018 were not material and are reported in Costs and expenses . impacts of updated mortality assumptions and a lower discount rate. benefit cost: Plan Funded Status with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were 19.5 billion, 18.1 billion and 14.4 billion, respectively, as of October 3, 2020 and 17.5 billion, 16.1 billion and 13.9 billion, respectively, as of September 28, 2019. fair value of plan assets were 19.8 billion and 14.6 billion, respectively, as of October 3, 2020 and 18.5 billion and 14.8 billion respectively, as of September 28, 2019. and 17.0 billion, respectively. Approximately 98% was vested as of both October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019. with accumulated postretirement medical benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were 2.1 billion and 0.8 billion, respectively, at October 3, 2020 and 1.9 billion and 0.8 billion, respectively, at September 28, 2019. Plan Assets investment policy and allocation of the assets in the master trusts were approved by the Company s Investment and Pension Plans Postretirement Medical Plans 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 Rate of return on plan assets 7.00 % 7.25 % 7.50 % 7.00 % 7.25 % 7.50 % Year 1 increase in cost of benefits n a n a n a 7.00 % 7.00 % 7.00 % Prior service cost 27 27 Net actuarial loss 8,915 429 9,344 Total amounts included in AOCI 8,942 429 9,371 Prepaid (accrued) pension cost (3,780) 904 (2,876) Net balance sheet liability 5,162 1,333 6,495 Discount rate used to determine the fiscal year end benefit obligation 2.82 % 3.22 % 4.31 % 2.80 % 3.22 % 4.31 % Discount rate used to determine the interest cost component of net periodic benefit cost 2.94 % 4.09 % 3.46 % 2.95 % 4.10 % 3.49 % Weighted average rate of compensation increase to determine the fiscal year end benefit obligation 3.20 % 3.20 % 3.20 % n a n a n a Rate of increase to which the cost of benefits is assumed to decline (the ultimate trend rate) n a n a n a 4.25 % 4.25 % 4.25 % Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate n a n a n a 2034 2033 2032 In fiscal 2021, we expect pension and postretirement medical costs to increase by 143 million to 576 million due to the AOCI, before tax, as of October 3, 2020 consists of the following amounts that have not yet been recognized in net periodic The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and aggregate fair value of plan assets for pension plans For pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, the projected benefit obligation and aggregate The Company s total accumulated pension benefit obligations at October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019 were 19.1 billion The accumulated postretirement medical benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets for postretirement medical plans A significant portion of the assets of the Company s defined benefit plans are managed in third-party master trusts. The Key assumptions are as Pension Plans Postretirement Medical Plans Total 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 146 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Administrative Committee, which has oversight responsibility for the Company s retirement plans. The investment policy ranges for the major asset classes are as follows: Asset Class Minimum Maximum assets to satisfy benefit obligations to plan participants. Financial risks are managed through diversification of plan assets, selection of investment managers and through the investment guidelines incorporated in investment management agreements. Investments are monitored to assess whether returns are commensurate with risks taken. include, but are not limited to, the average age of participants, the number of retirees, the duration of liabilities and the expected payout ratio. Liquidity needs of the master trusts are generally managed using cash generated by investments or by liquidating securities. establish permitted securities and risk controls commensurate with the account s investment strategy. Some agreements permit the use of derivative securities (futures, options, interest rate swaps, credit default swaps) that enable investment managers to enhance returns and manage exposures within their accounts. Fair Value Measurements of Plan Assets transaction between market participants and is generally classified in one of the following categories of the fair value hierarchy: value hierarchy disclosure. at October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019 are the same. common and preferred stocks are valued based on an exchange-listed price or a broker s quote in an active market. Investments in U.S. Treasury securities are valued based on a broker s quote in an active market. asset-backed securities are valued using a broker s quote in a non-active market or an evaluated price based on a compilation of reported market information, such as benchmark yield curves, credit spreads and estimated default rates. Derivative financial instruments are valued based on models that incorporate observable inputs for the underlying securities, such as interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. Equity investments 30% 60% Fixed income investments 20% 40% Alternative investments 10% 30% Cash & money market funds % 10% The primary investment objective for the assets within the master trusts is the prudent and cost effective management of The long-term asset allocation policy for the master trusts was established taking into consideration a variety of factors that Assets are generally managed by external investment managers pursuant to investment management agreements that Fair value is defined as the amount that would be received for selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly Level 1 Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets Level 2 Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in Level 3 Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers Investments that are valued using the net asset value (NAV) (or its equivalent) practical expedient are excluded from the fair The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for assets reported at fair value. The methodologies used Level 1 investments are valued based on reported market prices on the last trading day of the fiscal year. Investments in Level 2 investments in government and federal agency bonds, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and markets that are not active and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets are unobservable 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 147 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Uncalled Capital Commitments investors. In such cases, the master trust would be contractually obligated to make a cash contribution at the time of the capital call. At October 3, 2020, the total committed capital still uncalled and unpaid was 1.0 billion. Plan Contributions Company currently expects to make approximately 500 million to 600 million in pension and postretirement medical plan contributions in fiscal 2021. Final minimum funding requirements for fiscal 2021 will be determined based on a January 1, 2021 funding actuarial valuation, which is expected to be received during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. Cash 207 207 1% Common and preferred stocks 3,308 3,308 20% Mutual funds 1,154 1,154 7% Government and federal agency bonds, notes Corporate bonds 935 935 6% Other mortgage- and asset-backed securities 106 106 1% Derivatives and other, net (2) 7 5 % Total investments in the fair value hierarchy 6,993 1,402 8,395 Assets valued at NAV as a practical expedient: Total investments at fair value 16,369 100% Cash 197 197 1% Common and preferred stocks 3,468 3,468 22% Mutual funds 1,140 1,140 7% Government and federal agency bonds, notes Corporate bonds 580 580 4% Other mortgage- and asset-backed securities 127 127 1% Derivatives and other, net (6) (21) (27) % Total investments in the fair value hierarchy 6,841 1,090 7,931 Assets valued at NAV as a practical expedient: Total investments at fair value 15,640 100% Common collective funds 3,993 24% Alternative investments 3,375 21% Money market funds and other 606 4% Common collective funds 3,691 24% Alternative investments 2,725 17% Money market funds and other 1,293 8% The Company s defined benefit plan assets are summarized by level in the following tables: Alternative investments held by the master trust include interests in funds that have rights to make capital calls to the During fiscal 2020, the Company made 673 million of contributions to its pension and postretirement medical plans. The Includes 2.9 million shares of Company common stock valued at 355 million (2% of total plan assets) and 2.9 million shares valued at 373 million (2% of total plan assets) at October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019, respectively. Description Level 1 Level 2 Total Plan Asset Mix Description Level 1 Level 2 Total Plan Asset Mix 2,326 354 2,680 16% 2,042 404 2,446 16% As of September 28, 2019 As of October 3, 2020 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 148 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Estimated Future Benefit Payments Assumptions significant effect on the amounts reported for net periodic benefit cost as well as the related benefit obligations. quality corporate bonds currently available. The Company s discount rate was determined by considering yield curves constructed of a large population of high-quality corporate bonds and reflects the matching of the plans liability cash flows to the yield curves. The Company measures service and interest costs by applying the specific spot rates along that yield curve to the plans liability cash flows. returns on an investment portfolio consisting of a mixture of equities, fixed income and alternative investments. When determining the long-term rate of return on plan assets, the Company considers long-term rates of return on the asset classes (both historical and forecasted) in which the Company expects the pension funds to be invested. The following long-term rates of return by asset class were considered in setting the long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption: determine the healthcare cost trend rates for the postretirement medical benefit plans. The 2020 actuarial valuation assumed a 7.00% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered healthcare claims with the rate decreasing in even increments over fourteen years until reaching 4.25%. would have the following effects on the projected benefit obligations for pension and postretirement medical plans as of October 3, 2020 and on cost for fiscal 2021: Multiemployer Benefit Plans agreements that cover our union-represented employees and expenses its contributions to these plans as incurred. These plans generally provide for retirement, death and or termination benefits for eligible employees within the applicable collective bargaining units, based on specific eligibility participation requirements, vesting periods and benefit formulas. The risks of participating in these multiemployer plans are different from single-employer plans. For example: 2021 678 59 2026 2030 4,433 446 Discount Rate Increase (decrease) 1 ppt decrease 351 3,988 164 1 ppt increase (303) (3,380) (164) Assets contributed to the multiemployer plan by one employer may be used to provide benefits to employees of other participating employers. The following table presents estimated future benefit payments for the next ten fiscal years: Assumptions, such as discount rates, long-term rate of return on plan assets and the healthcare cost trend rate, have a Discount Rate The assumed discount rate for pension and postretirement medical plans reflects the market rates for high- Long-term rate of return on plan assets The long-term rate of return on plan assets represents an estimate of long-term Healthcare cost trend rate The Company reviews external data and its own historical trends for healthcare costs to Sensitivity A one percentage point (ppt) change in the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets The Company participates in a number of multiemployer pension plans under union and industry-wide collective bargaining Estimated future benefit payments are net of expected Medicare subsidy receipts of 85 million. Equity Securities 6 % to 10 % Debt Securities 2 % to 4 % Alternative Investments 6 % to 11 % Benefit Expense Projected Benefit Obligations Rate of Return On Assets Expected Long-Term Postretirement Medical Plans Benefit Expense 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 149 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS employees. Health care benefits are provided to participants who meet certain eligibility requirements under the applicable collective bargaining unit. Defined Contribution Plans and are not eligible to participate in the defined benefit pension plans. In general, the Company contributes from 3% to 9% of an employee s compensation depending on the employee s age and years of service with the Company up to plan limits. The Company has savings and investment plans that allow eligible employees to contribute up to 50% of their salary through payroll deductions depending on the plan in which the employee participates. The Company matches 50% of the employee s contribution up to plan limits. In fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, the costs of these defined contribution plans were 217 million, 208 million and 162 million, respectively. The Company also has defined contribution retirement plans for employees in our international operations. The costs of these defined contribution plans were 25 million, 25 million and 21 million in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. (formerly known as The Walt Disney Company and referred to herein as Legacy Disney). TWDC issued 307 million shares of common stock to acquire TFCF (see Note 4), and all the outstanding shares of Legacy Disney (other than shares of Legacy Disney held in treasury that were not held on behalf of a third party) were converted on a one-for-one basis into new publicly traded shares of TWDC. resulted in a decrease to common stock and retained earnings of 17.6 billion and 49.1 billion, respectively. The cost of treasury shares canceled was allocated to common stock based on the ratio of treasury shares to total shares outstanding, with the excess allocated to retained earnings. At October 3, 2020, TWDC held 19 million treasury shares. at 0.01 par value, both of which represent the same authorized capital structure in effect prior to the completion of the TFCF acquisition and as of September 29, 2018. As of September 29, 2018, Legacy Disney had 40 thousand preferred series B shares authorized with 0.01 par value, which were eliminated in fiscal 2019. Pension plans 221 189 144 Health & welfare plans 217 218 172 Total contributions 438 407 316 If a participating employer stops contributing to the multiemployer plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may become the obligation of the remaining participating employers. If a participating employer chooses to stop participating in these multiemployer plans, the employer may be required to pay those plans an amount based on the underfunded status of the plan. The Company also participates in several multiemployer health and welfare plans that cover both active and retired The following table sets forth our contributions to multiemployer pension and health and welfare benefit plans: The Company has defined contribution retirement plans for domestic employees who began service after December 31, 2011 The Company paid the following dividends in fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018: The Board of Directors did not declare a dividend with respect to fiscal year 2020 operations. As a result of the acquisition of TFCF, TWDC became the parent entity of both TFCF and TWDC Enterprises 18 Corp. In March 2019, Legacy Disney terminated its share repurchase program, and 1.4 billion treasury shares were canceled, which TWDC s authorized share capital consists of 4.6 billion common shares at 0.01 par value and 100 million preferred shares In fiscal 2018, the Company repurchased 35 million shares of its common stock for 3.6 billion. Per Share Total Paid Payment Timing Related to Fiscal Period 0.88 1.6 billion Second Quarter of Fiscal 2020 Second Half 2019 0.88 1.6 billion Fourth Quarter of Fiscal 2019 First Half 2019 0.88 1.3 billion Second Quarter of Fiscal 2019 Second Half 2018 0.84 1.2 billion Fourth Quarter of Fiscal 2018 First Half 2018 0.84 1.3 billion Second Quarter of Fiscal 2018 Second Half 2017 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 150 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS including our proportional share of equity method investee amounts: AOCI, before tax Balance at September 30, 2017 (93) (4,906) (523) (5,522) Unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period 259 203 (204) 258 Reclassifications of net (gains) losses to net income 35 380 415 Balance at September 29, 2018 201 (4,323) (727) (4,849) Unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period 136 (3,457) (359) (3,680) Reclassifications of net (gains) losses to net income (185) 278 93 Reclassifications to retained earnings (23) (23) Balance at September 28, 2019 129 (7,502) (1,086) (8,459) Unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period (57) (2,468) (2) (2,527) Reclassifications of net (gains) losses to net income (263) 547 284 Balance at October 3, 2020 (191) (9,423) (1,088) (10,702) Tax on AOCI Balance at September 30, 2017 39 1,839 116 1,994 Unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period (68) (47) (13) (128) Reclassifications of net (gains) losses to net income (12) (102) (114) Balance at September 29, 2018 (41) 1,690 103 1,752 Unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period (31) 797 28 794 Reclassifications of net (gains) losses to net income 43 (64) (21) Reclassifications to retained earnings (667) (16) (683) Balance at September 28, 2019 (29) 1,756 115 1,842 Unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period 8 572 24 604 Reclassifications of net (gains) losses to net income 61 (127) (66) Balance at October 3, 2020 40 2,201 139 2,380 The following table summarizes the changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) Market Value Adjustments Market Value Adjustments Postretirement Postretirement Unrecognized Pension and Unrecognized Pension and Translation Translation and Other AOCI and Other AOCI Foreign Currency Foreign Currency 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 151 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS 13 Equity-Based Compensation creative personnel. The Company s approach to long-term incentive compensation contemplates awards of stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs). Certain RSUs awarded to senior executives vest based upon the achievement of market or performance conditions (Performance RSUs). exercisable ratably over a four-year period from the grant date. The contractual terms for our outstanding stock option grants are 10 years. At the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Company s Board of Directors, options can occasionally extend up to 15 years after date of grant. RSUs generally vest ratably over four years and Performance RSUs generally fully vest after three years, subject to achieving market or performance conditions. Equity-based award grants AOCI, after tax Balance at September 30, 2017 (54) (3,067) (407) (3,528) Unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period 191 156 (217) 130 Reclassifications of net (gains) losses to net income 23 278 301 Balance at September 29, 2018 160 (2,633) (624) (3,097) Unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period 105 (2,660) (331) (2,886) Reclassifications of net (gains) losses to net income (142) 214 72 Reclassifications to retained earnings (23) (667) (16) (706) Balance at September 28, 2019 100 (5,746) (971) (6,617) Unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period (49) (1,896) 22 (1,923) Reclassifications of net (gains) losses to net income (202) 420 218 Balance at October 3, 2020 (151) (7,222) (949) (8,322) Gains (losses) in net income: Market value adjustments, primarily Estimated tax Income taxes (61) (43) 12 Pension and postretirement medical Estimated tax Income taxes 127 64 102 Total reclassifications for the period (218) (72) (301) cash flow hedges expense Cost and expenses (380) Details about AOCI components reclassified to net income are as follows: Under various plans, the Company may grant stock options and other equity-based awards to executive, management and Stock options are generally granted at exercise prices equal to or exceeding the market price at the date of grant and become At the beginning of fiscal 2019, the Company adopted new FASB accounting guidance, Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, and reclassified 691 million from AOCI to retained earnings. In addition, at the beginning of fiscal 2019, the Company adopted new FASB accounting guidance, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Liabilities, and reclassified 24 million ( 15 million after tax) of market value adjustments on investments previously recorded in AOCI to retained earnings. Primarily reflects market value adjustments for cash flow hedges. Affected line item in the Consolidated Primarily revenue Interest expense, net (547) (278) Statements of Operations: 2020 2019 2018 Market Value Adjustments Postretirement Unrecognized Pension and 263 185 (35) (420) (214) (278) 202 142 (23) Translation and Other AOCI Foreign Currency 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 152 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS generally provide continued vesting, in the event of termination, for employees that reach age 60 or greater, have at least ten years of service and have held the award for at least one year. incentive plans by one share while each share granted subject to a RSU award reduces the number of shares available by two shares. As of October 3, 2020, the maximum number of shares available for issuance under the Company s stock incentive plans (assuming all the awards are in the form of stock options) was approximately 160 million shares and the number available for issuance assuming all awards are in the form of RSUs was approximately 77 million shares. The Company satisfies stock option exercises and vesting of RSUs with newly issued shares. Stock options and RSUs are generally forfeited by employees who terminate prior to vesting. based group of management, technology and creative personnel. The fair value of options is estimated based on the binomial valuation model. The binomial valuation model takes into account variables such as volatility, dividend yield and the risk-free interest rate. The binomial valuation model also considers the expected exercise multiple (the multiple of exercise price to grant price at which exercises are expected to occur on average) and the termination rate (the probability of a vested option being canceled due to the termination of the option holder) in computing the value of the option. may change the value of, and therefore the expense related to, future stock option grants. The assumptions that cause the greatest variation in fair value in the binomial valuation model are the expected volatility and expected exercise multiple. Increases or decreases in either the expected volatility or expected exercise multiple will cause the binomial option value to increase or decrease, respectively. The volatility assumption considers both historical and implied volatility and may be impacted by the Company s performance as well as changes in economic and market conditions. expense for RSUs is based on the market price of the shares underlying the awards on the grant date. Compensation expense for Performance RSUs reflects the estimated probability that the market or performance conditions will be met. Risk-free interest rate 1.8% 2.8% 2.4% Expected volatility 23% 23% 23% Dividend yield 1.36% 1.61% 1.57% Termination rate 5.8% 4.8% 4.8% Exercise multiple 1.83 1.75 1.75 Stock option 101 84 87 RSUs 424 627 306 Total equity-based compensation expense 525 711 393 Tax impact (118) (161) (99) Reduction in net income 407 550 294 Equity-based compensation expense capitalized during the period 87 81 70 Each share granted subject to a stock option award reduces the number of shares available under the Company s stock Each year, generally during the first half of the year, the Company awards stock options and restricted stock units to a broad- The weighted average assumptions used in the option-valuation model were as follows: Although the initial fair value of stock options is not adjusted after the grant date, changes in the Company s assumptions Compensation expense for RSUs and stock options is recognized ratably over the service period of the award. Compensation Compensation expense related to stock options and RSUs is as follows: Fiscal 2019 includes a 164 million charge for acceleration of TFCF performance RSUs converted to Company RSUs in connection with the TFCF acquisition (see Note 4). Equity-based compensation expense is net of capitalized equity-based compensation and estimated forfeitures and excludes amortization of previously capitalized equity-based compensation costs. 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 153 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS millions): 28.01, respectively. The total intrinsic value (market value on date of exercise less exercise price) of options exercised and RSUs vested during fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 totaled 989 million, 646 million and 585 million, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic values of stock options vested and expected to vest at October 3, 2020 were 514 million and 63 million, respectively. Outstanding at beginning of year 23 90.05 Awards forfeited (1) 127.94 Awards granted 4 147.04 Awards exercised (3) 80.17 Outstanding at end of year 23 101.41 Exercisable at end of year 13 84.50 Unvested at beginning of year 12 110.84 Granted 6 142.77 Vested (5) 108.13 Forfeited (1) 117.25 Unvested at end of year 12 128.56 The following table summarizes information about stock option transactions in fiscal 2020 (shares in millions): The following table summarizes information about RSU transactions in fiscal 2020 (shares in millions): The weighted average grant-date fair values of options granted during fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 were 36.19, 28.76 and The following tables summarize information about stock options vested and expected to vest at October 3, 2020 (shares in Excludes Performance RSUs issued in September 2018 and December 2019, for which vesting is subject to service conditions and the number of units vesting is subject to the discretion of the CEO. At October 3, 2020, the maximum number of these Performance RSUs that could be issued upon vesting is 0.1 million. Number of options expected to vest is total unvested options less estimated forfeitures. Includes 0.2 million Performance RSUs. Includes 1.4 million Performance RSUs. Range of Exercise Prices 0 50 2 40.54 1.2 51 80 3 61.03 2.7 81 110 4 98.65 5.3 111 140 4 112.32 6.5 Range of Exercise Prices 100 125 5 110.06 7.6 126 150 4 147.84 9.2 Number of Options Weighted Average Weighted Average Expected to Vest Exercise Price Exercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Years of Remaining Years of Weighted Average Weighted Average Contractual Life Contractual Life Exercise Price Grant-Date Fair Value Weighted 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 154 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS 850 million, respectively. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.6 years for stock options and 1.9 years for RSUs. respectively. Tax benefits realized from tax deductions associated with option exercises and RSUs vesting for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 was approximately 220 million, 145 million and 160 million, respectively. 14 Detail of Certain Balance Sheet Accounts Current receivables Parks, resorts and other property Intangible assets Accounts payable and other accrued liabilities Other long-term liabilities Accounts receivable 11,299 12,930 Other 1,835 2,894 Allowance for doubtful accounts (426) (343) Attractions, buildings and improvements 31,279 29,509 Furniture, fixtures and equipment 22,976 21,265 Land improvements 6,828 6,649 Leasehold improvements 1,028 1,166 Accumulated depreciation (35,517) (32,415) Projects in progress 4,449 4,264 Land 1,035 1,165 Character franchise intangibles, copyrights and trademarks 10,572 10,577 MVPD agreements 8,098 9,900 Other amortizable intangible assets 4,309 4,291 Accumulated amortization (5,598) (3,393) Indefinite lived intangible assets 1,792 1,840 Accounts payable 12,663 13,778 Payroll and employee benefits 2,925 3,010 Other 1,213 974 Pension and postretirement medical plan liabilities 6,451 4,783 Other 10,753 8,977 Net amortizable intangible assets 17,381 21,375 As of October 3, 2020, unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options and RSUs was 140 million and Cash received from option exercises for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 305 million, 318 million and 210 million, 12,708 15,481 32,078 31,603 19,173 23,215 16,801 17,762 17,204 13,760 October 3, 62,111 58,589 September 28, 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 155 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS 15 Commitments and Contingencies Commitments approximately 46.4 billion, including approximately 3.1 billion for available programming as of October 3, 2020, and approximately 40.6 billion related to sports programming rights, primarily for college football (including bowl games and the College Football Playoff) and basketball, NBA, NFL, UFC, MLB, Cricket, US Open Tennis, Top Rank Boxing, the PGA Championship and various soccer rights. general and administrative purposes, production facilities, retail outlets and distribution centers for consumer products, land and content broadcast equipment. In addition, the Company has non-cancelable financing leases, primarily for land and broadcast equipment. See Note 16 for discussion of the Company s operating and financing lease commitments. employment agreements and unrecognized tax benefits. Creative talent and employment agreements include obligations to actors, producers, sports, television and radio personalities and executives. totaled 58.8 billion at October 3, 2020, payable as follows: the table above. Legal Matters involving copyright, breach of contract and various other claims incident to the conduct of its businesses. Management does not believe that the Company has incurred a probable material loss by reason of any of those actions. Contractual Guarantees finance construction of infrastructure and a public parking facility adjacent to the Disneyland Resort. Revenues from sales, occupancy and property taxes from the Disneyland Resort and non-Disney hotels are used by the City of Anaheim to repay the bonds, which mature in 2037. In the event of a debt service shortfall, the Company will be responsible to fund the shortfall. As of October 3, 2020, the remaining debt service obligation guaranteed by the Company was 232 million. To the extent that tax revenues exceed the debt service payments subsequent to the Company funding a shortfall, the Company would be reimbursed for any previously funded shortfalls. To date, tax revenues have exceeded the debt service payments for these bonds. significant change requires lessees to record the present value of operating lease payments as right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet. The new guidance continues to require lessees to classify leases between operating and finance leases (formerly capital leases ). periods beginning after September 29, 2019 are presented under the new guidance, while prior periods continue to be reported Fiscal Year: 2021 12,043 3,051 15,094 2022 8,632 2,291 10,923 2023 6,030 988 7,018 2024 4,972 1,263 6,235 2025 5,058 1,060 6,118 Thereafter 9,643 3,737 13,380 The Company has various contractual commitments for broadcast rights for sports, films and other programming, totaling The Company has entered into operating leases for various real estate and equipment needs, including office space for The Company also has contractual commitments for the construction of three new cruise ships, creative talent and Contractual commitments for broadcast programming rights and other commitments including cruise ships and creative talent Certain broadcast programming rights have payments that are variable based primarily on revenues and are not included in The Company, together with, in some instances, certain of its directors and officers, is a defendant in various legal actions The Company has guaranteed bond issuances by the Anaheim Public Authority that were used by the City of Anaheim to At the beginning of fiscal 2020, the Company adopted new lease accounting guidance issued by the FASB. The most We adopted the new guidance using the modified retrospective method at the beginning of fiscal year 2020. Reporting 46,378 12,390 58,768 Programming Other Total 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 156 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS in accordance with our historical accounting. The Company adopted the new guidance by applying practical expedients that permit us not to reassess our prior conclusions concerning whether: liabilities, which were measured by the present value of the remaining minimum lease payments. In accordance with the guidance, the Company elected to exclude from the measurement of the right-of-use asset and lease liability leases with a remaining term of one year ( Short-term leases ). lease, which is determined by estimating what it would cost the Company to borrow a collateralized amount equal to the total lease payments over the lease term based on the contractual terms of the lease and the location of the leased asset. Lessee Arrangements administrative purposes, production facilities, retail outlets and distribution centers for consumer products, land and content broadcast equipment. The Company also has finance leases, primarily for land and broadcast equipment. leases may require us to make fixed rental payments, variable lease payments based on usage or sales and fixed non-lease costs relating to the leased asset. Variable lease payments are generally not included in the measurement of the right-of-use asset and lease liability. Fixed non-lease costs, for example common-area maintenance costs, are included in the measurement of the right- of-use asset and lease liability as the Company does not separate lease and non-lease components. will be exercised, the exercise of the option is considered in calculating the term of the lease. As of October 3, 2020, our operating leases have a weighted-average remaining lease term of approximately 10 years, and our finance leases have a weighted-average remaining lease term of approximately 23 years. The weighted-average incremental borrowing rate is 2.5% and 6.3%, for our operating leases and finance leases, respectively. Additionally, as of October 3, 2020, the Company had signed non-cancelable lease agreements with total estimated future lease payments of approximately 277 million that had not yet commenced and therefore are not included in the measurement of the right-of-use asset and lease liability. Any of our existing arrangements contain a lease Our existing lease arrangements are operating or finance leases To capitalize indirect costs and Existing land easements are leases. The adoption of the new guidance resulted in the recognition of approximately 3.7 billion of right-of-use assets and lease The present value of the lease payments was calculated using the Company s incremental borrowing rate applicable to the At adoption, in the Consolidated Balance Sheet we also reclassified: Deferred rent of approximately 0.3 billion for operating leases at the end of fiscal year 2019 from Accounts payable and other accrued liabilities (current portion) and Other long-term liabilities (non-current portion) to Other assets (right- of-use asset) A deferred sale leaseback gain of approximately 0.3 billion from Deferred revenue and other (current portion) and Other long-term liabilities (non-current portion) to Retained earnings and Capitalized lease assets of approximately 0.2 billion from Parks, resorts and other property to Other assets related to finance leases. The Company s operating leases primarily consist of real estate and equipment, including office space for general and We determine whether a new contract is a lease at contract inception or for a modified contract at the modification date. Our Some of our leases include renewal and or termination options. If it is reasonably certain that a renewal or termination option 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 157 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS was 1.1 billion and 0.9 billion, respectively. beginning of the reporting period is as follows: Right-of-use assets Short-term lease liabilities Long-term lease liabilities Finance lease cost Operating lease cost 899 Variable fees and other 491 Total lease cost 1,443 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities Total 932 Operating leases 3,687 Finance leases 361 Operating leases 747 Finance leases 37 784 Operating leases 2,640 Finance leases 271 Operating cash flows for operating leases 879 Operating cash flows for finance leases 16 Financing cash flows for finance leases 37 Total right-of-use assets 4,048 Total lease liabilities 3,695 Amortization of right-of-use assets 37 Interest on lease liabilities 16 The Company s operating and finance right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are as follows: The components of lease expense for the year ended October 3, 2020 are as follows: Rental expense for operating leases during fiscal 2019 and 2018, including common-area maintenance and contingent rentals, Cash paid during the year ended October 3, 2020 for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities as of the Included in Other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Includes approximately 0.6 billion of long-term prepaid rent that was presented as a right-of-use asset upon adoption. Includes variable lease payments related to our operating and finance leases and costs of Short-term leases, net of sublease income. Included in Accounts payable and other accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Included in Other long-term liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. October 3, 2020 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 158 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2019, presented based on our historical accounting prior to the adoption of the new lease guidance, are as follows: Fiscal year: Thereafter 1,565 482 Total undiscounted future lease payments 4,211 720 Less: Imputed interest (824) (412) Total reported lease liability 3,387 308 Fiscal year: Thereafter 2,491 458 Total minimum obligations 5,931 549 Less: amount representing interest (398) Present value of net minimum obligations 151 2021 840 56 2022 635 56 2023 494 51 2024 367 40 2025 310 35 2020 982 19 2021 849 20 2022 670 19 2023 532 17 2024 407 16 Future minimum lease payments, as of October 3, 2020, are as follows: Future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases and non-cancelable capital leases at September 28, Operating Financing Capital Leases 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 159 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS 17 Fair Value Measurement measurement Level. See Note 11 for definitions of fair value measures and the Levels within the fair value hierarchy. inputs such as interest rates, yield curves and foreign currency exchange rates. Counterparty credit risk, which is mitigated by master netting agreements and collateral posting arrangements with certain counterparties, did not have a material impact on derivative fair value estimates. denominated borrowings, are valued based on quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or identical instruments in markets that are not active. credit risk of the Asia Theme Parks as well as prevailing market interest rates. values of these financial instruments approximate the fair values. evaluated when certain triggering events occur (including a decrease in estimated future cash flows) that indicate the asset Fair Value Measurement at October 3, 2020 Derivatives Liabilities Derivatives Total recorded at fair value 1,503 1,503 Fair value of borrowings 63,370 1,448 64,818 Fair Value Measurement at September 28, 2019 Derivatives Liabilities Derivatives Total recorded at fair value 13 220 233 Fair value of borrowings 48,709 1,249 49,958 Investments 1,057 1,057 Investments 13 13 Interest rate 515 515 Foreign exchange 505 505 Other 1 1 Interest rate (4) (4) Foreign exchange (549) (549) Other (22) (22) Interest rate 89 89 Foreign exchange 771 771 Other 1 1 Interest rate (93) (93) Foreign exchange (544) (544) Other (4) (4) The Company s assets and liabilities measured at fair value are summarized in the following tables by fair value The fair values of Level 2 investments are based on quoted market prices, adjusted for trading restrictions. The fair values of Level 2 derivatives are primarily determined by internal discounted cash flow models that use observable Level 2 borrowings, which include commercial paper, U.S. dollar denominated notes and certain foreign currency Level 3 borrowings include the Asia Theme Park borrowings, which are valued based on the current borrowing cost and The Company s financial instruments also include cash, cash equivalents, receivables and accounts payable. The carrying The Company also has assets that are required to be recorded at fair value on a non-recurring basis. These assets are Description Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Description Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 160 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 161 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS should be evaluated for impairment. In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company recorded impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets as disclosed in Note 19. The fair value of these assets reflected the estimated discounted future cash flows, which is a Level 3 valuation technique (see Note 19 for a discussion of the more significant inputs used in our discounted cash flow analysis). Credit Concentrations financial instruments on an ongoing basis and does not currently anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties. instruments as of October 3, 2020, in the event of nonperformance by any single derivative counterparty. The Company generally enters into derivative transactions only with counterparties that have a credit rating of A- or better and requires collateral in the event credit ratings fall below A- or aggregate exposures exceed limits as defined by contract. In addition, the Company limits the amount of investment credit exposure with any one institution. investment grade credit ratings and maintains short-term liquidity needs in high quality money market funds. As of October 3, 2020, the Company s balances with individual financial institutions that exceeded 10% of the Company s total cash and cash equivalents were 26% of total cash and cash equivalents. At October 3, 2020, the Company did not have balances (excluding money market funds) with individual financial institutions that exceeded 10% of the Company s total cash and cash equivalents. October 3, 2020 due to the wide variety of customers and markets in which the Company s products are sold, the dispersion of our customers across geographic areas and the diversification of the Company s portfolio among financial institutions. 18 Derivative Instruments management policy. The primary risks managed with derivative instruments are interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk. As of October 3, 2020 Derivatives designated as hedges Derivatives not designated as hedges Gross fair value of derivatives 238 783 (197) (378) Counterparty netting (143) (378) 184 338 Cash collateral (received) paid (26) (142) 9 Net derivative positions 69 263 (13) (31) Foreign exchange 184 132 (77) (273) Interest rate 515 (4) Other 1 (15) (4) Foreign exchange 53 136 (98) (101) Interest Rate Other (3) The Company monitors its positions with, and the credit quality of, the financial institutions that are counterparties to its The Company does not expect that it would realize a material loss, based on the fair value of its derivative financial The Company does not have material cash and cash equivalent balances with financial institutions that have below The Company s trade receivables and financial investments do not represent a significant concentration of credit risk at The Company manages its exposure to various risks relating to its ongoing business operations according to a risk The Company s derivative positions measured at fair value are summarized in the following tables: Assets Other Assets Liabilities Other Long- Liabilities 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 162 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Interest Rate Risk Management objective is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and on the market value of its borrowings. In accordance with its policy, the Company targets its fixed-rate debt as a percentage of its net debt between a minimum and maximum percentage. The Company primarily uses pay-floating and pay-fixed interest rate swaps to facilitate its interest rate risk management activities. fixed-rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings indexed to LIBOR. As of October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019, the total notional amount of the Company s pay-floating interest rate swaps was 15.8 billion and 9.9 billion, respectively. borrowings. Pay-fixed swaps effectively convert floating rate borrowings to fixed-rate borrowings. The unrealized gains or losses from these cash flow hedges are deferred in AOCI and recognized in interest expense as the interest payments occur. The Company did not have pay-fixed interest rate swaps that were designated as cash flow hedges of interest payments at October 3, 2020 or at September 28, 2019, and gains and losses related to pay-fixed swaps recognized in earnings for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 were not material. As of September 28, 2019 Derivatives designated as hedges Derivatives not designated as hedges Gross fair value of derivatives 368 493 (259) (382) Counterparty netting (231) (345) 258 318 Cash collateral (received) paid (55) (6) 7 Net derivative positions 82 142 (1) (57) Borrowings: 2020 2019 2018 Gain (loss) on: Benefit (expense) associated with interest accruals on pay-floating swaps 28 (58) (15) Current 753 1,121 4 (3) Long-term 16,229 9,562 505 34 Pay-floating swaps 479 337 (230) Borrowings hedged with pay-floating swaps (479) (337) 230 Foreign exchange 302 241 (67) (244) Interest rate 89 (82) Other 1 (3) (1) Foreign exchange 65 163 (107) (126) Interest Rate (11) The Company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes primarily through its borrowing activities. The Company s The Company designates pay-floating interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of fixed-rate borrowings effectively converting The following table summarizes fair value hedge adjustments to hedged borrowings: The following amounts are included in Interest expense, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations: The Company may designate pay-fixed interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges of interest payments on floating-rate Includes 34 million and 37 million of gains on terminated interest rate swaps as of October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019, respectively. Current Assets Other Assets 16,982 10,683 509 31 October 3, Carrying Amount of Hedged Borrowings September 28, Liabilities Fair Value Adjustments Included in Other Current October 3, Hedged Borrowings Other Long- September 28, Liabilities 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 163 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS April 2018 to enter into future pay-floating interest rate swaps indexed to LIBOR for 2.0 billion in future borrowings. The Company repurchased these options in July 2020 for 2 million. The fair values of these contracts were 1 million and 11 million at June 27, 2020 and September 28, 2019, respectively. The options were not designated as hedges and did not qualify for hedge accounting accordingly, changes in their fair value were recorded in earnings. Gains and losses on the options for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 were not material. Foreign Exchange Risk Management The Company s objective is to reduce earnings and cash flow fluctuations associated with foreign currency exchange rate changes, enabling management to focus on core business issues and challenges. protect the value of its existing foreign currency assets, liabilities, firm commitments and forecasted but not firmly committed foreign currency transactions. In accordance with policy, the Company hedges its forecasted foreign currency transactions for periods generally not to exceed four years within an established minimum and maximum range of annual exposure. The gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the related forecasted transaction, asset, liability or firm commitment. The principal currencies hedged are the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, Chinese yuan and Canadian dollar. Cross-currency swaps are used to effectively convert foreign currency denominated borrowings into U.S. dollar denominated borrowings. forecasted foreign currency transactions. As of October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019, the notional amounts of the Company s net foreign exchange cash flow hedges were 4.6 billion and 6.3 billion, respectively. Mark-to-market gains and losses on these contracts are deferred in AOCI and are recognized in earnings when the hedged transactions occur, offsetting changes in the value of the foreign currency transactions. Net deferred gains recorded in AOCI for contracts that will mature in the next twelve months total 106 million. The following table summarizes the effect of foreign exchange cash flow hedges on AOCI: of the designated exposure is recorded to Interest Expense, net to offset the foreign currency impact of the foreign currency denominated borrowing. The non-hedged exposure is recorded to AOCI and is amortized over the life of the cross currency swap. As of October 3, 2020, the total notional amount of the Company s designated cross currency swaps was Canadian 1.3 billion ( 979 million). There were no designated cross currency swaps as of September 28, 2019. Fiscal 2020, gains and losses on cross currency swaps and related hedged items were not material, and there were no gains or losses in fiscal 2019 and 2018. designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting. The notional amounts of these foreign exchange contracts at October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019 were 3.5 billion and 3.8 billion, respectively. The following table summarizes the net foreign exchange gains or losses recognized on foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities and the net foreign exchange gains or losses on the foreign exchange contracts we entered into to mitigate our exposure with respect to foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities by the corresponding line item in which they are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations: Gain (loss) recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (63) 156 Gain (loss) reclassified from AOCI into the Statement of Operations 269 183 Net gains (losses) on foreign Net gains (losses) on foreign Net gains (losses) (46) (65) (42) 1 (3) (7) (2) (1) 10 currency denominated assets and liabilities 10 (188) (146) 1 16 39 (35) 50 29 exchange risk management contracts not designated as hedges (56) 123 104 (19) (46) 33 (51) (19) To facilitate its interest rate risk management activities, the Company sold options in November 2016, October 2017 and The Company transacts business globally and is subject to risks associated with changing foreign currency exchange rates. The Company enters into option and forward contracts that change in value as foreign currency exchange rates change to The Company designates foreign exchange forward and option contracts as cash flow hedges of firmly committed and The Company designates cross currency swaps as fair value hedges of foreign currency denominated borrowings. The impact Foreign exchange risk management contracts with respect to foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are not Primarily recorded in revenue. 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 Costs and Expenses Interest expense, net Income Tax Expense 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 164 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS Commodity Price Risk Management contracts as cash flow hedges of forecasted commodity purchases. Mark-to-market gains and losses on these contracts are deferred in AOCI and are recognized in earnings when the hedged transactions occur, offsetting changes in the value of commodity purchases. The notional amount of these commodities contracts at October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019 and related gains or losses recognized in earnings were not material for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018. Risk Management Other Derivatives Not Designated as Hedges hedge accounting. These contracts, which include certain swap contracts, are intended to offset economic exposures of the Company and are carried at market value with any changes in value recorded in earnings. The notional amount and fair value of these contracts at October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019 were not material. The related gains or losses recognized in earnings were not material for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018. Contingent Features and Cash Collateral contracts. The Company may be required to post collateral in the event that a net liability position with a counterparty exceeds limits defined by contract and that vary with the Company s credit rating. In addition, these contracts may require a counterparty to post collateral to the Company in the event that a net receivable position with a counterparty exceeds limits defined by contract and that vary with the counterparty s credit rating. If the Company s or the counterparty s credit ratings were to fall below investment grade, such counterparties or the Company would also have the right to terminate our derivative contracts, which could lead to a net payment to or from the Company for the aggregate net value by counterparty of our derivative contracts. The aggregate fair values of derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features in a net liability position by counterparty were 53 million and 65 million at October 3, 2020 and September 28, 2019, respectively. 19 Restructuring and Impairment Charges Goodwill and Intangible Asset Impairment Company s international television networks. Our international television networks primarily derive revenues from affiliate fees charged to multi-channel video programming distributors (i.e. cable, satellite, telecommunications and digital over-the-top service providers) (MVPDs) for the right to deliver our programming under multi-year licensing agreements and the sales of advertising time space on the networks. A majority of the operations in this reporting unit were acquired in the TFCF acquisition, and therefore the fair value of these businesses approximated the carrying value at the date of the acquisition of TFCF. viewership and lower advertising revenue related to the availability of content, including the deferral of certain live sporting events. The Company s increased focus on DTC distribution in international markets is expected to negatively impact the International Channels business as we shift the primary means of monetizing our film and television content from licensing of linear channels to use on our DTC services because the International Channels reporting unit valuation does not include the value derived from this shift, which is reflected in other reporting units. In addition, the industry shift to DTC, including by us and many of our distributors, who are pursuing their own DTC strategies, has changed the competitive dynamics for the International Channels business and resulted in unfavorable renewal terms for certain of our distribution agreements. assets (including intangible assets) for impairment. carrying value of the asset group. Assets are grouped at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets. If the carrying value of an asset group exceeds the estimated undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment is measured as the difference between the fair value of the group s long-lived assets and the carrying value of the group s long-lived assets. estimated the projected undiscounted cash flows over the remaining useful life of an asset group. The more significant inputs used in determining our estimate of the projected undiscounted cash flows included future revenue growth and projected margins as well as the estimate of the remaining useful life of an asset group. the carrying value over the fair value. The determination of fair value requires us to make assumptions and estimates about The Company is subject to the volatility of commodities prices, and the Company designates certain commodity forward The Company enters into certain other risk management contracts that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for The Company has master netting arrangements by counterparty with respect to certain derivative financial instrument Our International Channels reporting unit, which is part of the Direct-to-Consumer & International segment, comprises the The International Channels business has been negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic resulting in decreased Due to these circumstances, in the third quarter of fiscal 2020, we tested the International Channels goodwill and long-lived The impairment test requires a comparison of cash flows expected to be generated over the useful life of an asset group to the We determined the appropriate asset groups for our International Channels to be the regions in which they operate. We If the carrying value of an asset group exceeded the estimated undiscounted cash flows, the impairment loss is the excess of 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 165 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 166 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS how market participants would value the asset groups. The most sensitive factors affecting the fair value of an asset group are the future revenue growth and projected margins for these businesses as well as the discount rates used to calculate the present value of future cash flows. assets of 1.9 billion. As of October 3, 2020, the remaining balance of the International Channels MVPD agreement intangible assets is approximately 3.0 billion. of the International Channels reporting unit to its carrying value. The fair value was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis. The determination of fair value requires us to make assumptions and estimates about how market participants would value the International Channels. The more sensitive inputs used in the discounted cash flow analysis include future revenue growth and projected margins as well as the discount rates used to calculate the present value of future cash flows. Given the ongoing impacts of COVID-19, the projected cash flows and underlying assumptions are subject to greater uncertainty than normal. non-cash impairment charge of 3.1 billion to fully impair the International Channels reporting unit goodwill. Restructuring and impairment charges in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. TFCF Integration synergies from the acquisition of TFCF. The restructuring plan is substantially complete as of the end of fiscal 2020. In connection with this plan, during fiscal 2020, the Company recorded 0.5 billion of restructuring charges, which included 0.4 billion of severance (including employee contract terminations). To date, we have recorded restructuring charges of 1.7 billion, including 1.2 billion related to severance and 0.3 billion of equity based compensation costs, primarily for TFCF awards that were accelerated to vest upon the closing of the TFCF acquisition. These charges are recorded in Restructuring and impairment charges in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. With the TFCF integration efforts nearly complete, the Company expects that total severance and other restructuring charges will remain at approximately 1.7 billion. and Products segment, which we expect to be completed by the end of fiscal 2021. The Company recorded Balance at September 29, 2018 Balance at September 28, 2019 676 Balance at October 3, 2020 357 Additions in fiscal 2019: Total additions in fiscal 2019 906 Payments in fiscal 2019 (230) Additions in fiscal 2020: Total additions in fiscal 2020 453 Payments in fiscal 2020 (772) Media Networks 90 Parks, Experiences and Products 11 Studio Entertainment 197 Direct-to-Consumer & International 426 Corporate 182 Media Networks 26 Parks, Experiences and Products 9 Studio Entertainment 92 Direct-to-Consumer & International 264 Corporate 62 In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge primarily on our MVPD agreement intangible We tested the International Channels reporting unit goodwill for impairment on an interim basis by comparing the fair value In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the carrying value of the International Channels exceeded the fair value, and we recorded a The 1.9 billion impairment of our MVPD relationships and 3.1 billion impairment of goodwill are recorded in In fiscal 2019, the Company implemented a restructuring and integration plan as a part of its initiative to realize cost The changes in restructuring reserves related to the TFCF integration for fiscal 2019 and 2020 are as follows: In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company approved a workforce reduction plan, primarily at the Parks, Experiences 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 167 169 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 168 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS 287 million of restructuring charges for severance related to this plan in fiscal 2020. These charges are recorded in Restructuring and impairment charges in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 20 New Accounting Pronouncements Accounting Pronouncements Adopted in Fiscal 2020 Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform contracts, hedging relationships, and other transactions affected by the transition from the use of LIBOR to an alternative reference rate. We are currently evaluating our contracts and hedging relationships that reference LIBOR and the potential effects of adopting this new guidance. The guidance can be adopted immediately and is applicable to contracts entered into on or before December 31, 2022. Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes rules for recognizing deferred taxes for investments, performing intraperiod tax allocations and calculating income taxes in interim periods. It also reduces complexity in certain areas, including the accounting for transactions that result in a step-up in the tax basis of goodwill and allocating taxes to members of a consolidated group. The guidance is effective at the beginning of the Company s 2022 fiscal year (with early adoption permitted). We currently do not expect the new guidance will have a material impact on our financial statements. Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments credit losses on financial instruments, including trade and loan receivables. The new guidance requires the allowance for credit losses to be measured based on expected losses over the life of the asset rather than incurred losses. The guidance is effective at the beginning of the Company s 2021 fiscal year. The adoption will not have a material impact on our financial statements. Leases - See Note 16 Improvements to Accounting for Costs of Films and License Agreements for Program Materials - See Note 8 In March 2020, the FASB issued guidance which provides optional expedients and exceptions for applying current GAAP to In December 2019, the FASB issued guidance which simplifies the accounting for income taxes. The guidance amends the In June 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance which modifies existing guidance related to the measurement of 2022 3 10 11:17 dis-20201003 https: www.sec.gov Archives edgar data 0001744489 000174448920000197 dis-20201003.htm 169 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS (unaudited) Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2020 Revenues 20,877 18,025 11,779 14,707 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income Segment operating income 3,996 2,407 1,099 606 Net income (loss) from continuing operations 2,168 528 (4,509) (629) Net income (loss) attributable to Disney 2,107 460 (4,721) (710) Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (21) (8) (3) Earnings (loss) per share: 2019 Revenues 15,303 14,924 20,262 19,118 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 3,431 7,236 2,009 1,247 Segment operating income 3,655 3,815 3,952 3,425 Net income from continuing operations 2,786 5,589 1,616 906 Net income attributable to Disney 2,788 5,452 1,760 1,054 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 22 366 299 Earnings per share: Diluted - continuing operations 1.17 0.26 (2.61) (0.39) Diluted - total 1.16 0.25 (2.61) (0.39) Basic - continuing operations 1.18 0.26 (2.61) (0.39) Basic - total 1.17 0.25 (2.61) (0.39) Diluted - continuing operations 1.86 3.53 0.79 0.43 Diluted - total 1.86 3.55 0.97 0.58 Basic - continuing operations 1.87 3.55 0.79 0.43 Basic 1.87 3.56 0.98 0.58 taxes 2,626 1,051 (4,840) (580) On March 20, 2019, the Company began consolidating the results of TFCF and Hulu (see Note 4). As a result, revenues and operating results in fiscal 2020 and the third and fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 reflected the impact of this transaction. Results included amortization related to TFCF and Hulu intangible assets and fair value step-up on film and television costs (adverse impact of 0.30 on diluted earnings (loss) per share (EPS)) and restructuring and impairment charges (adverse impact of 0.06 on EPS). Results included amortization related to TFCF and Hulu intangible assets and fair value step-up on film and television costs (adverse impact of 0.27 on EPS) and restructuring and impairment charges (adverse impact of 0.06 on EPS). Results included the Hulu gain (favorable impact of 2.46 on EPS), restructuring and impairment charges (adverse impact of 0.33 on EPS), an impairment in our investment in Vice (adverse impact of 0.18 on EPS), and amortization related to TFCF and Hulu intangible assets and fair value step-up on film and television costs (adverse impact of 0.05 on EPS). Results included goodwill and intangible asset impairments at our International Channels business (adverse impact of 2.53 on EPS), amortization related to TFCF and Hulu intangible assets and fair value step-up on film and television costs (adverse impact of 0.28 on EPS), restructuring and impairment charges (adverse impact of 0.04 on EPS), and the DraftKings gain (favorable impact of 0.16 on EPS). Results included amortization related to TFCF and Hulu intangible assets and fair value step-up on film and television costs (adverse impact of 0.34 on EPS), restructuring and impairment charges (adverse impact of 0.09 on EPS), equity investment impairments (adverse impact of 0.08 on EPS), and an adjustment to the Hulu gain (adverse impact of 0.05 on EPS). Results included amortization related to TFCF and Hulu intangible assets and fair value step-up on film and television costs (adverse impact of 0.30 on EPS), restructuring and impairment charges (adverse impact of 0.17 on EPS), the DraftKings gain (favorable impact of 0.25 on EPS), and a non-cash gain on the sale of an investment (favorable impact of 0.03 on EPS). Results included amortization related to TFCF and Hulu intangible assets and fair value step-up on film and television costs (adverse impact of 0.30 on EPS), a charge for the settlement of a portion of the debt originally assumed in the TFCF acquisition (adverse impact of 0.22 on EPS), and restructuring and impairment charges (adverse impact of 0.13), and a gain on the deemed settlement of preexisting relationships with TFCF as part of the accounting for the acquisition (favorable impact of 0.01 on EPS). Segment operating results reflect earnings before the corporate and unallocated shared expenses, restructuring and impairment charges, other income, net, interest expense, net, income taxes and noncontrolling interests. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (in millions, except per share data) (1) (1) (1) (1) (2) (3) (5) (7)