SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
   Samsung Electronics Website : http:  www.samsung.com 
   Sustainability Website :  https:  www.samsung.com us aboutsamsung sustainability strategy  
   IR Website : https:  www.samsung.com global ir  
   Samsung Electronics Newsroom :  http:  news.samsung.com kr   http:  news.samsung.com global 
   This report was prepared by :  Corporate Sustainability Management Office, Global Public Affairs,   Samsung Electronics  
   Address :  129, Samsung-ro, Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do, 16677, South Korea 
  E-mail : csr.partner samsung.com 
A JOURNEY TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE 
About This Report 
Samsung Electronics publishes the 13th Sustainability Report in 2020 to share its   
economic, social and environmental progress transparently with various stakeholders. 
Reporting Standards 
This report was prepared in accordance with the Core Options of the Global Reporting   
Initiative (GRI) standards. It also reflected the indicators of the UN Sustainable   
Development Goals (SDGs), Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)  
and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). 
Reporting Scope 
This report covers all our global worksites and supply chains. Financial performance data  
is based upon consolidated K-IFRS accounting standards. Environmental performance of  
our worksites is based upon data collected from 37 global production subsidiaries.  
Reporting Period 
This report covers economic, social, and environmental performance and activities from  
January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019, and for some achievements in this report may  
include information dated to May 2020. Quantitative data for the latest three fiscal years  
are provided to allow for trend analysis over time.  
Reporting Cycle 
Annual (last report issued in June, 2019) 
Report Assurance 
To ensure the reliability of the reporting process and information included in the report,  
Samsung Electronics engaged with Samil PwC, an independent external assurance   
provider to conduct the assurance review. The review was conducted in accordance with  
International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and AA1000AS Type II. 
FOR FURTHER DETAILS ON THIS REPORT 
Table of Contents 
SUSTAINABILITY   PILLARS 
Presenting Samsung Electronics' sustainability activities  according to six categories 
OUR BUSINESS CEO Message 002 
GLOBAL CRISIS COVID-19 Response 014 
PRIORITY AREAS Materiality Assessment 020 
Climate Actions 022 Introducing key topics of   sustainability based on   Samsung Electronics'   materiality assessment 
SUSTAINABILITY  FOUNDATION 
Our Alignment with the United Nations   Sustainable Development Goals  107  Providing basic information on  Samsung Electronics'  sustainability management   
APPENDIX Independent Assurance Report 123 
Commitment to the Environment   in our Operations 056  
Stakeholder Engagement   and Communication 106  
Management Philosophy 003 
Samsung Electronics Worldwide 004 
Business Overview 006 
Circular Economy 028 
Labor   Human Rights 032 
Privacy   Cybersecurity 040 
Corporate Governance  046 
Compliance 050 
Product Stewardship 062 
Corporate Citizenship 070 
Technology for Good 076 
Investing in our Employees 084 
Sustainability Value Creation 108 
Risk Management 110 
Responsible Business Practices  1 1 1 
Performance Summary 113 
TCFD Index 126 
SASB Index 127 
GRI Index 128 
Verification Statement on   Greenhouse Gas Emissions 125  
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 002 
CEO Message 
 As a global corporate citizen,  
Samsung Electronics will  
continue to create environmental 
and social values while achieving  
positive economic outcomes.  
Samsung Electronics Co.,Ltd. 
Vice Chairman and CEO 
Kim, Kinam 
We thank you for your continued interest and support for Samsung Electronics, especially  given the challenging circumstances brought on by the global outbreak of the COVID-19. We  would like to take this opportunity to wish you continued good health and well-being. 
Samsung Electronics is doing its best to promptly respond to the COVID-19 crisis that is  affecting the world.  
As part of quarantine measures, we analyzed the unprecedented crisis quickly and are  actively preventing the spread of the disease among our employees as well as the workers  of our suppliers. From a business management perspective, we are committed to minimizing  the business impacts of the pandemic by working to ensure that there are no interruptions to  the operation of the supply chain that stretches from raw materials to customers. Moreover,  in line with our CSR Vision,  Together for Tomorrow! , which launched last year, we stand side  by side with the communities that are struggling with COVID-19 and continue to provide sup- port so they can overcome the crisis. 
Meanwhile we remain steadfast in our efforts to contribute to the global economy by creating  innovative technologies and products. The Consumer Electronics (CE) Division is enhancing  customers' lifestyles with products such as QLED 8K TVs, the Sero TVs, and BESPOKE refrig- erators. The IT   Mobile Communications (IM) Division has maintained its No. 1 position in  smartphones by launching foldable phones, and continues to remain at the forefront of the  next-generation telecommunication market by commercializing 5G for the first time in the  world. The Device Solutions (DS) Division continues to lead the semiconductor industry by  introducing the highest-level innovative technologies, such as the third-generation 10-nano  class DRAM, the 108 million pixel image sensor, and EUV process. 
Samsung Electronics celebrated its 50th-anniversary last year. As we take our first steps into  the next half-century, we are acutely aware of our obligations and roles in sustainable opera- tions. As a global corporate citizen, Samsung Electronics will continue to create environmen- tal and social values while achieving positive economic outcomes. 
To this end, we are expanding environmentally conscious investments in production facilities  to strengthen our climate change response activities. We are also promoting ways to improve  the Earth's environment through initiatives such as establishing the  Samsung Particulate  Matter Research Institute . To minimize the environmental impact of our products, we will  continue our efforts in extending their life cycle and reducing electronic waste. 
We will be more prudent to the potential social impact of our products and services with  regard to personal information protection and cybersecurity, and will strengthen our activ- ities to protect and improve the workplace environment of our employees and those of our  suppliers. 
Samsung Electronics takes the responsibility of transparent corporate structure and ethical  management seriously. In support of this, we appointed an Independent Director as the chair  of the Board of Directors for the first time, and established a Samsung Compliance Commit- tee with related companies. We will continually strive to operate a world-class governance  and compliance management system. 
Although our daily lives are undergoing rapid changes because of COVID-19, through solidar- ity and cooperation, Samsung Electronics will successfully overcome the challenges the pan- demic has brought us. To leave a great legacy as a  sustainable centennial company  for future  generations, Samsung Electronics is dedicated to creating innovative products and services  based on a bold and can-do spirit, and to contributing to the societal development as a  sus- tainable first-class company . 
We thank you for your continued interest and ask for your unyielding support. Thank you.  
Management Philosophy 
Samsung Electronics is committed to devoting our human resources and technology to create superior products and services, thereby  contributing to a better global society. To this end, we translated our five Samsung business principles into detailed action plan guidelines  to establish the Samsung Electronics Global Code of Conduct to guide all of our employees. To drive our sustainable growth and define our  way forward, we are guided by the following core values, which are instrumental to the way our employees conduct business. 
003 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
We value our people  with a strong belief  in  A company is its  people  philosophy and  providing opportunities  to perform their full  potential. 
We will devote our human resources and technology  to create superior products and services, thereby  contributing to a better global society. 
We give our best  efforts with endless  passion and a  challenge spirit to  become world best  in every ways. 
EXCELLENCE 
Business Principles 
C o r e  V a l u e s 
P h i l o s o p h y 
We rapidly take the  initiative in executing  change and innovation  with risk awareness:   we cannot survive if  we do not constantly  strive to innovate. 
We comply with laws and ethical standards. 
We maintain a clean organizational culture. 
We respect customers, shareholders and employees. 
We care for the environment, safety and health. 
We are a socially responsible corporate citizen. 
We act in a right and  ethical way in all  manners, ensuring  fairness with honor  and grace. 
CO-PROSPERITY 
We take full  responsibilities as a  good corporate citizen  in pursuit of mutual  prosperity with our  community, nation and  human society. 
Footnotes: 1)  Regional classification is based on Samsung Electronics' internal man- agement criteria 2) Sales Branches, Service Centers, Distribution Bases, etc. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 004 
Samsung Electronics Worldwide 
At the end of 2019, we had 230 worldwide operating hubs, including our headquarter in Suwon, South Korea, manufacturing subsidiaries, sales  subsidiaries, design centers and R D Centers, while operating 15 Regional Offices in South Korea, North America, Europe, Southeast Asia,  Africa and other regions of the world. 
Category   
Regional Offices 
Sales Offices 
Production Sites 
R D Centers 
Design Centers 
Suppliers (First tier) 2,208 
R D Expenditure 74 
20.2 KRW trillion 
Regional Offices 2 Sales Offices  2 Production Sites  3 R D Centers  6 Design Centers  1  Others  13 
North America Latin America 
Regional Offices  1 Sales Offices  7 Production Sites  3 R D Centers  1 Design Centers  1 Others  11 
005 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Regional Offices  1 Sales Offices  2 Production Sites  1 Others  6 
Regional Offices  2 Sales Offices  16 Production Sites  3 R D Centers  3 Design Centers  1 Others  15 
Africa Southwest Asia Middle East Southeast Asia 
Regional Offices  1 Sales Offices  3 Production Sites  1 R D Centers  2 Others  4 
Regional Offices  1 Sales Offices  7 Production Sites  1 R D Centers  4 Others  13 
Regional Offices  2 Sales Offices  4 Production Sites  10 R D Centers  8 Design Centers  1 Others  4 
Regional Offices  1 Sales Offices  1 Production Sites  2 R D Centers  4 Design Centers  1 Others  4 
Regional Offices  1 Sales Offices  1 Production Sites  6 R D Centers  4 Design Centers  1 
South Korea 
Regional Offices 2 Sales Offices  8 Production Sites  7 R D Centers  4 Others  10 
Regional Offices  1 Sales Offices  1 R D Centers  2 Design Centers  1 Others  1 
CE Consumer Electronics   Division  
We continued to build on our leadership in the global TV market in 2019, where we  have remained No. 1 position for 14 consecutive years and gained more than 30% mar- ket share for the first time. This is the result of our constant efforts to create advanced  and innovative products and reflect consumer preferences. 
 The Frame  features  Art Mode , which transforms the screen into a dynamic picture  frame to display artwork or photos when not in use. This advanced TV, now in its third  year since the launch, uses a QLED display to realize more vivid high definition and  includes a  One Invisible Connection  that integrates all the wires connected to the TV  into a single translucent optical cable. This means it can be easily positioned almost  anywhere in a room.  The Serif , first released in 2016, is designed for aesthetic value.  In 2019, we added the option of larger displays, featuring 43, 49, and 55-inch models  to meet the demand for larger, more immersive screens. Based on an analysis of the  millennial generation's familiarity with mobile content,  The Sero  provides a portrait  mode viewing experience that is different from the traditional TV. The Sero's portrait  mode viewing delivers a mobile-optimized experience, while also allowing users to  rotate the screen for traditional landscape mode viewing. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 006 
Business Overview 
Visual Display Business 
QLED 8K TV   (Q950TS) Eco package 
TV Market Share   1st  30.9% 
Premium TV   Market Share   1st  52.4% 
Improved Consumer Accessibility:  Developed accessibility shortcut  functions, such as a screen reader that   uses remote control buttons and  multiple sound outputs   
Expanded Resource Recycling:   Applied an upcycling design that can  revamp TV packaging boxes into small  furniture or for pet use 
Minimized Environmental Impact:  Used sustainable materials such as  bioplastics and sustainably-sourced  paper   as packaging materials 
Footnotes: 1)  Source: OMDIA, based on the global sales  amount from 2019  2) TV market of products above USD 2,500 3)  This function enables users to connect a  TV speaker and Bluetooth audio device at  the same time, allowing users with hearing  impairments to adjust the volume of the  Bluetooth device 4)  Sustainable forest certification paper and  recycled paper 
Home Appliances Business 
Samsung Electronics strives to consistently introduce new paradigms for home appli- ances through thoughtful products and services that are acutely attuned to the rapidly  evolving lifestyles of consumers around the world. 
In 2019, we unveiled Project PRISM, bringing forth a new philosophy in the home appli- ances industry and cementing our lead in a new era of personalized home appliances.  Samsung's customizable refrigerator  BESPOKE , which allows customers to customize  product type, color and finish according to their personal preferences and lifestyles,  changed the course of trends in the refrigerator market.  Grande AI , a washer-dryer  set powered by artificial intelligence, learns customers' usage patterns and prefer- ences to provide an extraordinary custom-fit experience. Samsung Electronics will  continue to present innovative lifestyle home appliances that reflect the unique char- acteristics and needs of consumers across generations.  
In addition to lifestyle variations, consumers today are increasingly looking to home  appliances to address environmental concerns such as dust pollution and heatwaves.  Samsung is answering those concerns with products specialized to protect against  dust, allergens and bacteria. This line-up includes the Wind-Free  air conditioner,  the clothing care device AirDresser, the Cube air purifier, the cordless stick vacuum  cleaner Samsung Jet , and the dust disposal solution Clean Station . 
Samsung has been at the forefront of developing Internet of Things (IoT) and artifi- cial intelligence (AI) capabilities for home appliances through products like the Family  Hub refrigerator, the industry-first IoT-enabled refrigerator that has been recognized  with CES Innovation Awards for five consecutive years. We will continue to seek out IoT  solutions that will maximize convenience and enrich our customers' everyday experi- ences. 
007 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Grande AI washer  (WF23T9500KE) BESPOKE refrigerator  (RF85T98A2AP) 
US Home Appliances Market Share   1st  20.5% 
Reduction of Greenhouse Gas  Emissions:  Developed and applied eco-conscious   technology   that can save energy  while maintaining the same  performance of Grande AI washer  
Reduction of Resource Waste:  Applied a modular design that can  separate and combine products and  replace door panels to BESPOKE  refrigerator  
Minimization of Environmental  Impact:  Used sustainable materials such as  bioplastics and sustainably-sourced  paper for packaging materials 
Footnotes: 1)  Source: TraQline, based on the sales amount  of each brand in 2019 2)  Grande AI's ultra-power saving mode saves  53% energy compared to the standard mode  (self-evaluation) 
We develop and manufacture medical imaging equipment, such as digital X-ray  devices, for customers around the world. One of our major digital X-ray devices, the  ceiling-mounted GC85A, provides clear and excellent image quality using technology,  such as image noise reduction. It provides greatly enhanced convenience functions,  including an automatic adjustment of the shooting position according to the patient's  posture. This allows medical staff to make quick and accurate diagnoses while mini- mizing patient discomfort. Another digital X-ray device, the premium mobile GM85,  maximizes mobility and offers excellent image quality and smooth driving perfor- mance. It can take 220 images in one charge. In addition, its lightweight and compact  user-centered design increases the efficiency of medical treatment. The AccE detector  is a core part of our digital X-ray devices and a model with enhanced water-proofing,  dust-proofing and durability in comparison to the previous models. The technology  helps to prevent equipment contamination and infections in hospitals.  
We continue to innovate by integrating various technologies into medical imaging  equipment. Recently, we applied AI technology and image signal processing tech- nology, such as automatic lung nodule detection function, to equipment development  to improve the accuracy of diagnosis. In addition, we have developed a Smart Center  function that connects several digital X-ray devices to the network to check the status  of equipment use in real time and to facilitate quick maintenance.  
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 008 
Health and Medical Equipment Business 
Mobile digital radiography  (GM85) 
Design Category Winner The 67th iF Design Award   
Reduction of Greenhouse Gas  Emissions:   Replaced lead-acid batteries with the  industry's first Li-ion battery, which is  
filled with a high-efficiency material   
Reduction of Resource Use:   Made the weight of mobile X-ray  devices 40% lighter than previous  models 
Footnotes: 1) AccE detector product 2)  Energy efficiency has almost doubled com- pared to the previous product 
IM IT   Mobile Communications Division 
Mobile Communications Business 
As the global mobile industry market leader, we strive to provide new and differenti- ated user experiences through innovations with purpose. Our proud heritage of over  a decade of Galaxy research and development has created innovative technologies  such as our foldable smartphones, Galaxy 5G, Internet of Things, as well as Samsung  Knox, Samsung Pay, Samsung Health and Bixby. Building on these technologies, our  smartphones, wearable devices, tablets and PCs will create new product categories,  launching a new era of mobile functionality and remarkable user experiences to push  the industry forward.  
Based on our experience with the world's first 5G smartphone, the Galaxy S10 5G, we  diversified our Galaxy 5G product offer in 2020 to include not only premium products,  but also across the broader smartphone range, in order to meet the ever-changing  needs of our diverse and growing range of customers and to offer the latest technol- ogy to more people. We also launched the Galaxy Fold and Galaxy Z Flip with foldable  form factors, highlighting our leadership in continuously bringing the world's first and  best technology to market for meaningful innovations. Through these efforts and by  harnessing the power of 5G, AI and mobile security, and through open collaboration,  we will pioneer a new generation of immersive, intelligent and secure experiences that  reach across every device, platform and brand, while building a sustainable future. Minimization of Environmental  Impact:  Used sustainable materials such as  bioplastics   and sustainably-sourced  paper 
Galaxy S20  
009 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Mobile Phone Market Share   1st  17.5% 
Smartphone Market Share   1st  20.9% 
Tablet Market Share   2nd  13.6% 
Smart Watch Market Share   2nd  14.2% 
Reduction of Greenhouse Gas  Emissions:  Developed a high-efficiency charging  technology with 86% charging  efficiency 
Protection of Private Information:  Developed security solutions such as  Knox 
Support for a Healthy Digital Life:   Applied digital well-being features  such as App Timer, and Samsung Kids 
Environmental Certifications 
Footnotes: 1)  Source: Strategy Analytics, based on the  number of devices sold globally in 2019  2) Galaxy S10e 
Samsung Electronics is leading the transition to 5G technology with preemptive  investments in the sector over the past ten years. We realized innovation in communi- cation technologies and set a new direction for the next-generation services by build- ing a global industrial ecosystem, leading the international standards, and launching  pre-commercial services together with major telecommunications providers around  the world. Moreover, we offer an end-to-end product portfolio for 5G commercial  services, such as 5G Radio and Core network equipment, user devices, and chipsets  (Modem chips, RFIC, DAFE, etc.) We are positioned as the most preferred partner for  5G service commercialization that can address detailed factors such as the spectrum  environment of individual communication service providers, the penetration rate of  communication technologies by generation, and future business models. Through this,  we are spearheading the introduction and commercialization of innovative technolo- gies in leading markets such as South Korea, the United States, and Japan. 
Based on our advanced technology, experience, and business portfolio, we launched  the world's first 5G Home service in the United States in October 2018 and commer- cialized the world's first mobile 5G service in South Korea in April 2019. In Japan, we  played a key role in the commercial launch of 5G in March 2020, and we are actively  expanding the market to North America, Oceania, Southeast Asia, and Europe, based  on our experience as the first in the world to commercialize 5G with leading telecom  operators. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 010 
Network Business 
Footnotes: 1)  Technology that reduces energy consump- tion by automatically adjusting the output  power according to data usage within the  service area 2)  Technology by which the base station auto- matically optimizes energy consumption at  times when data usage is low 5G Access Unit 
Signed 5G PROVIDER   CONTRACT in JAPAN   (September 2019) 
Supplying 5G COMMERCIAL  EQUIPMENT in the U.S.  (Since 2019) 
WORLD'S FIRST 5G   commercialization in South Korea   (April 2019) 
WORLD'S FIRST development   
with 10Gbps support   (October 2019) 
Reduction of Greenhouse Gas  Emissions:   Applied base station energy saving  technologies, including Dynamic  Power Amplifier   and   Energy Saving Mode   
Reduction of Resource Use:  Reduced the size of new 5G base  stations by about 26% compared to   
the previous 5G base stations 
Safe Use of Products:  Developed and applied  electromagnetic field(EMF) control  technologies that comply with  the International Electrotechnical  Commission's regulations 
of 28GHz 5G Access Unit   
DS Device Solutions  Division 
Memory Business 
We have led the global memory market since 1993 and have developed outstanding  products in anticipation of future demands, contributing to the growth of the global  IT market.  
In 2019, we developed the industry's first third-generation 10-nanometer-class  DRAM and sixth-generation V-NAND with a 100  layer single-stack design, break- ing through the previous limits of memory technologies.  
This year, we started supplying the industry's highest-performing memory (16GB  HBM2E), which can dramatically improve the performance of supercomputers  and AI analytics systems. We were also the first in the industry to mass-produce  the highest-speed, largest-capacity mobile DRAM (16GB LPDDR5) optimized for  ultra-high-resolution, large-screen flagship smartphones  and mobile memory  (512GB eUFS 3.1) with triple the write speed of the previous 512GB eUFS 3.0 mem- ory. In addition, we are continuously expanding the premium memory market with  products such as the 30.72TB NVMe SSD, which presents a new SSD paradigm with  software innovations  a second-generation 3.84TB Z-SSD for next-generation super- computing systems  and a four-bit SSD that is transforming the three-bit SSD mar- ket with improved reliability and performance. 
The memory semiconductor market is expected to change rapidly with the intro- duction of next-generation interfaces. By developing advanced process designs  and technologies ahead of time, we will continue to strengthen our leadership in the  global memory market. 
011 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Sixth- generation V-NAND SSD (250GB SATA PC SSD) 
Fifth- generation 512Gb V-NAND (512GB eUFS 3.0) 
DRAM Market Share   1st  44% 
NAND Market Share   1st  36% 
SSD Market Share   1st  43% 
Reduction of Greenhouse Gas  Emissions:   Applied energy-saving technologies  such as low-power circuit design that  reduces semiconductor chip operating  voltage by 15% compared to the   fifth-generation V-NAND 
Reduction of Resource Use:   Applied channel-hole etching   and  single-step etching   technologies that  reduce water and energy footprint 
Minimization of Environmental  Impact:  Samsung's 512GB eUFS 3.0 memory  was awarded the Carbon Footprint and  Water Footprint Certifications from the  United Kingdom's Carbon Trust for the  first time in the industry 
Footnotes: 1)  Source: Yole, based on the global sales  amount in 2019  2)  Technology that enables making ultra-fine  holes in stacked cell layers 3)  Technology that enables piercing through  100 or more semiconductor cell layers in a  single etching step 
The System LSI Business is focused on the development of next-generation products  to expand technological competitiveness in the fabless (semiconductor design) field  and strengthen our presence in the global market. We actively responded to the  market demand for high-performance image sensors by introducing the industry's  first 64-megapixel and 108-megapixel products as well as the first 0.7-microme- ter-pixel sensors. Looking ahead, Samsung plans to expand its reach beyond mobile  and into applications such as automobiles, security and IoT. 
We supply high-performance and mid- to low-end mobile AP modem integrated  chips. The business is leading technological innovation by commercializing the world's  first multimode modem that supports 2G to 5G simultaneously. In addition, we are  pioneering in developing technologies and products that best address the market's  demands in the low-power high-definition display driver IC, power management IC  (PMIC), and security chip fields. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 012 
System LSI Business 
Security IC for mobile device  (S3FV9RR) 
Integrated PMIC for wireless earphone  (MUA01, MUB01) 
DDI Market Share   1st  24% 
Image Sensor Market Share   2nd 19% 
Safe Protection of Personal  Information:  Released hardware security chips  with the highest rating in the Security  International Common Criteria (CC  )  and security solutions integrating  security software 
Reduction of Greenhouse Gas  Emissions:  Developed an energy-efficient  integrated power management chip  that integrates a microcontroller,  wireless charging receiving chip,  battery charging chip, and battery  level measuring chip 
Footnotes: 1)  Source: Gartner, based on the global sales  amount in 2019  2) Common Criteria 
Foundry Business 
We started the foundry (semiconductor contract manufacturing) business in 2005 by  capitalizing on our advanced process technologies to better serve our customers with  optimized products and services. In 2018, we began production of the industry's first  7nm process based on extreme ultraviolet (EUV) lithography technology. In 2019, we  succeeded in developing a 5nm process that reduced the logic area and improved power  efficiency through standard cell architecture optimization and process innovation. 
This year, we began mass production at the V1 line in Hwaseong, South Korea, dedi- cated to EUV technology in response to the demand for cutting-edge process nodes  such as 7nm and below. These processes are critical in various future applications that  include 5G, high-performance computing, artificial intelligence and autonomous driv- ing. In addition to reinforcing a stable production system, we plan to continue offering  cutting-edge processes and optimal solutions that meet the fast-paced and diverse  needs of the market. 
013 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Foundry fab for 7nm and below process nodes in Hwaseong, South Korea 
Foundry Market Share   2nd 16% 
Reduction of Greenhouse Gas  Emissions:   Developed a 5nm foundry process with  20% improvement in power efficiency,  compared to the 7nm process, through  cell design optimization and process  innovation 
Footnote: 1)  Source: OMDIA, based on the global sales  amount in 2019  
   Mandating face masks when entering worksites    Operating designated test centers    Limiting passenger capacity on elevators    Placing thermal cameras    Providing emergency childcare 
   Distribution of the CEO s message 
   Thermometers and hand sanitizers in the offices      Video conferences via Samsung Wormhole     Distribution of the COVID-19 prevention guidelines  and safety supplies to Contact Centers 
   Social distancing in the cafeteria     Wider selection of take-out menus  
   Relocation of production sites utilizing the global  network    Daily monitoring of all worksites against the impact    Face masks distribution to all employees 
   Shutdown of company s sports and group activity  facilities     Daily disinfection of commuter buses, elevators,  and other company facilities    Text message notifications on social distancing     Mandatory face masks on commuter buses 
   14-day self-quarantine for employees who traveled   outside of South Korea on business    Offering COVID-19 testing and medical expenses for  symptomatic employees    Recommendation to refrain from unnecessary domestic  and international travel via text message    Applying mobile diagnosis survey 
014 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
G L O B A L  C R I S I S 
Prioritizing Safety in  the Workplace 
An Improved Work Environment for Employee Safety  
COVID-19  Response 
Kim s Work Day  Our Actions 
The World Health Organization (WHO) declared COVID-19 a global pandemic on March 11, 2020. On  May 31, WHO reported that the number of global cases had exceeded 5.9 million. It remains difficult  to determine the full extent of the social and economic impacts of the outbreak and this uncertainty is  expected to continue for some time to come. Over the past 50 years, Samsung Electronics has success- fully navigated through countless crises together with our employees, suppliers, customers, and local  communities by putting people first, and contributing to communities, nations, and humanity. Capital- izing on these strengths, we will continue to ensure the safety and well-being of our employees, and  support our consumers and communities in the battle to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The health and safety of our employees remain our top priority. Since the early stages of the COVID-19  outbreak, we have operated a dedicated 24-hour team responding to public health authorities  announce- ments with remedial measures for each country. We are also providing transparent updates to our  employees on the impacts of COVID-19, including each worksites' situation and reactive measures. COVID- 19 has impacted all of us, and we have adapted to this new work environment to support the safety and  well-being of our employees and suppliers. Our aim is to establish a safe and efficient work environment  while minimizing the disruption faced by consumers in accessing our products and services. 
Returns from  business trip 
10:05 Kim reads the CEO s message posted on the company s online bulle- tin that encourages employees to participate in ensuring workplace  safety and overcome COVID-19.  
12:00 As part of the social distancing campaign, Kim and her colleagues  refrain from sitting across from each other while dining at the cafe- teria, or take their lunch to their desks.  
Kim takes advantage of the flexible working hours policy. She wears  a face mask on her way to work and visits the company s dedicated  test center. Before entering the office, she walks past thermal cam- eras that check her body temperature. 
Kim participates in a video conference to discuss the business  impacts of COVID-19 via Samsung Wormhole, a global cooperation  solution. She supports managing and distributing the COVID-19 pre- vention guidelines and safety supplies to Contact Centers. 
Some of the premium smartphones manufactured at the Gumi pro- duction site in South Korea will be temporarily produced at our pro- duction site in Vietnam due to COVID-19. During a video conference,  production managers from the Gumi and Vietnam production sites  and marketing managers for the European market share plans and  discuss ways to secure flights for key engineers as well as other  logistics related topics. 
Kim checks her text messages encouraging social distancing and  decides to cancel her dinner appointment. She takes the employee  commuter bus, which is disinfected daily. Public facilities including  meeting rooms and lobbies are also disinfected daily after employ- ees have gone home.  
After returning from a long business trip to Europe, Kim did not  commute to the office and instead worked from home for 14 days.  The day before returning to the office, she took the mobile COVID- 19 diagnosis survey and read the Company's precautionary advice. 
Simplified Authorization  Process and Consultation  Support -  Simplify parts approval   process and provide   consulting when   diversification of raw   materials and parts   suppliers is needed 
Business Funds    -  Provided KRW 1 trillion   business operation funds at  zero to low-interest rates in  line with Co-Prosperity   programs, such as Win-Win  funds and payment support  funds  -  Advanced payments of KRW  1.6 trillion for suppliers  
Air Transport Costs  -  Support for logistics costs   in cases where air freight  delivery is required for   emergency materials supply  
Support for Our Suppliers  
Footnotes: 1) As of end of May, 2020  2)  Samsung Electronics,   Samsung Electro-Mechanics,   Samsung Display,   Samsung SDI,   Samsung SDS,   Samsung C T Corporation, etc.  
Overcoming Crisis   and Recovering   the Community  
015 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
As a responsible global corporate citizen, we are committed to helping resolve problems faced by the  communities in which we work. To this end, we allocated KRW 2.6 trillion to maintain the safety of our  supply chain. We also extended our technical support and service periods to support our customers  using our products and services. We provided technical support, expert personnel, knowledge, and  infrastructure to the local communities, and donated USD 39 million to governments, medical, and edu- cational facilities in areas severely affected by COVID-19.    
Suppliers The unprecedented supply and demand pressures associated with COVID-19 caused a direct impact  on thousands of our suppliers across manufacturing to customer service. We are supporting suppliers  whose businesses have been affected by the pandemic by providing stabilization funds and logistics  costs. We will provide ongoing support wherever needed by understanding our suppliers  difficulties  through our  Suppliers Support Center.   
Customers We continue to help our customers use and access our products and services in a safe environment. We  have developed a variety of solutions to reduce the risk of infection, such as a hand wash notification  application and web meeting application. We have set up a help desk to support customers impacted  by social distancing restrictions and extended the warranty on a number of our products. We have also  added functions in our Global Goals application that provides consumers with accurate information on  COVID-19 and to encourage participation in relief efforts. 
IT Solutions for Infection Prevention  
Hand Wash - Hand Wash Notification Application 
Handwashing is one of the easiest methods to help prevent  the spread of COVID-19. We developed and launched a Hand  Wash application for the Galaxy Watch that reminds users to  wash their hands regularly. The application provides notifica- tions, urging users to wash their hands while giving prompts  throughout the hand washing process: five seconds for turning  on the tap and apply soap  and after 20 seconds for rinsing. 
Webex on Flip - Web Meeting Application 
COVID-19 can be spread through indirect contact as well as  via respiratory droplets. Video conferencing helps lower the  risk of infection by reducing face-to-face contact. Through a  partnership with Cisco, we launched a next-generation video  conference solution, Webex UX. Webex on Flip Integration  offers voice and video calls and real-time screen sharing to  support a smooth work experience any time and anywhere.  
016 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
G L O B A L  C R I S I S 
Footnote: 1)  United Nations Development  Programme 
Customer Support With the COVID-19 continuing to spread across the world, many countries are restricting the movement  of its citizens. To prevent any inconvenience in requesting and receiving repair services under these cir- cumstances, we are operating a 24-hour help desk on the Samsung.com website. In addition, we pro- vide a service to collect products from customers in person and deliver repaired products at locations  chosen by customers in countries, including the United States, Germany, Russia, Turkey, and Thailand,  which can be requested at no additional cost. The repaired products are disinfected with UV-C light and  delivered to customers afterwards. Furthermore, for products whose warranty expires at times when  customer service is limited due to COVID-19, we are providing a one-month extension of warranty start- ing from the date when customer service resumes, which may vary from country to country. Also, in  countries including the United States, the United Kingdom and Spain, we are providing a designated  hotline and providing a free mobile phone repair service to express our gratitude towards the medical  staff fighting the COVID-19 outbreak. 
Encouraging Participation in the Global Community  
Local Community  
Future Generations We believe students and future generations should all have access to quality education. However, this  access has been restricted due to school closures and social distancing policies in many parts of the  world. Based on our rich experiences in corporate citizenship, we developed online education platforms  and content in which students of all ages can participate. We also provided tablet PCs and other devices  to make remote learning more accessible to young children and students across the world.  
Samsung Global Goals     Application to Support UN s Sustainable Development Goals 
Sharing information in a transparent manner and encouraging par- ticipation of global citizens is crucial in overcoming COVID-19 crisis.  We added COVID-19 related information to Samsung Global Goals  application that was developed to support the Sustainable Devel- opment Goals. From April 2020, users could access the COVID-19  related contents provided by the UNDP, such as news and prevention  activities. Through the application, the users could also make dona- tions directly to the World Health Organization(WHO) to participate  in the relief efforts. 
Online Education Support 
We support bringing education online in many countries including Italy, Panama, Spain, Brazil, Chile  and Russia. In Italy, we are providing training guidance and various online contents to 60,000 teachers  to support remote learning. In Panama, we collaborated with the Ministry of Education and digital  education NGO, FundaSTEM, to develop a home-schooling application, which enables communication  between students and teachers. 
Digital Devices for Online Learning  
While access to online learning expanded as a result of COVID-19, children with limited access to  digital devices have suffered from a lack of educational opportunities. In an effort to improve access,  we supported underprivileged children with digital devices, including 30,000 tablet PCs, in South  Korea and Spain. 
Key Proposals 
Vietnam Fundraising to support   people at higher risk (Employee donation     fund matching) 
Mexico, India Food package deliveries   to people at higher risk  
Europe Support governments  to develop COVID-19 tracing  application 
Everyday prevention measures 25% Medical environment, others 12% 
Donations and campaigns 11% 
Non-face-to-face lifestyles 16% Sterilization, antisepsis, antibacterial measures 19% 
Health monitoring 17% 
Key Activities 
Preparing a Better  Future via   Collective Intelligence 
017 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Medical Assistance COVID-19 has a direct and negative impact on the health of citizens around the world. To assist those  affected by COVID-19 in returning to everyday lives, the medical system must be operated in a stable  manner, and medical staffs should be able to conduct examinations and treatments in a safe environ- ment. To help, we provide infrastructure and products and participate in various donation activities,  such as re-donation of 50,000 masks donated by our client, to the Daegu Medical Association. 
Preventing the Spread of the COVID-19 
As a global IT company, we are well placed to help tackle many of the wider issues created because of  the COVID-19 pandemic. By converting innovative ideas to minimize the spread of the virus and develop- ing real-world technologies to support society, we are doing our utmost to pave the way for a successful  global recovery. In order to gather ideas for solving the COVID-19 crisis, we invited employees from around  the world to participate in a large scale debate held through our collective intelligence platform,  MOSAIC .  Approximately 107,000 global employees participated in the two-week debate in 2020, the highest num- ber ever since the MOSAIC s launch in 2014. During the event, 1,620 different ideas were presented and we  expect to materialize these ideas into our products and services so that all can benefit from them. 
We provide smart devices and medical supplies for medical staff to help prevent the spread of COVID- 19 and to ensure the smooth operation of the health system. In particular, we provided 2,000 smart- phones for medical staffs in the United Kingdom, 250 hospital beds to Tunisia, as well as ultrasound  devices and other products to Argentina. 
We provided our Yeongdeok Training Institute to be used as a treat- ment facility to support Daegu and the South Gyeongsang Province, two  regions in South Korea that suffered from a shortage of medical staffs  and facilities due to the surge in the number of COVID-19 patients. The  facility was used to treat those with mild symptoms of the virus, allowing  general hospitals to focus on treating those with more severe symptoms. 
Supporting Residential Treatment Center - Yeongdeok Training Institute 
Product Support - Providing Smart Devices and Medical Supplies for Medical Staff 
Smart Factory - Boosting Mask Production 
When South Korea   which was affected in the early stage of the  global COVID-19 outbreak - experienced a shortage of masks, we  used our in-depth manufacturing knowledge to help local mask sup- pliers boost their output. Our experts improved the manufacturing  process of these companies and shared our technical know-how to  increase the productivity in a short time. In addition, we used our global network to support the sup- ply of key raw materials, while producing molds ourselves and providing them to the companies. We  aim to expand our support for mask manufacturing companies to Poland and other countries. At the  same time, we also plan to broaden the production support program coverage to test kits. 
Total  participants:  
Ideas  presented:  1,620 ideas 
Approximately  107,000 persons 
PRIORITY AREAS 
Privacy   Cybersecurity 040 
Materiality Assessment  020 
Cimate Actions 022 
Circular Economy 028 
Corporate Governance 046 
Labor   Human Rights 032 
Compliance 050 
020 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Materiality Analysis Result 
   Created a pool of material issues based on  a comprehensive analysis of 1,600 news  articles, peer benchmarks on 79 issues,  and industry issues (UN SDGs, TCFD, GRI,  SASB, WEF Sustainability Metrics, etc.)  
   Selected 28 issues through interviews  with sustainable management experts  and relevant departments within our  company 
Pooling material issues  
Priority Areas 
Climate   Actions 
Circular   Economy 
Labor     Human Rights 
Privacy    Cybersecurity 
Corporate   Governance 
Compliance 
Global societies are cautioned that climate change is expected to deteriorate biodiversity, human health and food systems. Some  regions are even warned that they may face unpredictable levels of crisis. Such crisis will have a significant impact on companies'  activities and that global response is needed. 
As natural resources are depleted, sustainability becomes essential throughout the entire process of purchasing, developing, man- ufacturing, distributing, using and disposing of products. Therefore, it is necessary to move away from a linear economy that con- sumes and dispose resources after one-time use to a circular economy that empowers efficient use of resources by expanding the  reuse of materials and recycling. 
The protection, respect and remedy of human rights are essential to the sustainable development of a global society. Companies  must comply with international human rights guidelines and national laws throughout their management activities, establish rele- vant policies, and regularly assess the status of policy compliance and improvement activities. 
As the damage and threats from various types of cyber attacks have increased in recent years, cybersecurity and privacy have  become more important. Cybersecurity should be considered in the entire process from product development to production. More- over, user s personal information must be thoroughly protected regardless of the purpose and method of use in various products  and services in order to prevent the misuse of personal information. 
For transparent and responsible management, the Board of Directors makes decisions on matters stipulated by laws or articles of  incorporation, delegated matters from the general shareholders' meetings, and important matters related to the company's basic  policy and business practice, while helping and supervising the executives  decisions.  
Compliance with laws and regulations is one of the most basic principles of business activities. In the case of global companies,  compliance must be thoroughly followed to conduct business in accordance with the global norms and laws of each country where  the business operates. 
Materiality Assessment  
We identify sustainability issues that impact our business and share our progress with stakeholders in a transpar- ent way through our sustainability report. We pool all relevant issues based on media reports, peer benchmarking,  global standards and initiatives on sustainable management, and expert opinions, and then identify the most mean- ingful   relevant material issues through an expert review and discussion with related departments. In identifying  the most important issues of 2020, we applied the sustainability management criteria for the technology and com- munications category specified by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Materiality Map. Material  issues were prioritized according to the economic, social, and environmental interests of stakeholders, as well as busi- ness impacts, such as revenue, costs, and reputation. The results of the materiality assessment are finalized after the  review of experts in sustainable management and the Corporate Sustainability Management Office. 
In 2019, we communicated with ESG evaluation agencies, environmental research institutes, NGOs, impact inves- tors and sustainability experts to introduce our approach to sustainability management issues, key activities and  progress, and gather feedback from stakeholders. The opinions we gathered were reflected in the materiality  assessment and will be considered when planning our sustainability management activities.  
-Participants:  Youngjae Ryu (Sustinvest), Eunkyung Lee (UN Global Compact Network Korea), Kyung Sun Chung  (Root Impact), Dexter Galvin (CDP), Michael Rohwer (BSR), Robert Lederer (RBA) 
Interviews with Sustainability Management Experts 
Business Impact     Assessed the impacts material issues on our revenue, costs,  and reputation 
Social Impact    Assessed economic, social, and environmental impacts  to stakeholders (customers, shareholders, investors,  employees, suppliers, local communities, NGOs,  governments, and media) 
   Prioritized sustainable management issues according to   the analysis of social impact and business impact  
Prioritization 
   Reviewed by Samsung Electronics top  management and Corporate   Sustainability Management Office 
   Material issues selected through  external sustainability management  expert interviews  
Internal and external expert review  
Business Impact 
Materiality Analysis Matrix 
Energy management  GSG management 
Recycling   and circular  economy 
Labor   practice and  human rights 
Privacy,   Cybersecurity and  freedom of speech 
Transparency in   governance  
Ethical   management  and compliance 
Sustainability Issues 
021 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
   Achieved 92% in renewable energy use rate in the United States, China,  and Europe (aim to reach 100% by the end of 2020)    Received a 2019 Green Power Leadership Award for Excellence from the  United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
   Expanded the use of sustainable materials including renewable plastics,  bioplastics, and sustainably-sourced papers    Expanded the application of modular design to products including BESPOKE  Refrigerator and Cube Air Purifier 
   Held educational sessions on labor and human rights in hand with   international organizations including the International Organization for  Migration (IOM)     Held stakeholder engagement forum in Vietnam to strengthen   communication with our stakeholders 
   Developed and released the Samsung Data Protection Guidelines     Samsung Knox platform 3.2 was rated  strong  in 27 out of 30 categories in  Gartner s May 2019 report  
   Appointed an Independent Director as the Chairman of the Board   for the first time   
   Enhanced the independence of the Corporate Compliance Team,   which reports directly to the CEO since reorganization    An independent expert group, Samsung Compliance Committee, was  launched to oversee business 
Our Main Activities and Results in 2019 
Health and Safety in Supply Chain 
Customer Relationship  Management 
10.0 20.0 30.0 40.0 50.0 60.0 70.0 80.0 90.0 100.0 
Transparency, Accountability  and Reporting 
Accessibility 
Waste Management 
Responsible Sourcing 
Global Stakeholder  Engagement 
Labor Practices in  Supply Chain 
Air Quality 
Water Management 
Competitive Behavior 
Diversity and Inclusion 
Customer Welfare 
Social Impact  
Physical Impacts of Climate Change 
Responsible Technology Use 
Human Resource Development  and Welfare 
Privacy, Data Security,   and Freedom of Expression 
Supply Chain Sustainability Support 
Recycle and Circular Economy 
GHG Emissions 
GRI 302 Energy   GRI 305 Emissions 
GRI 301 Materials 
GRI 402 Labor Relations GRI 407 Freedom of Association  and Collective Bargaining GRI 408 Child Labor GRI 409 Forced or Compulsory  Labor GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment 
GRI 418 Customer Privacy 
GRI 102 Governance 
GRI 419 Compliance 
GRI Standards 
Energy Management 
Employee Health   Safety 
Product Quality   Safety 
Community Development   and Business Citizenship Activities 
Product Design     Life cycle Management 
Transparency in Governance 
Labor Practices   and Human Rights 
Ethical Management   and Compliance 
022 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
PRIORITY AREAS Climate   Actions  
ALIGNMENT WITH UN SDGS 
[Goal 13] Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 
13.3   Improve education, awareness raising and human and institutional  capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and  early warning 
[Goal 7] Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern  energy for all 
7. 2   By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the  global energy mix 7. 3   By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency 7. a   By 2030, enhance international cooperation to facilitate access to  clean energy research and technology, including renewable energy, energy  efficiency and advanced and cleaner fossil fuel technology, and promote  investment in energy infrastructure and clean energy technology 
023 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
With the Paris Agreement, signed in Paris in December 2015, the transition to a new climate system and a low-carbon  model for the world economy began. In August 2019, the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  (IPCC) published the 'Special Report on Climate Change and Land'. The report warned that climate change will impact  biodiversity, human health and food systems to the extent that some regions will face a crisis at an unprecedented  scale. The IPCC called for an urgent global response. 
Samsung Electronics has been taking action to tackle the issues of climate change. We identify related issues, analyze  risks, and establish and implement counter-strategies. We regularly discuss climate actions through committees and  councils, and manage Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) at all worksites every month through the  Global Environment, Health, and Safety System (G-EHS). Furthermore, we are working with suppliers, the Samsung  institute of Safety   Environment and related departments to reduce other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3). 
Governance  
Samsung Electronics management considers climate change as an important challenge. The Board of Directors   our  top decision-making body   receives regular reports on issues related to climate change. Our CFO, who also serves as  a Chief Risk Officer (CRO), operates risk councils with the chief executives of various functions, such as environment,  public affairs, legal, and communications. The Environmental Safety Committee is held every year to review envi- ronmental management, climate change issues, and response activities. To respond to climate change, we operate  a company-wide council composed of executives in the environmental sector. The GHG management Council is held  twice a year and oversees the implementation of our GHG reduction projects. Moreover, an  Eco-Council' is held twice  a year and establishes strategies for energy-efficient products development. 
Climate Change Strategy 
To efficiently respond to climate change, we analyze related risks and opportunity factors, and design effective  counter-strategies. This includes consideration of various scenarios to identify the impact of climate change on our  business over time. Specifically, we use the IPCC AR5   defined Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP) scenar- ios, the International Energy Agency s (IEA) Energy Technology Perspectives (ETP) 2016, and the Nationally Deter- mined Contributions (NDC).  
Footnote:  1) Fifth Assessment Report  
Footnotes: 1)  RCP2.6 is representative of a scenario that aims to keep global warming likely below 2 C above pre-industrial temperatures. 2)  Business as usual Scenario: Scenarios without additional efforts to constrain emissions ( baseline scenarios ) 
The Key Impact Risk of the 2 C Scenario   
    Manufacturing costs could increase due to greater  focus on GHG emissions and energy mix conversion,  leading to higher electricity charges. 
The Key Impacts Risks of the 4 C Scenario   
    Frequent occurrences of extreme climate and   meteorological conditions such as heatwaves,  droughts, floods, cyclones, and forest fires could cause  disruption to manufacturing and distribution systems,  leading to higher raw material prices and lower   productivity.  
    Extreme climate and meteorological conditions could  affect economic activities, reducing product sales. 
024 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Climate Change Action 
Climate change risks and opportunities affect almost every aspect of our business from our products and services to  manufacturing processes, supply chain, research and development, and other sales activities. We expect the impact  on product development and manufacturing to be especially significant. This has led us to develop energy-efficient  products while working hard to reduce GHG emissions. In the short-term, we consider carbon prices (carbon credit  prices), extreme weather conditions, and changes to consumer behavior as the leading potential risks, and recognize  the development of energy-efficient products as an opportunity. In the mid-term, we expect changes to consumption  patterns and participation in the Certified Emission Reduction market as opportunities for the company. In the long- term, we consider the efficient reduction of GHG to be critical acting as both a risk and an opportunity. 
Footnote: 1)  7 major product categories - refrigerators, air conditioners, washing machines,   televisions, monitors, laptop computers and mobile phones 
Footnote: 1) Fluorinated gases 
Reduction of GHG Emission at Worksites 
With the recent expansion of facilities and production volume, Samsung Electronics' GHG emissions have gradually  increased. We continue to improve the efficiency in gas processing and to streamline our operations, thus maximizing  GHG reductions compared to forecasts while minimizing the increase in emissions. Every year, each worksite to proj- ect their GHG emissions, identifies GHG reduction tasks optimal for their manufacturing processes, and develop and  promote suitable action plans. In 2019, we implemented a total of 498 GHG reduction projects, including enhancing the  efficiency of F-gases processing facilities, upgrading to high efficiency equipment, and streamlining the manufactur- ing process. As a result, we reduced GHG emissions by a total of 5,098,000 tonnes, which is an increase of 75% com- pared to 2018. Such achievement was possible by increasing the reduction amount of emissions per GHG projects and  actively introducing renewable energy. In 2020, we plan to reduce GHG emissions through promoting additional proj- ects, including reduction of F-gases consumption and improvement of throughput, expansion of renewable energy  use, and reduction of LNG use. 
Manufacturing process   efficiency improvement 9.7% 
Increase facility efficiency 7.6% 
Introduction of   energy-efficient facilities 0.2% 
Lighting Improvement 0.1% 
Other 0.4% 
Applying IoT technologies to Infrastructure Facilities 
The Yeongdeok Training Center in South Korea and Ho Chi Minh City worksite applied IoT technologies and established  the foundation for a monitoring system and an energy active control environment. Our Smart Factory technology  enables optimized control of infrastructure facilities by applying energy-saving algorithms that take into account of  outdoor conditions, air conditioning loads, and device performance. By applying such technologies, Ho Chi Minh City  worksite was able to reduce 12.4% of energy consumed in air conditioning. We plan to expand the application of Smart  Factory technologies to other worksites, including South Korea, the United States, and Southeast Asia in the future. 
Reduction of GHG Emissions 
   F-gases   reduction facility operation  in semiconductor production process    Implementation of GHG reduction  projects 
Expansion of energy management Reduction of GHG emission   at worksites Reduction of external GHG emission 
   Establishment of energy management  system at all worksite and   maintenance of certificates    Expansion of renewable energy use 
Expansion of renewable energy use 45% 
   GHG reduction at the product use  stage    Management of GHG emissions from  suppliers, logistics and employees'  business trips 
Processed F-gases treatment 37% 
025 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Expansion of Renewable Energy Use 
In June 2018, we committed to sourcing renewable energy for 100% of all our worksites in the United States, Europe  and China by 2020. In South Korea, we also pledged to install solar and geothermal facilities in our parking lots, roofs,  and new buildings in Suwon, Hwaseong, and Pyeongtaek. To support this commitment, we established and imple- mented optimized regional action plans, including solar power generation facility installation, renewable energy certif- icate purchase, power purchasing agreements, and green pricing. In South Korea, we successfully installed solar power  generation facilities at Suwon and Giheung sites at scales of 1.9 MW (2018) and 1.5 MW (2019) respectively. We are also  reviewing the installation of additional solar and geothermal power facilities at other worksites including Giheung and  Pyeongtaek. Furthermore, in India, we signed a renewable energy supply contract with a wind and solar power suppli- ers, and purchased renewable energy certificates in Mexico. Our worksites in Brazil also receive a certain percentage of  renewable energy. As a result, in 2019, 92% of the electricity used in our sites in the United States, Europe, and China was  generated by renewable energy, and we are on track to reach our 100% renewable energy goal in 2020. We will continue  expanding the use of renewable energy in regions where renewable energy can be secured. 
Target of renewable energy   use in the U.S., Europe, and China  
Achieved  92% by 2019 
(2020) 100% 
Reduction of External GHG emissions 
Samsung Electronics develops and launches energy efficient products to reduce GHG emissions during the product  use stage. Through 25 reduction tasks implemented in relation to the products transportation, including transporta- tion route changes, loading efficiency improvements, and transportation management efficiency improvements we  reduced total GHG emissions by 1,544 tonnes in 2019. In addition, to reduce emissions generated by business travel,  we increased the use of video conferencing. In 2019, we hosted almost 187,000 video conferences that led to a reduc- tion of 3.5% in emissions generated by employees traveling from South Korea to overseas compared to the previous  year. Furthermore, we also monitor and manage GHG emissions generated by our suppliers. In 2019, we joined the  CDP Supply Chain Program and surveyed the status of GHG emissions and renewable energy use of our suppliers that  accounted for 80% of all our business transactions. We provided incentives to suppliers who met the CDP standards  for information disclosure and established GHG emission reduction goals. We will continue our efforts in working  with our suppliers for GHG emissions reduction. 
Expansion of Renewable Energy Use in the United States 
Recognizing our success in expanding the use of renewable energy, the United States Environmental Protection  Agency presented Samsung Electronics America, Inc., Samsung Austin Semiconductor, LLC, and Samsung Semicon- ductor, Inc. with the 2019 Green Power Leadership Award for Excellence in Green Power Use. This award reflected a  56% increase in the use of renewable energy following the installation of rooftop solar power generation facilities  and purchase of Renewable Energy Certificate (REC). Meanwhile, in November 2019, Samsung Austin Semiconduc- tor, in partnership with Apple, eBay and Sprint, agreed to purchase 75MW of renewable energy produced by a large- scale wind farm. 
Total Renewable Energy Use 
026 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Footnotes: 1) Clean Development Mechanism 
Issue Identification and Risk and Opportunity Analysis 
Regulations   Issues 
Physical   Issues 
Risks and Opportunities 
Samsung Electronics regularly monitors issues related to climate change, such as GHG and renewable energy use at  worksites around the world. The person in charge at each worksite is then asked to immediately report any issue that  may arise to the headquarters. Through the Environmental Safety Committee or the GHG management Council, we  regularly check these issues and discuss further actions to be taken before relaying decisions to the related depart- ments. 
Risk and Opportunity Analysis 
Samsung Electronics analyzes the risks and opportunities related to climate change and prioritizes issues based on  materiality and impact. 
Identify climate  change phenomena  and issues 
Risks Our approach Opportunities 
Changing consumer behavior 
Product energy efficiency   regulations Develop energy efficient products Receiving sustainable certificates   and energy lables 
Use of renewable energy Expanding renewable energy use, reducing GHG emissions 
GHG emissions trading  
Enhancing the brand image Corporate reputation 
Cyclone and flood 
Yellow dust 
Develop refrigerants with   a low global warming potential Carbon tax 
Risk and Opportunity Analysis Criteria 
Stakeholder's interest Industry trend 
Analyze impacts,  risks, and   opportunity factors 
Engage renewable energy purchase  contracts, registering for green  pricing, purchasing REC 
Establish damage prevention and  restoration scenarios and   invest in HVAC facilities 
Reinforce internal sustainability  activities and strengthen external  communication 
Establish an emission reduction  system and an emission trading  handling system 
Expand investments in facilities   for natural disaster damage   prevention and restoration 
Survey consumer trends and  expand sustainable product  development 
Establish response  strategies Implement and  monitor projects Analyze results  and check with the  target 
Business impact Internal capability Probability of occurrence 
Contribution to local communities for  climate change adoption and support  with technologies against climate change 
Proactive response to consumer  demand on eco-conscious products 
Create new business opportunities   for home appliances, such as air  purifiers and dryers 
Driving a worksite CDM     Program Securing carbon credit 
027 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Samsung Electronics uses various metrics, such as GHG emissions, GHG emissions intensity(CO e per KRW) and  energy expenditure and savings, to measure and determine risks and opportunities related to climate change. Spe- cifically, we use the internally determined carbon price to guide our decision-making process in terms of energy effi- cient facilities, power generation, carbon credit settlement, and renewable energy project investment. 
Climate Change Adaptation  
When we consider the construction of new worksites or large-scale facilities, we evaluate the risk of extreme  weather conditions as well as risks of storms and floods that can be caused by climate change, and reflect the learn- ings to the design of the worksites facilities. Since 2012, we have conducted about 20 cases of risk assessments and  consulting on storm and flood damage. For the worksite in Vietnam, we analyzed rainfall and water level changes  in recent years as well as flood risks caused by heavy rainfalls during the flood tides and reflected the results in the  site design. As a result, we designed the worksite to be located higher than the surrounding land, while also install- ing storm water pipes and drainage facilities. Meanwhile, the new worksite located on the east coast of the U.S. also  analyzed the recent impact of hurricanes in the region, and supplemented the standards for buildings and facilities in  consideration of potential future risks of heavy winds. 
GHG Emissions 
Our GHG emission target for 2020 is 1.55 tonnes of CO e KRW 100 million, which is a 70% reduction from 5.17 tonnes  of CO e KRW 100 million in 2008. In order to meet this target, we expanded the implementation of emission reduc- tion projects and the use of renewable energy. In 2019, the GHG emission intensity was 3.14 tonnes of CO e KRW 100  million, a 12% decrease from 2018. 
GHG Emission Trend   Unit: thousand tonnes CO e 
Footnotes: 1) GHG emissions calculated by measuring the total amount of renewable energy used 2) Fuel use, gas emissions from semiconductor processing, and LPG   LNG use, etc.  3) Consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam 4)  GHG emissions (location based) that do not take account of renewable energy usage was 13,585,000 tonnes CO e in 2017,   15,173,000 tonnes CO e in 2018, and 16,065,000 tonnes CO e in 2019 
Direct emissions (Scope 1  ) 
Indirect emissions (Scope 2  ) 
Total emissions   
028 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
PRIORITY AREAS Circular   Economy 
ALIGNMENT WITH UN SDGS 
[Goal 15] Protect, restore and promote sustainable use  of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests,  combat desertification, and halt and reverse land  degradation and halt biodiversity loss 
15.2   By 2020, promote the implementation of sustainable  management of all types of forests, halt deforestation, restore  degraded forests and substantially increase afforestation and  reforestation globally 
[Goal 12] Ensure sustainable consumption and production  patterns 
12.2   By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and  efficient use of natural resources 12.5   By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation  through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse 
029 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Circular Economy Principles 
As natural resources run out and consumers  demand for sustainable products rise, sustainability across all stages is  becoming increasingly important, from materials purchasing, development, and manufacturing to logistics, use and  disposal. We need to make the transformation from a linear economy that consumes resources only for single-use, to  a circular economy in which we close the loop and expand the reuse and recycling of our resources. 
We have established circular economy principles to minimize social and environmental impacts and to use resources  efficiently throughout the entire product life cycle. Based on these principles, we developed mid-to long-term goals  for 2030 and are making all efforts to achieve them. 
Our Circular Economy Principles  
Our Circular Economy Goals 
Footnotes: 1) Sustainable forest certification paper and recycled paper (for Consumer electronics and IT   Mobile communications products) 2) Accumulated amount since 2009 
Use of sustainably-sourced  paper in packaging    
By 2030 500,000 tonnes By 20307,500,000 tonnes By 2020 100% 
Expanding the purchase and use of sustainable resources at the materials selection and  product design stage, while minimizing the use of unnecessary raw materials 
Working towards maximizing the product lifespan by designing products based on end  customers  needs and rigorous quality testing 
Minimizing use of raw materials by creating compact product designs and packaging,   and by maximizing transportation efficiency 
Reducing the use of virgin natural resources and raw materials by maximizing reuse of  post-industrial materials from the manufacturing stage 
Extending the product lifespan and increasing customer satisfaction through   systematic product management geared by a professional service network 
Use of recycled plastic     Amount of e-waste take-back    
030 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Actions for Circular Economy 
We strive to carry out various circular economy activities at every stage of our product's lifecycle, such as use of sus- tainable materials, minimizing the use of resources, extending product longevity, and e-waste take-back and recycling.  
Use of Sustainable Materials 
Bioplastics Bioplastics are produced from renewable biomass sources and have a reduced environmental impact compared to  petroleum-based plastics. In cooperation with our bioplastics suppliers, Samsung Electronics is developing sustain- able materials to apply to products and packaging materials. In 2019, bioplastics containing 37% of biomass were  used in part of the front casing of the Galaxy S10e. 
Eco-conscious Packaging Materials We are gradually replacing product packaging materials with sustainable materials such as paper instead of plastic,  vinyl, and other disposable materials. We plan to fully convert paper for packaging and user manual into sustain- ably-sourced paper by 2020. Plastic containers and vinyl packaging used for mobile product packaging are being  replaced by pulp mold and paper, while vinyl wrappings for earphones and cables are being replaced with sustain- able materials. Also, we plan to gradually replace all vinyl packaging materials for home appliances with sustainable  materials. 
Minimal Use of Resources 
Recycled Plastic In 2009, we set a goal to increase our use of recycled plastic to reach 500,000 tonnes on a cumulative basis by 2030.  To achieve this goal, in 2019, we used recycled plastics in products ranging from refrigerators, washing machines, air  conditioners, TVs, monitors, to mobile phone chargers. In addition, some 30,000 tonnes of recycled plastics, includ- ing Post Consumer Materials (PCM) plastics recycled from e-waste, were used in our product manufacturing. 
Modular Design The BESPOKE refrigerator incorporates a modular design that allows customers to switch door panels without dis- posing of the refrigerator, thus creating new designs while reducing the use of resources. Cube Air Purifier enables  users to configure units depending on their needs and for desired capacity. Additional units can be purchased if nec- essary, contributing to the efficient use of resources. 
Extending Product Lifespan through Repair Service and Improved Durability 
Accurate diagnosis and quick repair of products can extend their lifespan and maintain performance, while improving  resource efficiency. At Samsung Electronics, we strive to increase customers' accessibility of our services by operat- ing both globally-run and country-optimized service channels, and by providing digital technology applied service. 
To enhance the durability of our products, we perform rigorous endurance tests to measure strength, drop resistance,  waterproof capacity, and lifespan that satisfy international standards. We also carry out our own durability tests,  including free-fall tests against various types of floor materials from different angles and various waterproof condi- tions tests. 
Sustainable Display Kit for Mobile Phone 
Recycled plastics are used not only in our products, but also in the materials used at our stores. In 2019, we devel- oped a recycled plastic material that can be used in mobile phone display holder (visual merchandising) at retailers  and used it when exhibiting the Galaxy S20. The holder is designed to be re-used for new smartphone models by  simply replacing a small number of parts, thus contributing to the efficient use of resources. 
031 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Earth Day Campaign - Take-back and Recycling of E-waste Starting from 2015, our employees have celebrated Earth Day on April 22 with consumers  to promote a range of sustainability campaigns. In South Korea, we have collected unused  mobile phones to extract and reuse materials such as metals and plastic, or to upcy- cle some of the units. In 2019, we expanded this program to other countries including the  United States, Spain, and Russia. In addition, we gave away plant pots, eco-conscious sou- venirs, and brochures on environmental awareness to customers at 25 our service centers  around the world. 
Galaxy Clean-up Partnership   - Used Mobile Phone Collection and  Recycling in Africa In emerging countries, including many Afri- can nations, mobile phone recycling infra- structure is scarce, so most of the wasted  phones are often discarded in landfills. To  minimize the environmental impact, we  launched the Galaxy Clean-up program in  the Netherlands in partnership with T-Mo- bile and social enterprise Closing the Loop.  Under this program, together with our  partners, we buy, collect and recycle two  scrap phones from Africa for every Galaxy  S10e sold to a consumer through T-Mobile.  As of end of 2019, more than 10,000 used  mobile phones were collected and recycled  through this partnership. 
Expanding Take-back and Recycle of E-waste 
We have established an e-waste take-back system to expand the efficient recovery and recycling of e-waste. As a  result, we globally run various collection and recycling activities such as self-collection, consignment collection, and  stakeholder collaboration, all of which are customized to regional characteristics. The Re  Program is our most rep- resentative e-waste recycling program, through which end-of-life electronics products are collected through our  stores and service centers across the globe. The collected e-waste is recycled using responsible methods, and recov- ered materials are reused as resources to reduce virgin feedstocks. Of these, mobile phone batteries are processed  through the four steps of drilling, dipping in salt-water, drying, and crushing to extract rare metals such as cobalt  and nickel, to increase resource recycling. Since 2009, we have established and operated  Samsung Requirements for  Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Managing', which includes compliance with environmental, health  and safety laws, management of suppliers, and prohibition of illegal export of waste. 
From 2009 to 2019 we have collected a total of 4.03 million tonnes of e-waste. In 2019, the Asan Recycling Centre, our  recycling facility in South Korea, collected 24,524 tonnes of valuable resources including copper, aluminum, steel and  plastic. Some 1,882 tonnes of recycled plastics collected from e-waste were used in product manufacturing. Through  these efforts, we continue to reduce the plastic waste and the use of petrochemical raw materials needed to manu- facture new products. 
Galaxy Upcycling - Used Mobile  Phone Turned to IoT Device Galaxy Upcycling is a program that trans- forms Samsung Galaxy phones that are no  longer in use into Internet of Things (IoT)  devices that can contribute to the envi- ronment and society. Since 2017, we have  supported the development of a medical  device that can screen for eye diseases,  which resulted in the production of a med- ical device which costs only 10% of the  price of the commercial device. In 2019,  a total of 90 devices were distributed in  Vietnam, enabling preemptive eye check- ups for more than 14,000 people. 
Re  is Samsung Electronics' signature   recycling program, meaning  Re  makes    PLUS  to the environment , designed to   increase resource efficiency.  
Kvadrat Phone Case - Plastic Waste Turned into Smartphone Case Cover Under a partnership with premium Dan- ish textile brand Kvadrat, we developed a  special Galaxy S20  case cover, made up  of recycled plastic waste. Two phone cases  can be created from the yarns made from  just one 500ml plastic bottle. Through this,  we minimize environmental impacts by  reducing plastic bottle waste, and encour- age upcycling by creating new products. In  addition, Kvadrat's recycled materials pro- duction process consumes less energy than  conventional materials production pro- cesses, reducing CO  emissions from the  manufacturing process.  
As part of our support for the United Nations  Sustainability Development Goals, we have  donated a portion of the revenue from these  case sales to the United Nations Develop- ment Program Programme(UNDP). 
032 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
PRIORITY AREAS Labor    Human Rights 
ALIGNMENT WITH UN SDGS 
[Goal 8] Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable  economic growth, full and productive employment and  decent work for all 
8.5   By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and  decent work for all women and men, including for young  people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work  of equal value 8.7   Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate  forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and  secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of  child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers,  and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms 8.8   Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure  working environments for all workers, including migrant  workers, in particular women migrants, and those in  precarious employment 
033 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Samsung Electronics respects the freedom and fundamental rights entitled to all people. We ensure equal opportuni- ties for all employees and job applicants, and do not tolerate discrimination of any kind. We also respect the freedom of  association of all our employees. Furthermore, we embed and integrate the respect for human rights throughout our  business to protect and promote the rights of employees of our company and of people in our supply chain.  
Our Approach and Actions to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 
Labor and  Human Rights   Policies and  Education 
Labor and  Human Rights  Adverse  Impact   Risk  Management 
Stakeholder   Engagement 
Grievance  Resolution 
   Compliance with international  human rights guidelines such as  UN Guiding Principles on Business  and Human Rights and RBA Code  of Conduct as well as local laws  and regulations 
   Raising employee awareness on  compliance to labor and human  rights policies and procedures 
   A system to identify the adverse  impact on labor and human rights  as well as potential risks 
   An implementation assessment  process to minimize adverse  effects on labor and human rights 
   Committed to active communication   with stakeholders to improve and  strengthen labor and human rights 
   Grievance system to detect hidden  risks and adverse impacts on labor  and human rights 
   Prohibiting disadvantageous  treatment to those who file  complaints and ensuring  transparency of grievance  procedure 
Approach Actions 
   Respect employees  labor and human rights in  accordance with Samsung Electronics  Global Code of  Conduct and Business Conduct Guidelines 
   Establish policies in accordance with international human  rights guidelines as well as local laws and regulations to  protect employees' labor and human rights 
   Execute worksite-specific labor and human rights  obligatory training programs 
   Operate various types of channels in and outside the  company to identify adverse impacts on labor and human  rights  
   Establish evaluation and inspection system for risks and  adverse impacts on labor and human rights 
   Periodically assess compliance with the labor and   human rights policies, the status of internal management,  external environmental risks, and additional evaluation  for high-risk situations 
   Consistently monitor labor and human rights impact  assessments and seek improvements  
   Develop and operate Grievance Resolution Channels  tailored to the characteristics of each worksite in  accordance with Samsung Electronics  guidelines 
   Offer various grievance channels that are easily  accessible to external stakeholders as well as employees 
   Ensure transparent disclosure of grievance resolution  process, prohibition of disadvantageous treatment for  those who file complaints, and protection of employees   actual and procedural rights in the grievance resolution  process  
   Communicate with employees through in-house  channels such as works council to protect employees   rights and improve working conditions 
   Communicate with external stakeholders through  various channels such as multistakeholder forums and  investor roadshows to discuss external stakeholders   point of interest in labor and human rights 
034 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Labor and Human Rights Policies   Education 
Labor and Human Rights Policies 
We have established a robust set of labor and human rights policies based on: Universal Declaration of Human  Rights, the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs)  Organization for Economic  Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises  UN Convention on the Rights of the  Child (UNCRC)  International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work   the ILO Core Conventions. We abide by the Code of Conduct of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) and comply  with the laws and regulations of the countries where we conduct our business.  
To protect labor and human rights, we have established various policies and regularly evaluate our compliance status  and explore ways to enhance our policies. In addition, we strive to protect the human rights of vulnerable groups, such  as children and juvenile workers, migrant workers, and apprentices. Furthermore, in the United Kingdom, we comply  with the United Kingdom's Modern Slavery Act 2015 and issue a dedicated statement of compliance every year. We are  also taking reference to this law to prevent forced labor and human trafficking at our and our suppliers' worksites and  strengthening our managerial system and stakeholder engagement in other countries as well.  
Labor and Human Rights Training 
To comply with our labor and human rights policies and raise employees' awareness, we have developed training  programs tailored to the characteristics of workplaces and are strengthening our regular training for our employees  every year. In 2019, 96% of employees at overseas production subsidiaries and 100% of employees in South Korea  completed training programs.   We especially strengthened our training program in South Korea with modules on  anti-discrimination, bullying, and sexual harassment in the workplace. In cooperation with external stakeholders, we  provided special training on protecting vulnerable groups such as migrant workers. In 2020, we will launch a new  developed labor and human rights training program in collaboration with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) for  all our employees, including those in production worker, supervisors, and management. This training contains dif- ferent content according to employee job position and function, but all programs aim to address all labor and human  rights topics including what labor and human rights employees naturally have, why labor and human rights matter to  business, what our company's and employees' responsibilities are for respecting labor and human rights, and how to  bring labor and human rights into practice.  
Footnote:  1) 125,081 overseas employees, 98,513 employees in South Korea 
   Management policies for migrant workers in worksites 
   Corporate efforts to eradicate forced labor 
   Measures to end forced labor and remedies for victims 
Ethical Recruitment Training Program with  International Organization for Migration (IOM) 
In Malaysia and Hungary, together with the Interna- tional Organization for Migration (IOM), we trained  our human resource personnel, as well as those from  our suppliers and recruitment agencies, on the ethi- cal recruitment of migrant workers. Through this, we  were able to raise awareness on protecting the rights  of migrant workers and share the importance of erad- icating forced labor. 
Contents of Training 
   Understanding modern slavery and migrant workers 
   Laws and regulations related to migrant workers   in each country 
STEM   Capability Development Training  with Indonesia Business Coalition for Women  Empowerment (IBCWE) As a global company, we seek to continuously  strengthen the capabilities of female employees. In  Indonesia, along with the Indonesia Business Coali- tion for Women Empowerment (IBCWE), an imple- menting partner of ILO, we provided female employ- ees with the Mind-Set training module of STEM  education program developed by ILO to strengthen  their capabilities. 
Contents of Training 
   Vision Setting 
   Critical Thinking 
   Teamwork 
   Time Management 
   Problem Solving 
Footnote: 1) Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics 
035 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Labor and Human Rights Impact   Risk Management 
Our Global Labor Issues (GLI) Committee manages the impacts and risks on labor and human rights. The GLI Com- mittee, which convenes bi-weekly to discuss labor and human rights issues, consists of executives and working-level  employees from five functions (Human Resources Team, Legal Office, Partner Collaboration Center, Global Public  Affairs Team, Global EHS Center). Any important matters are escalated to the Sustainability Council, which consists  of key executives, and then reported to top management. 
Labor and Human Rights Impact   Risk Identification 
We operate a system that identifies and monitors factors that can affect employees' labor and human rights through  a range of internal and external channels. 
Worksite Monitoring System Our worksite monitoring system supports the enforcement of labor and human rights and compliance management  in areas such as working environment, workplace culture, operation of representative bodies, and management of  suppliers. The system, provided in 12 languages, including English, Chinese, Vietnamese, and Spanish, evaluates 55  items in seven areas   every year, and is instrumental in identifying worksites that need in-house expert consultation  to strengthen capacity and make improvements. 
Footnote: 1)  Communication, Organization Management, Employee Relationship Capacity, Employee Committees, Training, Compliance, Supplier  Management  
Listening to Employee Opinions We listen to our employees and understand their needs and concerns about labor and human rights through a vari- ety of communication channels. In 2019, for example, we held 30 top management-led Townhall meetings, which were  attended by 14,260 employees   in South Korea. Attendants were informed of business updates and participated in a  question and answer session with the management on various agenda including work environment and benefits. Out- side of South Korea, heads of subsidiaries hosted 236 similar sessions, where 77,329 employees attended. In addition, we  encourage our department heads to meet frequently with team members to discuss matters related to their work rela- tionships and career development. A total of 766 meetings were held and 21,182 employees attended  .  
Footnote:   1) Including duplicate attendees 
Listening to External Stakeholders To identify labor and human rights risk factors that could impact our worksites around the world, it is also important  to engage with our external stakeholders. To do this, we engage in regular dialogue with governments, academia and  civil society. In 2018, we hired international experts in human rights to identify key issues in labor rights while listen- ing to independent specialists' advice, which further strengthened our stakeholder communication. 
Labor and Human Rights Impact   Risk Assessment and Audit  
We periodically evaluate the level of labor and human rights compliance and monitor improvement activities. 
Samsung Electronics Internal Risk Assessment Every year we use our workplace monitoring system to identify those worksites which are considered high-risk and  then conduct a detailed analysis of each of them. In 2019, we performed assessments in six locations, including two  in Southeast Asia and one in Europe. As a result, a total of 99 tasks that required improvements were identified, of  which 82 tasks (82.8%) were completed. 
036 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Process of Samsung Electronics Internal Risk Assessment 
Footnotes:  1) Employees trained in the RBA methodology 2) 51 items in the fields of labor and human rights, health and safety, environment, and business ethics 3)  27 items in human rights and legal compliance  41 items in human resources policy, employee representative bodies, etc.    10 items in infrastructure  10 items classified as  other  
Responsible Business Alliance Audit Management System As a member of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), we apply their Code of Conduct across our businesses and  our supply chain. We use the RBA on-site audit protocols to identify the working environment risks in labor, health and  safety, environment, business ethics, and management system so we can implement corrective action plans. 
In 2019, we worked with RBA approved auditing firms to assess compliance with local labor laws and RBA assess- ment standards at ten production sites in four countries. As a result, two worksites in Brazil - Campinas and Manaus  - received the RBA  One Star  Award for the first time among our production sites. Three requirements for the Award  are a minimum of silver grade   from an RBA-VAP (Validated Assessment Program) on-site audit, a fully functioning  workers forum operated by the worksite, and having trained one or more RBA Certified Factory Lead. 
Footnote:  1) For factories with a minimum VAP score of 160 and all Priority findings closed 
Stakeholder Engagement 
Samsung Electronics communicate with stakeholders through various channels, addressing our position on their  interests as well as our major activities. As well as hosting multi stakeholder forums in Vietnam, we actively par- ticipate in initiatives such as the Responsible Labor Initiative (RLI) from the RBA, and communicate with investors  through IR ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) roadshows. We communicate with our employees to ensure that  we respect employees' rights and improve employees' working conditions. We also engage in continuous dialogue to  seek mutual solutions and detect and prevent potential risk factors. 
Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) Communication From 2018 to 2019 in Vietnam, we conducted the Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) based on the three prin- ciples of UNGPs: Protection, Respect, and Remedy. For an objective review, we identified potential labor and human  rights risks with expert support of BSR through employee interviews, document reviews and stakeholders engage- ment. While we did not detect any human rights violations in need of immediate action, we established remediation  and mitigation measures for areas where further progress could be made, using recommendations from BSR. As part  of our continuous improvement efforts, we share our findings, recommendations, and multiyear action plan with the  stakeholders involved and interested in our HRIA.  
Select assessment  targets 
Audit team set up  
Self assessment 
On-site audits 
Follow-up  management  
   Based on assessment result of the worksites monitoring system, select two to three worksites every  six months that require capabilities enhancement and general improvements 
  Each business division to select six experts in labor and human rights   
   Self assessment of sites based on the inspection checklist 
   On-site audits based on 139 criteria using RBA standards   and Samsung Electronics' standards   
   Share inspection results with the management team of respective worksite 
   Establish future improvement plans and measures to prevent recurrence within one week from the  completion of inspection 
   Implement improvement tasks by forming a task force consisting of experts in human resources and  environmental safety 
   Monitor progress of improvement tasks on a monthly basis via worksite monitoring system 
Description 
037 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
The works council of each worksite holds regular meetings to discuss various agenda items to improve the working condi- tions of employees, including wages and welfare. In 2019, a total of 2,165 items were proposed, of which 1,939 (89.5%) items  were resolved. The results of consultations are disclosed to all employees through internal communications channels.  
Multistakeholder Forum Since 2018, we have hosted multistakeholder forums in Vietnam. In 2019, we discussed women's rights and wom- en's empowerment in the Vietnam with Vietnam General Federation of Labour (VGCL) and the Center for Studies and  Applied Sciences in Gender - Family - Women and Adolescents (CSAGA). Various stakeholders, including the Vietnam- ese government, over 200 guests from various NGOs, media, academia and experts, participated to share research  findings and opinions. The forum opened up a discussion on corporate policies, practices and implications on prevent- ing sexual harassment, women leadership, and women's empowerment. 
Global Investor Communication We hold IR ESG roadshows in North America, Europe, and Asia for global investors to share our sustainability man- agement performance and plans, and had a question and answer session on topics such as our Human Rights Impact  Assessment (HRIA). We reflect investors' opinions in our sustainability management plan and activities and will con- tinue to strengthen investor communication using various channels.  
Works Council A total of 42 worksites around the world operate works councils in accordance with the laws of the respective coun- tries and the requirements of each site. Employees elect their own representatives under the principle of direct and  anonymous voting. 
Works Councils Agenda in Worksites (2019) 
Infrastructure 35% (673 items) Others 28% (547 items) 
Wage and benefits 13%(250 items) 
Europe  , North America,   Central Latin America 
Works Councils by Region (2019) 
South Korea 
Southeast  Southwest Asia and  others 
Footnotes: 1) Appointment of workers' members under the applicable laws from among all consultative members (3 to 10 by workplace) 2) European Works Council was established in 1996 
Works Councils  (number) 
 Members of the Works Councils  (person) 
2019 TOTAL 1,939 items 
Environment and safety 7% (143 items) 
Policy and system 10% (186 items) 
Workplace culture 7% (140 items) 
Represented Employees  (person) 
038 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Grievance Resolution 
We recognize that a grievance, understood as a perceived injustice evoking an individual's or a group's sense of enti- tlement according to UNGPs, can be any kind of proposal or claim raised by our employees, including complaints  about their working environment.  
Channels and Status 
Based on our Grievance Resolution Guidelines, we operate four types of grievance resolution channels  : hotline,  online, offline channels, and Works Councils. The channels are provided in the various languages. In addition,  worksites employing migrant workers provide information on grievance resolution channels in their native lan- guages to enhance employee accessibility and grievance channel effectiveness. Furthermore, we operate Samsung  Electronics' Global Business Ethics   Compliance system  , corporate hotline  , and email account   to listen to the  opinions of various external stakeholders. 
Footnotes: 1) 300 channels at 29 worksites, as of March 2020 2) https:  sec-audit.com 3) https:  www.samsung.com sec,  82-2-2255-0114 4) civilsociety samsung.com  
Grievance Report Ratio by Resolution Channel (2019) 
A total of 11,828 grievances were reported in 2019, out of which all grievants were addressed within our grievance  handling timeline. Details of the resolution were also provided. The number of grievances has declined over the past  three years. In particular, the number of grievances regarding working environment decreased by 1,462 (33%) from  4,403 in 2017 to 2,941 in 2019. As part of our efforts to provide a better working environment in 2019, we established of a  healthcare center in Vietnam, installed reflectors for worksite safety in Brazil, expanded resting spaces and remodeled  restrooms in Slovakia, and upgraded the company's cafeteria in Russia. In addition, grievances relating to workers right  have resulted in improvements of policies, internal processes and increased capacity building efforts throughout the  entire organization. 
Grievance Reports and Types  
Types of Grievance 
Work conditions 
Work environment 
Interpersonal relationships 
Health and safety 
Work change 
Organizational change 
Harassment 
Discrimination 
Employee Committees  
Unit: No. of reports 
039 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Our grievance resolution procedure is based on the  Effectiveness criteria of non-judicial grievance mechanisms  as  stipulated by the 31st clause of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Anyone can raise their con- cerns, free from any discrimination and retributions, and can expect the procedure to be fully transparent and pro- tect the human rights of the involved throughout the entire process. If we decide that discipline is deemed necessary  after a thorough review of the reported grievance, we provide fair chances for the accused to appeal against the find- ings. Our disciplinary actions comply with the laws and regulations of the respective countries and also with the poli- cies of each worksite. We evaluate our procedure periodically to make improvements to the procedure. 
Footnote: 1) If each step is not processed by the time frame due to reasonable reason, the grievant will be notified of specific reason 
Description 
Time   frame   
Grievance Resolution Procedure 
Grievance Case Our grievance procedure applies to our suppliers as well as our employees. In 2019, one of our employees was dissat- isfied with the security screening process required for entering the worksite and spoke abusively to a security com- pany employee. His case was handled as follows:  
   Security company  employee filed grievance  (Security company  employee in charge     security company manager     worksite security manager     worksite grievance   resolution manager) 
STEP 1   Grievance Report  
  Employees and external  stakeholders report all  grievances related to   the company    A case manager is   designated 
Notification of receipt  within 24 hours Within 5 days of receipt Within 7 days of receipt Varies by case 
Grievance Report   
   Identified facts and  reviewed remedial   measures after   conducting interviews  with grievant, accused,  and witnesses 
STEP 2  Grievance Confirmation  and Review 
  Confirm details and facts  of reported grievance     Listen to grievant about  desired measures    Review remedial   measures according to  confirmed details 
Grievance Confirmation  and Review 
   Notified plan for   measures to grievant   and gathered grievant's  opinion  
STEP 3  Results Notification 
  Deliver results of review  and gather feedback from  grievant  
Results Notification  
   Disciplinary action and  training to perpetrator   to prevent recurrences 
STEP 4  Grievance Resolution 
  Grievance is resolved  through measures such as  training, disciplinary action  against the accused,   providing useful   information or support,  and improving   infrastructures, related  policies and procedures  
Grievance Resolution  
040 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
PRIORITY AREAS Privacy   Cybersecurity 
ALIGNMENT WITH UN SDGS 
[Goal 9] Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive  and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 
9.c   Significantly increase access to information and  communications technology and strive to provide universal  and affordable access to the Internet in least developed  countries by 2020 
041 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
To protect consumers' personal data, we introduced the Samsung Data Protection Guidelines and operate local pol- icies that reflect relevant laws and regulations of each country. Moreover, we are consistently providing training to  our employees through our Data Protection Handbook, Privacy Policy on Data Sharing with Third Parties, and other  personal data protection guidelines. We will continue to support our employees to recognize the importance of per- sonal data protection and to apply related polices and regulations to their practices. 
Personal Data Protection Principles 
Samsung Electronics respects and protects users' personal information when they are using our mobile phones,  smart TVs, and various other products and services. 
Organization for Personal Data Protection 
   Conducts audit on personal data protection   and provides training to business divisions   Promptly responds to issues 
   Establishes strategies, policies, and relevant   processes to protect personal data    Provides legal advice and support on issues related  to personal data    Examines and takes measures to prevent security  issues related to our products and services   Provides employee trainings to raise awareness 
Privacy Offices in Business Divisions Privacy Offices in Regional Offices 
Global Privacy Office 
Users' Right of Choice Samsung Electronics respects the users' right to make choices on the use of their personal data.  Therefore, we let users decide on whether to allow us to collect, use, and share their data with  third parties when using our products and services. 
Better User Experience Personal data is used to provide a more customized experience for consumers when they use  Samsung Electronics' diverse products and services lines. 
Ensuring Stability Personal data collected during the use of our mobile phones, smart TVs, other products and   services is safely protected through measures such as encryption. For instance, we designed and  applied the fingerprint and face recognition technology on our mobile phones so that customers  can use their phones and access their personal data safely. 
   Makes decisions on important policies and   protection measures associated with personal data  protection    Shares agenda set by each products and business  divisions and discusses solutions 
   Conducts audit on personal data protection and   provides training to the headquarters of the regions   Promptly responds to issues 
Privacy Steering Committee 
042 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Management Process for Personal Data Protection 
Footnote: 1) Samsung Electronics joined the International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAPP) in 2015 
Personal Data Protection Training All employees including our top management are required to take mandatory training on personal data protection  every year. In addition, we provide a specialized offline training curriculum for employees who handle personal data  during their daily tasks. 
Privacy Legal Management System (PLMS) To comply with the related regulations on personal data, we operate a Privacy Legal Management System (PLMS). In  conjunction with the Product R D and Product Life-cycle management system, PLMS examines the security risk of  personal data protection at each stage of the products' and services' life-cycles from planning, development, opera- tion, to discontinuation, and prevents them in advance. In addition, we regularly provide news updates and reference  materials so that employees can stay up to date with the latest trends in personal data protection. 
Samsung Privacy Portal We respect our customers' right to make choices on the use of their personal information. In 2019, we launched Sam- sung Privacy Portal  , a dedicated website that gives a comprehensive overview of how we manage personal data. On  this site, customers can check the status of devices and services linked to their Samsung account, and view our latest  privacy policy. 
Footnote: 1) Samsung Privacy: https:  privacy.samsung.com    
Personal Information Protection Training Status   
82,744 Footnote: 1) Scope: All employees in South Korea  
Monitor personal data  protection global trends by  analyzing related laws and  regulations and by joining  international associations   
Set up personal data   protection policies, personal  data processing outsourcing  guidelines, and a data breach  response process while   providing training to   employees 
Policies Set up and Training 
Operate personal data   protection programs by  business divisions and  regions 
Programs Operation 
Conduct audits on the  implementation of personal  data protection policies and  operations 
Guide action items for  improvement based on the  findings 
Audits and Improvements 
Unit: person  
043 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
PASTE SITES 
SNS, BLOGS 
CODE REPOSITORIES 
THREAT FEEDS 
Cybersecurity 
With the number of cyberattacks continuing to rise, cybersecurity remains a key focus for us. Protecting the integrity  of our systems, safeguarding personal data, and protecting our reputation is imperative. As a leader in the mobile, TV,  and consumer electronics industries, we are committed to a significant investment in the highest level of security in  our products and services. We comply with international regulations related to cybersecurity and protect our cus- tomers' fundamental rights. 
Actions for Cybersecurity Enhancement 
We have established a process of detection, analysis, prevention, and protection as the four core actions for cyberse- curity. We design products and implement security solutions based on these four areas.  
Detection Potential cybersecurity threats can be reduced through proactive detection. We operate an AI-based cybersecurity  threat analysis solution that continually scans for malicious and suspicious cyber activities. The solution collects and  analyzes public security vulnerabilities and gives early warnings to relevant departments on potential security threats. 
DETECTION ANALYSIS PREVENTION PROTECTION 
THREAT  ANALYTICS  PLATFORM 
  Up -to-date Threat Situation Awareness    On-going Attack Awareness    Predicting Potential Threat 
PRIVATE SHARING 
BUG BOUNTY 
Restricted 
Samsung  Internal 
044 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Analysis To automatically analyze and systemically manage known security vulnerabilities, such as the information from  Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE), we developed the AI-enabled vulnerability analysis system. Through  this system, we are efficiently preventing known vulnerabilities to enter into our products. 
In addition, we actively engage with external developers to create more reliable security systems. One example is  through our bug bounty program, which rewards developers who detect security vulnerabilities in our products and  software and offer suggestions to resolve the issues. 
Prevention We are committed to protecting our products against cybersecurity risks, any security vulnerabilities, and potential  threats detected throughout the product design and production stages. To support this goal, we standardized our  process and developed a security implementation program, Security Development Life cycle (SDL). It eliminates the  potential security vulnerabilities in the product throughout all phases of the software development process, includ- ing planning, design, implementation, verification, operation, and maintenance. We implement the security develop- ment management system based on SDL to efficiently perform overall security tasks from diagnosing the security of  products to mitigating vulnerabilities and security check data control. 
Security Development Life cycle Process 
   Security require- ments identification    Requirements   specification 
   Threat modeling    Security design   and review    Set up security  controls 
Implementation  
   Secure coding    Development   security guide    Code security   diagnosis   Improvements 
   Vulnerability   diagnosis   Mock test 
Verification  
  Monitoring   Security patch 
Operation and  Maintenance 
045 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Common Criteria DISA FIPS 140-2 FIPS 140-2 NCSC ASD 
Protection If personal data such as credit card transactions, passwords, and health information stored on electronic devices  leaks, it can severely jeopardize the safety of individuals and their property. To safeguard personal information from  cybersecurity risks, we developed a military-grade security platform called Samsung Knox. Our Knox security plat- form consists of highly secure multilayer defense and security mechanisms that can protect data from malicious  software and threats. It also complies with the nine principles of data protection we have already established. The  platform has successfully met the rigorous security requirements set by governments and major enterprises around  the world, providing business users with a robust mobile security solution. We are gradually expanding the range of  Knox security platform coverage from smart phones, tablets and smart TVs to smart home appliances, IoT and 5G  devices. 
The Basic Principles of Knox Security Platforms 
Knox Certifications 
ANSSI CCN AIVD Traficom ISCCC STRK 
Hardware Root-of-Trust Validated Cryptography 
Protected Communication Hardware Backed Security 
Authentication Disable Backdoors 
Secure Firmware Update Protected Storage 
Device Integrity   Protection and Detection  
046 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
PRIORITY AREAS Corporate   Governance 
ALIGNMENT WITH UN SDGS 
[Goal 16] Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for  sustainable development, provide access to justice for all  and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions  at all levels  
16.6   Develop effective, accountable and transparent  institutions at all levels 
047 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Under the principle of transparent and responsible business practices, our Board of Directors operate to support our  management to lead the company in an innovative and proactive manner. The Board of Directors helps management  to make right decisions by reviewing and resolving matters stipulated by law or the Articles of Incorporation, matters  delegated by a general meeting of shareholders, and important matters related to our fundamental business poli- cies and operations, as well as supervising the management s actions. The composition and operation of the Board  of Directors are determined by our Articles of Incorporation and the Regulations of the Board of Directors, which are  stricter than the standards stipulated by the Commercial Act of South Korea. This enable us to enhance the indepen- dence, transparency, expertise, and diversity of the Board. 
Board Composition 
The Board of Directors can be composed of three to fourteen members in accordance with Article 24 of the Articles of  Incorporation. Although Article 383 of the Commercial Act stipulates that the Board only needs three or more mem- bers, we allow up to fourteen members considering the scale of our business, and the need to increase the efficiency  of operations and decision making. As of March 31, 2020, our Board of Directors consists of eleven members, six of  whom are Independent Directors, in accordance with Article 542-8 of the Commercial Act, which requires a com- pany to have at least three Independent Directors who constitute more than half of the total number of Directors. The  Board composition, as of end of March, 2020, is as follows. 
Independence and Transparency of the Board 
The majority of our Board of Directors is composed of Independent Directors, and the position of CEO and Chair- man of the Board have been separated since 2018 to ensure stronger independence and transparency. In 2020, we  appointed an Independent Director as Chairman of the Board for the first time to bolster responsible management  centered around the Board of Directors to further improve our corporate governance.  
The Chairman of the Board listens to the opinions of the Executive Directors and the Independent Directors and acts  as an intermediary so that he can supervise the company's management activities more objectively. The Independent  Directors hold separate meetings where they can freely exchange their opinions on a wide range of business matters,  including how to enhance shareholders' value.  
Directors are appointed by a resolution of a general meeting of shareholders in accordance with Article 382 of the  Commercial Act. Executive Directors are elected from among the candidates recommended by the Board, while Inde- pendent Directors are appointed from among the candidates recommended by the Independent Director Recom- mendation Committee pursuant to Article 542-8 of the Commercial Act. According to the same Article, the majority  of the Independent Director Recommendation Committee must be composed of Independent Directors. Following  the Article, our Independent Director Recommendation Committee consists entirely of Independent Directors and  nominates candidates through fair procedures. 
Board Composition 
Jae-wan Bahk  
Hyun-Suk Kim 
Dong-Jin Koh 
Jong-Hee Han  
Yoon-Ho Choi 
Sun-Uk Kim 
Byung-Gook  Park 
Han-Jo Kim 
Chairman of the Board    Independent Director 
Vice Chairman   CEO (DS) 
President   CEO (CE) 
President   CEO (IM) 
President   Head of  Visual Display 
President   CFO 
Independent Director 
Independent Director  
Independent Director 
Independent Director 
Independent Director 
Title and Roles    
Management  Committee  
Audit   Committee  
Independent Direc- 
tor Recommenda- 
tion Committee 
Related Party  
Transactions  
Compensation  
Committee  
  CHAIR,   MEMBER 
Governance  Committee  
048 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Expertise and Diversity of the Board 
We believe a Board with a diverse array of skills and expertise is a powerful enabler in making important strategic  decisions in a rapidly changing business environment. Our three main business divisions-Device Solutions (DS), Con- sumer Electronics (CE), and IT   Mobile Communications (IM)-are run by our best experts in the field, who participate  in the Board's activities as both CEOs and Executive Directors to practice responsible management. 
Our Independent Directors are appointed from various fields, such as finance, legal, engineering, IT, public adminis- tration, and EHS. They are chosen regardless of nationality or gender to provide their diverse view in Board discus- sions. This composition ensures the Directors can discuss the Board's agenda from a variety of perspectives and to  supervise and advise the management both objectively and professionally. 
Characteristics of The Board 
Board Operation 
The Board holds seven to eight regular meetings each year to discuss matters, such as approving quarterly financial  statements and convening the AGM and calls extraordinary meetings when deemed necessary. Pursuant to Article  30 of the Articles of Incorporation and Article 8 of the Regulations of the Board of Directors, the Board meeting is  convened by the Chairman, who notifies all Directors of the date, time, venue, and agenda of the meeting at least 24  hours prior to the meeting. Each Director has the authority to request the Chairman to convene a meeting for rea- sons deemed necessary after sharing the agenda item and the reason behind the request. If the Chairman rejects  a request for a meeting without a valid reason, the Director who made the request may convene a meeting directly. 
In accordance with Article 31 of the Articles of Incorporation and Article 9 of the Regulations of the Board of Direc- tors, a resolution of the Board is approved by a majority of the votes cast by the Directors present at the meeting,  with more than half of all the Directors in attendance, unless otherwise stated in the relevant laws. Under Article  391 of the Commercial Act, the Board may adopt a resolution without all or some of the Directors being present at  the meeting in person, provided that they attend the meeting by means of a remote communications system that  enables the simultaneous transmission and receipt of the voices of all the Directors. Directors who participate in the  meeting through this method are counted as present. Pursuant to Article 9 of the Regulations of the Board of Direc- tors, we limit the voting rights of any Director who has a special interest in the agenda in order to systemically elimi- nate potential conflicts of interest. 
Board Committees  
The Board of Directors delegates specific responsibilities to six committees to ensure efficient operation in accor- dance with Article 28-2 of the Articles of Incorporation and Article 11-2 of the Regulations of the Board of Directors.  The six committees are the Management Committee, Audit Committee, Independent Director Recommendation  Committee, Related Party Transactions Committee, Compensation Committee, and Governance Committee. 
The Management Committee is composed of five Executive Directors, to whom the Board of Directors has delegated  authorities for the purpose of making prompt decisions on business matters. The other five committees are com- posed entirely of Independent Directors in order to ensure their independence. The organization, operation, and  authority of each committee are set forth in the Regulations of the Committees approved by the Board. 
All Directors are notified about any agenda passed by a Board Committee. Any Director may call on the Chairman  to hold another Board meeting to put an approved item to another vote, when deemed necessary. However, items  approved by the Audit Committee are excluded from revoting to ensure its independence. 
Independence 
Those who are full-time employees, affiliated  to the company's largest shareholder or has  important interests linked to the company itself,  or recently worked at the company within the  past two years are prohibited from serving as  Independent Directors 
Expertise  
Independent Directors are appointed from  among individuals with extensive knowledge  and experience in the fields of management,  economics, finance, accounting, legal,  technology, sustainability, etc 
Candidates for the Board of Directors are  not discriminated according to religion, race,  gender, nationality, or field of expertise 
Transparency 
All Directors are appointed by a resolution of a  general meeting of shareholders 
049 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
The Roles and Composition of the Board Committees 
External Contributions 
2019 Social  Contribution Fund  
Samsung Dream  Scholarship  Foundation 
Sponsoring the  WorldSkills  Competition 
Donation to  Chungnam Samsung  Institute 
Contribution to the  Korea Occupational  Safety   Health  Agency 
Performance  incentive to suppliers  of the DS division  
Financial Support   for start-up program  at Daegu, Gyeongbuk  Creative Innovation  Center  
Donation to Heemang  2020 Nanum  Campaign 
Contribution 
   Deliberates and decides on  matters related to business  management, finance and other  matters delegated by the Board of  Directors 
   Ensures that the company fulfills  its corporate social responsibility  and enhances shareholder value    Composed of six Independent  Directors 
Management Committee 
Independent Director   Recommendation Committee Related Party Transactions   Committee Governance Committee 
KRW 1.12 billion    
KRW 11.73  billion    
EUR 1.5 million  (approximately  KRW1.95 billion) 
KRW 2.991  billion  
KRW 31.0 billion      
KRW 77.45  billion    
KRW 12.0 billion  
KRW 31.0 billion    
   The Social Contribution Fund consists of voluntary  contributions by employees and matching funds raised by  the company. In 2019, the company matched the employees'  donation of KRW 11.73 billion. 
   The contribution is used for domestic and overseas volunteer  programs as well as local social contribution activities. 
   The contribution was made to support the education of low- income high school students.  
   The contribution was made to WorldSkills International as the  top sponsor of WordSkills Kazan 2019.  
   The contribution was made to improve the educational  environment of the region.  
   The fund was used for an occupational safety and health  center and related infrastructure for workers in the electronics  industry.  
   The contribution was provided to 296 primary and secondary  suppliers of the DS division to prevent work accidents, improve  productivity, and promote co-prosperity of the company and its  partner companies. 
   Vitalize start-up ecosystem and contribute to job creation to  nurture start-ups in South Korea. 
   Donation to Daegu Gyeongbuk University Start-up.  
   Daegu Gyeongbuk University Start-up established a fund with the  donation from Samsung Electronics. 
   The contribution was made to the Community Chest of  Korea to fulfill corporate social responsibilities and help the  marginalized.  
   Supervises matters concerning  the overall management, including  the company's financial status    Composed of three Independent  Directors 
   Recommends candidates for  independent directorship by  assessing their independence,  diversity and capabilities     Composed of three Independent  Directors 
Audit Committee Compensation Committee 
   Ensures the objectivity and  transparency of decisions related  to directors' compensation    Composed of three Independent  Directors 
   Enhances corporate transparency  by voluntarily complying with fair  transaction regulations    Composed of three Independent  Directors 
April 30, 2019      
January 31, 2019    
February 26, 2019    
July 31, 2019  
November 29, 2019    
Date of Approval 
050 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
PRIORITY AREAS Compliance 
ALIGNMENT WITH UN SDGS 
[Goal 16] Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for  sustainable development, provide access to justice for all  and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions  at all levels 
16.3   Promote the rule of law at the national and  international levels and ensure equal access to justice for all 16.5   Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their  forms 
051 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Compliance with laws and ethical standards is the top priority of our business principles. We have established a com- pliance management process to operate our business guided by the laws and regulations of each country in which we  do business. 
Compliance Management Process 
Our Compliance Team, previously under the Legal Office, now reports directly to the CEO and the head of Compliance  Team attends all board meetings to support important decisions made by the board. We operate dedicated organi- zations at each business division and overseas regional offices to manage compliance issues pertaining to each busi- ness and region. We operate the Compliance Program Management System (CPMS), which is an IT system designed  to manage compliance-related risks. It provides employees with detailed compliance policies related to specific  fields, as well as information on regional issues and updates on regulatory trends. In 2020, we revised the global  anti-corruption and bribery policy and prepared detailed guidelines for employees to refer to when performing their  duties, including the external sponsorship guideline. If employees have questions about work or require assistance  determining the legality based on the guidelines, they can seek 1 on 1 consultation from experts at the help desk  available through CPMS. We also operate a whistle-blowing system within the CPMS and website, in accordance with  the principles of identity protection and prohibition of providing disadvantages to whistle-blowers. Relevant depart- ments support together the company's compliance-related activities across fields including ethics management, pri- vacy protection, intellectual property, human resources, environment, trade, and more. 
Compliance Management System by Field 
Major fields of Compliance Management 
Footnotes: 1) Privacy Legal Management System   2) Global HR Portal   3) Global Environment, Health   Safety System   4) Trade Compliance System 5) Global Policies   Procedures Manual 
Ethics Management  System 
Contract  Management System 
    Employee training, region-specific  guidelines, systematic self-audit, help  desk, sensing and management of new  or revised laws and regulations 
Fair  trade 
1   Prevention 
Intellectual  property  rights 
Overall  compliance 
Ethics  management 
Privacy protection  
Intellectual  property rights 
Human resources  
Environment 
Anti- corruption Trade  Labor and  Human  rights 
Compliance violation reports, help desk,   self-monitoring, manuals and guidelines 
Business principles and misconduct reports  
Protection and management of personal data in  products and services 
Prohibition of illegal software use  
Compliance with labor standards, provide human  resources regulations 
Environmental safety of worksites and products 
Strategic use of materials and conflict minerals 
Standardization of global business process 
Standardization of global business process  
Consumer  rights   protection 
    Regular and ad-hoc monitoring  by dedicated team or staff 
Personal  information  protection  privacy 
2   Monitoring 
    Analysis of root cause of issues,  countermeasures and preemptive  measures such as education and  training 
3   Follow-up management 
Compliance Team  
Corporate Auditing Team  
Global Privacy Office  
Corporate IT Strategy Group  
Corporate HR Team  
Global EHS Center 
Compliance Team 
Corporate Management Team 
Corporate Legal Office  
Responsible Units 
Environment  and safety Sub- contracting 
052 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Compliance Training 
In an effort to minimize the risk of violating laws and regulations, we provide customized training that reflects the  regulatory trends and business environment of each worksite. The training program which includes customized  training for each department, training for employees before dispatch, self-training for overseas worksites, among  others, is designed for each employee's level of awareness on related topics, position, and regional characteristics.  We also distribute compliance guidelines that employees can refer to in their everyday tasks. 
Compliance Training 
Footnote: 1) The topic of online training varies each year. 
All employees in South Korea Online   
Method Description Target Topic 
Basic Compliance  Training 
Compliance   training on anti-  corruption, fair  trade, and trade  secrets 
Advanced Compliance Training 
Global regulatory trends and  Samsung Electronics' major issues 
Area-specific compliance training  considering job characteristics  such as fair trade, trade secrets,  personal data, intellectual  property rights, anti-corruption,  and advertising 
Introducing South Korean  and international laws and  regulations on anti-corruption,  fair trade, and trade secrets 
Compliance guide   and key regional issues 
Work precautions 
New subsidiary leaders, foreign  employees, prospective regional  experts, prospective expatriates,  etc. 
Key managers of each  department, employees who  requested special training 
New employees and   career changers 
053 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Samsung Compliance Committee 
Samsung Compliance Committee (the  Committee ) was officially launched on February 5, 2020, with the purpose  of implementing  Integrity  management, the core value of Samsung, by strengthening the compliance and control  functions of Samsung's seven affiliated companies.   
The Committee was established as an independent organization separate from Samsung Electronics to ensure inde- pendence and autonomy and is led by the chairman, Kim Ji-Hyung, a former Supreme Court Justice, who is well-re- puted in the society. The Committee consists of five external members, including the chairman and one internal  member. The external members of the Committee were appointed in consideration of their fields of expertise and  experience in law, accounting, economics, administration, and other professional fields in corporate compliance. 
The Committee may review Samsung Electronics' external sponsorship expenditures and internal transactions, and  present its opinions to the company, such as to the Board of Directors, and if the Committee detects a risk of com- pliance violation by the top management, it may notify the Board of Directors and provide opinions. The Commit- tee may also make appropriate recommendations regarding the establishment of the compliance monitoring poli- cies and plans, compliance monitoring programs and system improvements. In addition, the Committee can directly  receive reports on compliance violations by the top management, and if a risk of compliance violation is detected, the  Committee may require the compliance officer to investigate, report the results of the investigation, and take cor- rective measures. If the Committee believes the investigation was inadequate, it may conduct its own investigation  on the matter. The Committee holds regular meetings once a month, and additional meetings as necessary, and is  actively operating by such as receiving reports on compliance violations via the Committee s website. 
The Committee will continue to operate in an independent position without interruption to ensure that compliance  becomes deeply rooted in Samsung's culture. Samsung Electronics will secure more advanced compliance moni- toring systems as a global company, and thoroughly manage the risk of compliance violations by the company and  the top management. Samsung Electronics will continue to put its best efforts to implement its core value, Integrity  management, and to become a company that is trusted and respected by society. 
Footnote: 1)  Samsung Electronics, Samsung C T, Samsung SDI, Samsung Electro-Mechanics, Samsung SDS, Samsung Life Insurance,   and Samsung Fire   Marine Insurance 
Sustainable Supply Chain 094 Technology for Good 076 
Commitment to the  Environment in our   Operations 056 
SUSTAINABILITY  PILLARS 
Product Stewardship 062 
Investing in our Employees 084 
Corporate Citizenship 070 
COMMITMENT  TO THE  ENVIRONMENT  IN OUR  OPERATIONS 
SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS 
We are committed to reducing the environmental impact of our   
business. We focus on 3R activities - Reduce, Reuse and Recycle   to  
use less and recycle more of our water resources. We also operate a  
management system to treat pollutants by appropriate processes  
and are engaged in a range of activities designed to help preserve   
biodiversity in the regions where we do business.  
ALIGNMENT WITH UN SDGS 
12.5.   By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through  prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse 
[Goal 6] Ensure availability and sustainable management  of water and sanitation for all 
6.3.   By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution,  eliminating dumping and minimizing release of hazardous  chemicals and materials, halving the proportion of untreated  wastewater and substantially increasing recycling and safe reuse  globally 
[Goal 12] Ensure sustainable consumption and production  patterns 
[Goal 15] Protect, restore and promote sustainable use  of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests,  combat desertification, and halt and reverse land  degradation and halt biodiversity loss 
15.5.   Take urgent and significant action to reduce the  degradation of natural habitats, halt the loss of biodiversity and,  by 2020, protect and prevent the extinction of threatened species 
2019 HIGHLIGHTS 
Percentage of EHS Management   Systems Certification   
Percentage of Waste Recycled 
Water usage  
67 tonnes  KRW 100 million 
Footnote: 1) Scope: Production sites across the globe 
058 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Green Management Water Resource Management 
Samsung Electronics engages in a variety of environmental protec- tion activities at all our worksites, as well as with our suppliers and  local communities all over the world. We comply with  Environmen- tal Safety Policy  and manage the workplace environment sector  based on the Environmental Management System (ISO 14001) and  Energy Management System (ISO 50001). We have established four  major KPIs in EHS management, GHG emissions, water resources,  and waste management, and track our progress and performance. 
Key EHS Performance Indicators 
EHS management systems   (%) GHG emissions    (tonnes CO e  KRW 100 million) 
Water usage    (tonnes KRW 100 million) 
Footnotes:  1)  Percentage of ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 certified manufacturing   sites across the globe  2)  Total emissions   global revenue    excluding display sales, applying price index (2005 1) 3)  Total usage   global revenue    excluding display sales 4) Total recycled amount   Total waste generated X 100 
We provide new sustainable experiences to customers   through innovative environmentally conscious products and  technologies and lead the sustainable future of the global society 
We contribute to the preservation of human life and   the global environment through business practice   that respects people and nature. 
1. A slogan that expresses our commitment to  corporate social responsibility and sustainability  management through business practices that  prioritizes environment protection 
2. The circular shape of the logo stands for the  earth and a new beginning, and the green and  blue colors represent a fertile earth and water  that will last generations  
Our Philosophy 
Waste recycle rate   (%) 
Water Resource Policy 
Water resource management is an integral part of protecting the  environment surrounding our worksites and at the same time, an  essential part of the product production process. We focus on the  3Rs   Reduce, Reuse, Recycle   in managing water resources. Each  of our worksites sets a water consumption target considering the  water resources situation in the region as one of our KPIs. 
Water- stressed  regions  
Water Withdrawal by Region 
Of all the countries where we operate in globally, five are identified  as water-stressed countries, where a total of twelve worksites are  based. 
Ensure clear and transparent disclosure of corporate policies  and activities regarding the use of water resources to our  stakeholders, including local communities 
We recognize the importance of water in sustainable, social,  and corporate management and fulfill our responsibility as a  global corporate citizen to protect water resources. 
Based on guidelines on water resources, actively cooperate  with local and central governments as well as international  organizations, to establish and execute policies aimed at   protecting and conserving water resources 
Minimize water resource risks in business management 
Establish the preservation and sustainability of water  resources as part of our corporate culture  help employees  understand their responsibility for water resource   management and consider the impact of our operations on  local communities and environment as a top priority 
Evaluate the impact of our business activities, such as   production on water resources, to minimize risks while   continuing to explore and introduce new technologies 
Disclose our water resource policies and activities 
Recognize the importance of water resources   as part of our corporate culture 
Number of  worksites  
Actively cooperate with external policies   on the protection of water resources. 
Withdrawal   
Action Guidelines 
Our Philosophy 
Discharge    
Unit: thousand tonnes 
South Korea (7),  India (2), Poland (1),   Egypt (1)  
South Africa (1) 
Water Risk Assessment and Strategy by Region 
Water Management Strategy 
We use water management tools developed by the Food and Agri- cultural Organization (FAO) to identify whether our worksites are  located in water-stressed regions. To determine water stress of  each water basin and the water-related risks for every ten years,  we utilize the tools developed by the World Business Council for  Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the World Resource Insti- tute (WRI). We also use CDP's Water Guidance to subdivide the  water risks at our worksites located in water-stressed regions and  respond with risk-specific strategies. 
South  Korea     
South  Africa     
All  regions 
Water Resource Management Activities 
We strive to minimize the amount of water used in the manufac- turing process, while maximizing wastewater purification and its  subsequent reuse. We classify water resources into four catego- ries: sewage, wastewater, industrial water, and ultra-pure water.  In order to increase water reuse at each regional subsidiary, the  amount of water reused in each category is managed and mea- sured through the Global Environment, Health   Safety System  (G-EHS system) every month. We have installed underground  water pollution prevention facilities where required, and dis- charged water is safely treated using internal and external treat- ment facilities. When discharging used water directly into a stream  through our in-house treatment facilities, we apply in-house stan- dards that go beyond the required legal standard. 
059 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Regulatory  risk     
Physical   risk    
Physical   risk     
Physical   risk  
Physical   risk  
Regulatory   risk     
Physical   risk   
Physical   risk   
Regulatory  risk   
Regulatory  risk   
Reputational  risk  
Degradation  of water  quality 
Discharge       
Degradation  of water  quality 
Water   outages  
Regulatory  change in  water use   and discharge  
Efficiency- based  legislation 
Uncertainty  over new  regulations 
Lawsuits  related to  wastewater 
   Build wetlands and dikes to protect worksites  from flooding of nearby rivers    Renew catastrophe insurance each year and  regularly check flood control equipment 
   Increase frequency of on-site water quality  analysis and improve the efficiency of water  treatment facilities 
   Establish an emergency response system  and conduct regular drills in preparation for  wastewater leaks caused by river-flooding  around the worksites 
   Install water storage tanks capable of  operating production facilities for an average  of one day 
   Treat sewage and wastewater from worksites  in the terminal treatment facility within the  industrial complex (no in-house sewage  wastewater treatment facility in operation) 
   Secure water quality through the pre-intake  water treatment process  
   Install dual water intake facilities and water  collection facilities to prevent production  delays 
   Abide by in-house criteria that are stricter  than the legal discharge standards in each  countries  
   Review water efficiency when building new  facilities and invest in improving the water  efficiency of existing facilities 
   Continuously monitor global environmental  regulations  
  Continuously monitor effluent discharge     Promptly build an environmental  management system for new manufacturing  sites 
Water Reuse Rate Trend Unit: % 
Water Use Reduction Activities We maximize wastewater reuse rates through everyday reduc- tion efforts, such as optimizing our worksites, replacing old  valves and improving operation standards. We also pursue struc- tural improvements, such as improving our manufacturing pro- cesses and establishing recycling systems. As a result, we reused  68,555,000 tonnes of water in 2019, up 10% from the preceding  year. At our semiconductor plants that show high water usage, we  changed the process control values, switched wastewater treat- ment methods, and optimized operations and as a result, achieved  daily water savings of 4,461 tonnes, exceeding our savings target.  In addition, the Pyeongtaek site, which had installed large-scale  new water facilities over past few years, set mid- to long-term  water reduction targets, optimizing facility operation efficiency  and applying existing saving measures. 
Water reuse rate 
Water Resource Flow  
External   treatment facility 
Industrial water 
2019 World Water Day Celebration To celebrate World Water Day each year, our manufacturing  sites across the globe carry out river and marine ecosystem  conservation activities together with local governments, civil  organizations and nearby schools. In 2019, more than 5,000  employees from 26 worksites in countries including South  Korea, Mexico, and Vietnam, took part in volunteer activities  to help preserve ecosystems near worksites. These activities  included cleaning up nearby streams, conducting water pres- ervation education initiatives and campaigns, and other water  resources CSR activities. 
Sources of water supply 
Municipal water 
Manufacturing  process 
In-house  treatment  facility 75,364 
Samsung  Electronics 
Underground water 
Unit: thousand tonnes 
Waste Management 
060 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Waste and Pollutant Management 
In an effort to minimize waste generated during manufacturing  processes, we developed and mange process-specific waste con- trol systems, including a product design and manufacturing pro- cess that considers resource efficiency. All our global worksites  monitor the amount of waste generated and recycled every month  in order to achieve a waste recycling target of 95%. Worksites that  fail to meet their target are encouraged to improve the recycling  rate by analyzing the waste disposal methods. 
Zero Waste to Landfill To promote a resource circulation system with zero waste to land- fill sites, we strive to develop waste disposal technologies and  increase waste separation. In 2019, we developed and applied a  recycling technology that extracts copper from copper sludge and  produces crude copper (97% copper). In addition, we improved  recycling levels by separating and disposing of waste synthetic  resin that was previously incinerated. In recognition of such effort,  our Hwaseong worksite in South Korea received the Presidential  Citation at Leading Companies in Resource Recirculation in Sep- tember 2019 from the Korean Ministry of Environment. 
Waste Management Plan 
Product   Development 
Waste   Transport  
Waste   Treatment 
Waste   Discharge 
   Operate an eco-design evaluation  process 
   Evaluate eco-friendliness in the  development phase (resource  efficiency, environmental  hazardousness, energy efficiency) 
   Comply with conventions on  the border control of hazardous  wastes 
   Monitor the routes of   waste-carrying vehicles 
   Visit waste treatment service  providers and check their  compliance level on a regular basis 
   Perform annual environmental  assessments on treatment service  providers (operational capability,  environmental management, etc.) 
   Set waste recycling rate targets 
   Strengthen environmental impact  reduction activities (develop and  switch to low-toxic substances,  neutralize toxic substances, etc.) 
Pollutant Management As part of our effort to reduce emissions of air pollutants, we intro- duced a nitrogen oxide (NOx) reduction system, a catalytic oxida- tion process, and electric dust collector facilities. In accordance  with the Montreal Protocol, all our worksites are also expanding  the use of refrigerants that have less impact on ozone depletion  in freezers, air conditioners and other appliances. Furthermore, in  2019, we reduced the discharge of water pollutants by 98% at our  South Korea worksites by optimizing the operation of wastewater  treatment facilities. 
Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) Reduction Activity We increased our efforts to reduce nitrogen oxides, a major com- ponent of fine dust, through new technology development and  high-efficiency treatment facilities. At those worksites that pro- duce NOx emissions, we installed ultra-low NOx burners in the  boiler facilities and managed to reduce NOx emissions by 90%. At  semiconductor plants, we improved the efficiency of NOx emis- sion reduction through the optimization of primary emissions con- trol equipment operation used at the final stage of the treatment  process. We have established plans to reduce NOx emissions at all  worksites in South Korea by 2023 and established the Samsung Par- ticulate Matter Research Institute to seek a technological solution  applicable to products and manufacturing process.  
Biodiversity Conservation 
Biodiversity Conservation Policy With the principle of preserving biodiversity, we have created  action guidelines and have reflected them in our business plans.  At the same time, we are continuing to raise employee awareness  about biodiversity conservation.  
Endangered Species across  Worksites in South Korea Unit: no. of species 
061 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
All employees recognize biodiversity conservation activities   as an important value of green management. 
We continuously communicate with stakeholders including  employees, local communities, and NGOs, and contribute to  improving biodiversity conservation in local communities. 
We recognize the benefits and effects of the ecosystem   and biodiversity. We endeavor to minimize negative impacts   on biodiversity and actively promote ecosystem   conservation initiatives. 
We evaluate, analyze and strive to minimize the negative  impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity throughout the  entire product life-cycle 
All worksites place priorities on areas with high   biodiversity value and engage in activities to preserve   biodiversity according to regional characteristics. 
Impact Assessment and Minimization 
Biodiversity Conservation Activities 
Value Recognition 
Action Guidelines 
Communication 
Our philosophy 
River Biodiversity Improvement Activities Our worksites in South Korea periodically measure water qual- ity indicators, such as chemical oxygen demand (COD), biochemi- cal oxygen demand (BOD), and acidity (PH), to monitor ecological  effects in surrounding streams. We also promote habitat protec- tion activities to save endangered species nearby. Furthermore,  we carry out river ecosystem conservation activities with environ- mental organizations, as well as family members of our employees  and local students. 
Ecological Impact Analysis on Nearby Streams 
Improving the Ecological Environment     Reviving Osan Stream Osan Stream, a 15km-long national river that flows from  Yongin to Pyeongtaek used to be known as one of the most  deteriorated streams with lack of water. Local communities,  environmental groups, and Samsung Electronics have gath- ered to save Osan Stream, and since 2007, we have purified  water used in the semiconductor manufacturing process more  strictly than the water quality standards guided by the govern- ment. We have released an average of 45,000 tonnes of water  into Osan Stream per day, and as a result, the ecological envi- ronment of Osan Stream was greatly improved to the extent  that rare otters, wild animals that only inhabits in clean rivers,  were found. 
Seojeongri  Stream,  Pyeongtaek 
Wonchenri  Stream,  Hwaseong 
Osan   Stream,   Giheung 
Measurement Authority  Kyunghee University Fish  1,493 individuals from 12 species (carp 88%,  mudskipper 5%) Ecosystem  Benthic invertebrates were observed  (insects 45%, dominant species: Diptera 40%) Ecotoxicity  No impact on the stream was found  in effluent 
Measurement Authority  Korea Ecology     Environment Institute (KEEI) Fish  169 individuals from 14 species (crucian carp  36%, carp 16%) Ecosystem  Benthic invertebrates were observed  (insects 64%, dominant species:   Cheumatopsyche 12%) Ecotoxicity  No impact on the stream was found  in effluent 
Measurement Authority  Pyeongtaek University Fish  195 individuals from 10 species (Dominant  species: crucian carp, subdominant species: carp) Ecosystem  Benthic invertebrates were observed  (dominant species: red midge, subdominant  species: tubifex) Ecotoxicity  When assessed discharged water, no  impact on the stream detected 
PRODUCT  STEWARDSHIP 
SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS 
opment, use, and disposal. Based on our vision of  differentiated   
customer experience through product quality and service innova- 
tion , we make various efforts to extend product life through enhanced  
durability. We have also established a common customer service  
across the globe, customized services by country, and differentiated  
We practice product stewardship to minimize our environmental   
impact throughout the entire process of product planning, devel- 
ALIGNMENT WITH UN SDGS 
[Goal 12] Ensure sustainable consumption and production  patterns 
12.2.   By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient  use of natural resources 12.5.   By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through  prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse 
[Goal 13] Take urgent action to combat climate change and its  impacts 
13.3.   Improve education, awareness-raising and human and  institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation,  impact reduction and early warning 
2019 HIGHLIGHTS 
GHG Emissions Reduction in the Product Use Phase   
Customer Satisfaction   
270  million tonnes CO e 
(Target in 2020: 250 million tonnes CO e) 
85.4 points 
Footnotes: 1) Accumulated amount since 2009 2) Source: Ipsos 
Eco-Design Process 
064 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Eco-conscious Products 
Eco-conscious Product Policy We strive to enhance product stewardship to minimize the envi- ronmental impacts throughout the entire product life cycle   from  purchasing raw materials, to development, manufacturing, dis- tribution, usage, and disposal. From the product design stage, we  apply our Eco-Design Process to assess the level of resources and  
Our Product Stewardship System 
Eco-Design From the product design stage, we use our own environmental- ly-focused evaluation system called Eco-Design Process to assess  the environmental sustainability of products. We also refer to cred- ible eco-certification standards, such as the Eco-Label in South  Korea, the Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool  (EPEAT), and the American Association of Home Appliance Manu- 
 Distribution    Use sustainable packaging materials and   sustainably-sourced paper    Compact and lightweight packaging    Reduce GHG emissions and use of fuel by optimizing  logistics 
 Manufacturing   Expand renewable energy use at worksites   Minimize water consumption and increase reuse   Recycle worksite waste into resources   Use chemical alternatives at worksites 
 Development    Plan products that consume less energy and  resources    Design products that are easy to disassemble and  recycle   Life extension design of product    Purchase materials and parts that do not contain any   hazardous substances     Expand the use of sustainable resources, such as  recycled materials   Do business with certified  Eco Partners  
Eco-Design  Process Goal setting Final verification Evaluation and improvement 
Product  Development  Process 
Eco-Design  criteria Environmental hazards Energy efficiency Resource efficiency 
Product   planning 
Development   planning Development   implementation 
Samsung Electronics 
Recycling Company 
facturers (AHAM)'s sustainability standards. We use our Eco-De- sign Process to ensure that each product development project  establishes eco-conscious goals, which is followed by evaluation  and improvement, and determines product production with final  verification. 
energy we use, as well as harmfulness of raw materials used in  products. This enables us to plan and develop products that have  greater energy efficiency, use fewer resources, and do not include  hazardous substances. 
 Use    Use energy-efficient products to reduce indirect  GHG emissions    Enhance product performance, upgrade firmware,  and extend product warranty 
 Repair and Reuse    Continuously expand service centers worldwide    Extend product lifespan by providing remote and  expert diagnosis services 
 Take-back and Recycling   Operate take-back programs in each country   Extract and reuse materials from waste products   Run a closed-loop recycling system for waste  resources 
Product   mass-production 
Energy-efficient Products Our environmental experts share trends in energy-saving technol- ogies and environmental regulations through the company-wide  Eco Council and working-level committees to support the devel- opment of energy-efficient products. In 2019, we applied various  energy-saving technologies to our products, including a high-ef- ficiency compressor for refrigerators and a high-efficiency heat  exchanger for air conditioners. As a result, we were able to reduce  annual energy consumption by an average of 42% compared to  2008.   We also established greenhouse gas emissions caused by  energy consumption during product use stage as a major KPI. 
Footnote:  1)  Scope of data collection: 7 major product categories - refrigerators, air con- ditioners, washing machines, televisions, monitors, laptop computers and  mobile phones 
Efficient Use of Resources  We remain focused on making products and packaging materi- als smaller and lighter. For the Galaxy S10 released in 2019, we  reduced the use of disposable plastics through an improved pack- aging design. As a result, the weight was cut by about 30 grams per  unit and also lowered the logistics costs. 
065 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Product's Environmental Information   - Life Cycle Assessment 
We perform a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to analyze the  environmental impacts of the entire life cycle of our prod- ucts across product manufacture, use, and logistics stages  and reflect the results in our product development. In 2019,  for example, we performed an LCA on a 24-inch monitor  (model: S24E650PL) during which we attained an Environ- mental Product Declaration (EPD) from Underwriters Labo- ratories (UL). We analyzed the impact of monitor products on  global warming by evaluating them through 12 environmen- tal impact categories   in the process of pre-manufacture,  manufacture, distribution, use and disposal. As a result, we  saw that the  use  phase had the largest impact at 76% out of  all stages. This is because a large amount of greenhouse gas  is emitted in the process of producing the electricity con- sumed during the  use  phase. Based on these results, we will  try to minimize the power consumption and standby power  of monitors by reflecting these results from the develop- ment stage. 
Footnote: 1)  12 major environmental impact categories: Global warming, acidifi- cation, eutrophication, ozone depletion, formation of photochemical  oxidants, human toxicity, freshwater ecotoxicity, seawater ecotoxicity,  soil ecotoxicity, primary energy consumption, water consumption, and  waste generation 
Results of global warming impact   assessment of a 24-inch monitor (S24E650PL) 
Global   Warming 
Pre-manufacture 
Manufacture 
Distribution 
Chemical Substances Management We conduct rigorous pre-inspection and follow-up management  for parts and raw materials that contain substances of concern. We  especially ensure the highest level of control through the  Stan- dards for Control of Substances used in products , which incorpo- rates international environmental regulations, including the EU's  Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and the Registration,  Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). In  addition, we have committed to reducing the use of substances of  concern, such as polyvinyl chloride (PVC), brominated flame retar- dants (BFRs), beryllium, and antimonides. We also operate the  Environment Chemicals Integrated Management System (e-CIMS),  designed to determine the existence of restricted substances in the  parts and products of our suppliers, to ensure that our products do  not contain any. Furthermore, we have established an environmen- tal analysis laboratory that can analyze RoHS regulations (6 items  and Phthalate) to strengthen our internal monitoring process. In  2019, our environmental analysis laboratory was credited with the  Korea Laboratory Accreditation Scheme (KOLAS) certification, adding  reliability to our data analytics and experimental capability.  
Chemical Substances Management History 
Footnotes: 1) Brominated Flame Retardants  2) Polyvinyl Chloride  3) Perfluoroctanesul- fonate  4) Hexabromocyclododecane  5) Bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate  6) Butyl  benzyl phthalate  7) Dibutyl phthalate  8) Diisobutyl phthalate  9) Diisononyl  phthalate  10) Di-isodecyl phthalate  11) Di-n-octyl phthalate  12) Di-n-hexyl  phthalate  13) Bis(2-methoxyethyl) phthalate  14) Di-iso-pentyl phthalate  15)  n-Pentyl-isopentyl phthalate  16) Di-n-pentyl phthalate,  17) Polyhexamethy- leneguanidine hydrochloride  18) Oligo(2-)ethoxy ethoxyethyl guanidine chlo- ride  19) Polyhexamethyleneguanidine hydrochloride  20) Chloromethylisothi- azolione  21) Methylisothiazolinon 
   Established a technical-tree to reduce the use of BFRs     (supply chain improvement)   Banned the use of BFRs in packaging materials 
  Set out plans to reduce the use of BFRs and PVC   
  Released mobile phones free of BFRs PVC (some models)   Banned the use of PFOS   and antimony compounds 
   Released newly developed mobile phone camera MP3 player  products free of BFRs PVC   Banned the use of cobalt chloride 
  Released mobile phones free of beryllium compounds 
   Banned the use of chlorinated flame retardants in mobile phones  and MP3 players    Released PVC-free products (laptops, TVs, monitors, and some  home theater components) 
   Released products free of phthalates or antimonides (laptops,  TVs, monitors, and some home theater components) 
  Banned the use of HBCD   and nonylphenol 
   Banned the use of four types of phthalates for new   components (DEHP  , BBP  , DBP  , DIBP  ) 
   Banned the use of four types of phthalates (DEHP, BBP, DBP, DIBP)  for all components 
   Banned the use of an additional eight types of phthalates (DINP  ,  DIDP   , DnOP   , DnHP   , DMEP   , DIPP   , nPIPP   , DnPP   )  from July 2019    Banned the use of sterilizers anti-corrosion agents (PHMG   ,  PGH   , PHMB   , CMIT   , MIT    for products with filters   (air conditioners, air purifiers) 
066 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Progress in Eco-conscious Products 
Global Environmental Certifications 
Eco-Label and Environmental Product Declaration We seek to develop eco-conscious products certified by eco-label  and environmental product declaration. In 2019, we acquired a total  of eight eco-certifications by countries and institutions, including  the Eco-Label in South Korea, the China Environmental Labeling in  China, UL in the United States and TCO in Sweden, and about 900  certification models. We also obtained environmental product dec- laration including the Carbon Trust   in the United Kingdom, Water  footprint   in South Korea, and the UL Environmental Product Dec- laration(EPD)   in the United States. 
Footnotes: 1)  Mobile phone products including Galaxy S20, 5th Generation 512Gb V-NAND  memory product 2) SSD 850 EVO 250G memory product  3) Display products including S24E650PL 
North   America 
Central   Latin America 
Environmental Product Declaration 
United Kingdom Carbon Trust 
United States United States 
South Korea China 
South Korea Water Footprint 
Northern Europe 
United States 
Company      
Product      
Green Technology Certification As of end of 2019, we have obtained nine green technology certifi- cations from the Korean Ministry of Environment, including moni- tor standby power reduction technology. 
Environmental Activities Recognition Awards in 2019 
The development of high energy-efficient products and sustainable  packaging, as well as our take-back and recycling schemes have  helped garner praise from a range of government agencies and inde- pendent organizations. We are particularly proud to have received  the Partner of the Year   Sustained Excellence Award recognition by  the US EPA seven times in total since 2013, and the Energy Winner  Award of the Year in South Korea every year since 2015. 
Home  appliances    
United  States    
South  Korea              
United  States      
Green Technology Areas  
Improved efficiency of the air conditioning   indoor unit, washing machine tub clean- ing technology, monitor standby pow- er-saving technology, etc.  
Automated power-saving wireless LAN  technology  
Name   of Award 
ENERGY  STAR  Award 
SMM   Elec- tronics   Chal- lenge  Award 
ENERGY  STAR  Award  
Korea  Star  Awards,  Future  packag- ing tech- nology  
Energy  Winner  Awards  of the  Year      
Green  Product  Awards  of the  Year 
SMM   Elec- tronics  Cham- pion  Award 
Organizer  
United States  Environmental   Protection Agency 
United States  Environmental   Protection Agency      
Ministry of  Natural Resources  Canada 
Ministry of  Trade, Industry  and Energy  Korea Institute  of Industrial  Technology  Packaging  Technology Center 
Ministry of  Trade, Industry  and Energy  Consumers Korea        
Korea Green  Purchasing  Network    
United States  Environmental  Protection Agency 
November          
March              
July              
Description  
Partner of the Year    Sustained Excellence  Award 
 Gold Tier  for  leadership in e-waste  collection and  recycling    
Manufacturer of the  Year - Appliances    
Prime Minister's  Award for non-plastic  packaging in Galaxy  S10          
8 products  (Wind-free air  conditioner, induction  range, monitor, laptop,  refrigerator, drum  washing machine,  dishwasher, system air  conditioner)  
5 products (Galaxy  S10, T9000, induction  range, Wind-Free  Gallery, AirDresser)  
Galaxy Upcycling's  eye diagnosis camera  (Cutting-Edge Award) 
No. of  Certifications 
Sustainability Highlights in Our Products in 2019 
067 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Mobile DRAM  (12Gb LPDDR5) 
LED TV  (UN65RU7100) 
   1st grade energy efficiency in South Korea 
   Eco-sensor, Energy Saving mode 
   Screwless design (productivity , recyclability ) 
   Use of sustainable materials (biomaterials: accessories bag) 
   Use of sustainable forest certification papers  (packaging, manual, wrapping paper) 
Pen S  (NT950SBE) 
   Reduced yearly energy consumption by 31%   (compared to NT940X3M) 
   Battery life increase 3x with the application of    Smart charging  technology 
   Energy Winner Awards of the Year, ENERGY STAR Award  
BESPOKE Refrigerator   (RF85R96A1AP) 
  1st grade energy efficiency in South Korea 
   Customizable door colors material combination 
   Triple cooling system 
   The Plasma Ionizer cleans 99% of bacteria inside  
   Precise cooling technology 
QuickDrive  Washing Machine  (WW80M6450PW) 
   QuickDrive  technology   which combines main drum with rotating plate  
   Cuts washing time by up to 50%   without compromising cleaning performance 
   Highest Energy-efficiency class in Europe with A   (-40%) 
   Completes washing to drying within 3 hours 
   Offers industry-leading speed 
   Features 30% higher power efficiency compared to LPDDR4  DRAM 
   Designed with new low-power circuit structure 
Smartphone 
(Galaxy S10 ) 
   High-efficiency charger   (charging efficiency: 86%, no load power: 0.02W) 
   Use of sustainable materials (bioplastic: earjack housing,   recycled plastic: charger housing, polyketone: camera module) 
   Use of sustainable forest certification papers 
   Korea Star Awards, Future packaging technology 
Wind-Free  Cube Air Purifier  (AX90R9980SSD) 
   99.999% removal of 0.3  dust 
   Reduces power consumption by 30%   compared to Samsung AX7500 air purifier 
   Extends filter life twofold with Filter Saver  
   Non-chemical electrostatic active filter sterilization  
   Applies Cube Design 
Wind-Free Air Conditioner Gallery   (AF25RX975CAR) 
   Wind-free cooling mode reduces energy   use by maximum 90%  compared to   Max cooling mode in wind-free cooling mode  
   Large Capacity air purifier (114m )  
   e-HEPA filter collects 99.95% of 0.3um dust  
   Filter can be washed with water 
   Filters sterilize 99% of bacteria  
Airdresser  (DF10R9700CG) 
   Saves water and detergent usage   by reducing the frequency of dry cleaning and washing 
   High energy efficiency heat pump   clothing care technology 
   Uses filters designed for removing dust and odor 
   Removes 99.9% of virus and harmful bacteria 
  Filter function can vary by model region 
Server SSD  (30.72TB PCIe Gen4 SSD, PM1733) 
   Offers fastest read (7GB s) and write (3.8GB s)   speeds to date 
   Allows 13X faster speed than SATA SSD 
   Provides competitive durability and product lifespan   (1 drive write per day)  
068 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Customer Service 
Customer satisfaction is one of the most important factors in  securing competitive advantages. We are committed to delivering  an outstanding customer experience at every contact point and  have developed a customer-centric approach under our customer  service vision,  Differentiation of customer experience through  product quality and service innovation . This ensures our customers  have a consistent, high-quality experience at every stage of their  journey, from product purchase and use, to any subsequent inter- actions.  
Customer Service Channel We strive to provide a consistent high-quality experience for all our  customers no matter where they are in the world. This is achieved  through a global service channel, supported by local customized  expertise at a regional level. We also strive to enhance customer  convenience by providing special service channels using the latest  digital technology.  
Globally Operated Service Channel 
Service Centers 
As of end of 2019, we are operating 15,866 service centers in 197  countries for the convenience of customers. Expert service cen- ter managers and repair engineers strive to provide the service to  customers in accordance with our Service Process Guide. We also  operate training programs such as product use guides and intro- duction of new product functions to our customers. 
Country Optimized Service Centers 
Extended Service Center Hours during Ramadan   
in the Middle East During Ramadan, we offered customized services and extended  our opening hours to cater to the needs of customers in the Mid- dle East. During fasting, we also provided a delivery service for  repaired products so customers did not need to wait in the service  center.  
Smart Service Booth during Lebaran in Indonesia 
During Lebaran, one of the major national holidays of Indonesia, we  operated smart service booths at airports and highway rest areas,  where customers could have their products checked and software  upgraded. 
Customer Service Vision and Objectives 
   Introducing innovation to the service process from the  customer's perspective    Reinforcing and enhancing communication with customers    Enhancement of customer service value through the provision  of differentiated services    Prompt handling of customer requirements using digital  technology 
Differentiation of customer experience   through product quality and service innovation 
Differentiated Service Channels 
Visible Remote Consulting (Visual Support) 
In 2019, we began operating Visual Support which allows contact  center agents to directly observe the product and its use environ- ment in which it is used. Customers can seek assistance conve- niently through a link via SMS, without having to install an appli- cation. The agents can provide immediate assistance or initiate a  repair process. As a result, our customers can save both time and  costs. We are offering Visual Support in 30 countries, including the  United States, the United Kingdom, Spain, India, and Brazil. 
24 7 Always-On Contact Center 
We operate the 24 7 Always-On Contact Center to respond to  inquiries from our mobile phone customers even during the night- time or on public holidays. As of 2019, the Always-On Contact Cen- ter is available in 127 countries. 
Mobile Van Service 
To further enhance our customer experience, in 2019 we introduced  Mobile Van Service in countries including the United States, the  United Kingdom, and Germany. Instead of our mobile phone custom- ers having to take time out to visit a service center, we come to their  doorstep. We plan to extend the service across a wider footprint. 
Mobile Phone Rental Service 
We provide a rental mobile phone to our customers to minimize  inconvenience during the repair period. As of 2019, this service is  available in 68 countries.  
Service Quality Management 
Standardized Service Operation and On-site Audit  We establish service standards and guidelines for service cen- ters and contact centers, and distribute them across the company  through a standardized system. Each subsidiary conducts training  based on a localized version of the global guide and we share the  manual through the internal Customer Service Portal. In addition,  we conduct periodical on-site visits to check if service is provided  according to the standardized process and make improvements as  necessary.  
Service Skills Training We offer training programs for our service center managers and  repair engineers for new product repair techniques and customer  response. We offer remote video or collective training according  to the characteristics of the country and product. Managers and  repair engineers can access training material and video clips via an  online system at any time. 
Customer Communication and Performance   in Customer Satisfaction 
Integrated Voice of the Customer (VOC)   Management System 
We collect VOC feedback about purchase, repair, and the use of our  products through various channels, such as the company's contact  center, website, and applications. Together with each division, we  analyze the data collected through the integrated management  system to better customers' needs and improve the customer  experience.  
Customer Satisfaction Survey  
We have conducted periodic customer satisfaction surveys since  1994 and we share the results with the relevant departments.  Using the results, we are making improvements in areas where  customers are less satisfied with.  
The Results of the Products Service Satisfaction   Survey in South Korea in 2019 
Korean Customer  Satisfaction Index  (KCSI) 
Korean Standard -  Quality Excellence  Index (KS-QEI)    
Global Customer  Satisfaction Index  (GCSI)     
Korean Standard  Service Quality  Index (KS-SQI)  
Korean Standard  Contact Service  Quality Index  (KS-CQI)  
Korean Service  Quality Index (KSQI)        
Korean Standard  Well-being and  Environment Index  (KS-WEI) 
National Customer  Satisfaction Index  (NCSI) 
069 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Presented by 
Presented by:  Korea Management  Association Consulting 
Presented by:   Korean Standards  Association    
Presented by:  Global Management  Association    
Presented by:   Korean Standards  Association 
Presented by:   Korean Standards  Association  
Presented by:  Korea Management  Association Consulting      
Presented by:   Korean Standards  Association  
Presented by:   Korea Productivity   Center and Chosun Ilbo 
Award-winning products 
TV, refrigerator, washing machine,   air-conditioner, kimchi refrigerator,   smartphone, PC 
TV, refrigerator,   drum-type washing machine,  kimchi refrigerator,   System air-conditioner heater,  smartphone, tablet PC, Laptop PC 
TV, refrigerator, washing  machine, vacuum cleaner,   kimchi refrigerator, drier,  air cleaner, air-conditioner,  smartphone, PC 
Aftersales service for computers,  household appliances,   and mobile phones 
Household appliances and  mobile phones    
[Customer contact sector]  Aftersales service for household  appliances and mobile phones   [Call Center sector] call center  related to household appliance  service 
Washing machine, air-conditioner,  kimchi refrigerator, laptop PC,  smartphone  
Award-winning products:   TV, refrigerator, air-conditioner,  smartphone, PC 
Achievements in Customer service-related Award in 2019 
Germany      
Mexico          
Poland            
Russia         
Germany      
Austria and  Switzerland      
Columbia          
Top 5 Customer Service Businesses (November)     Presented by: El Tiempo Portafolio (most influential daily  newspaper in Columbia) The most honorable award in  Columbia, presented and congratulated by the president      Award: The only electronics company among the five award  winners (the others being: energy, fast   beverage, shop- ping and beauty care businesses) 
BEST Customer Service Award of the Year (October)     Presented by: Sotto Tempo Advertising (market research  company in France)     Award: Best Customer Service Business in three sectors  (mobile phone, TV, and home appliances) 
TOP Service Award (June)     Jointly Presented by: Emotion Banking, Die Presse, and  Mannheim University      Award: Three-times winner (2017-2019) in Austria, first  time in Switzerland 
Service Champion Award (May)     Presented by: WIWO (WirtschaftsWoche: a major weekly  business magazine published in Germany)     Award: Two-times winner in 2018 and 2019 
National People's Choice Award (May)     Presented by: GTACC (Greater Toronto Area Contact Center)     Award: Canada's Favorite Customer Service 
 Russia CX World Award (April)     Presented by: CX World Forum     Award: Grand prize in the Best Offline CX,   Excellence award in the Best Innovation in CX,   Excellence award in the Best CX Online Involvement 
Poland Star Quality Service Award (March)      Jointly presented by: JAKOSC OBSLUGI, Gazeta Wyborcza  (a newspaper company), Wroclaw Economic College     Award: First place in Customer Service in Electronics Indus- try (TV, home appliances, mobile phone), Became the first  company to win the first place for six consecutive years in  Poland (2014 2019) 
Mexico Customer Satisfaction Award (March)     Presented by: IMT (Instituto Mexicano de Teleservicios).     Award: Winner of the Best Customer Experience Strategy  (Gold), Best Omni Channel   Multichannel Strategy (Gold),  and Best Customer Service Strategy (Bronze) 
German Service Award (February)      Jointly presented by: DISQ and n-tv     Award: Four-times winner of the award (2013, 2014, 2018,  and 2019) 
ALIGNMENT WITH UN SDGS 
CORPORATE  CITIZENSHIP 
SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS 
[Goal 8] Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable  economic growth, full and productive employment and  decent work for all 
8.5.   By 2030, achieve full and productive employment  
and decent work for all women and men, including for  
young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay  
for work of equal value 
8.6.   By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of  
youth not in employment, education or training 
[Goal 4] Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education  and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all 
4.4.   By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth  
and adults who have relevant skills, including technical  
and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and  
entrepreneurship 
4.B.   By 2020, substantially expand globally the  
number of scholarships available to developing  
countries, in particular least developed countries, small  
island developing States and African countries, for  
enrolment in higher education, including vocational  
training and information and communications  
technology, technical, engineering and scientific  
programmes, in developed countries and other  
developing countries 
tunities for quality education. 
In 2019, we marked our 50th anniversary and established a new  
corporate citizenship vision entitled  Together for Tomorrow!  
Enabling People . Under this new vision, we provide a variety of  
programs that cater for local needs, in order to empower and  
provide future generations around the world with equal oppor- 
[Goal 9] Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and  sustainable industrialization, and foster innovation 
9.2.   Promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization  
and, by 2030, significantly raise industry's share of  
employment and gross domestic product, in line with  
national circumstances, and double its share in least  
developed countries 
9.C.   Significantly increase access to information and  
communications technology and strive to provide universal  
and affordable access to the Internet in least developed  
countries by 2020 
[Goal 17] Strengthen the means of implementation  and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable  development 
17.7.   Promote the development, transfer,  
dissemination and diffusion of environmentally sound  
technologies to developing countries on favourable  
terms, including on concessional and preferential terms,  
as mutually agreed 
17.8.   Fully operationalize the technology bank and  
science, technology and innovation capacity-building  
mechanism for least developed countries by 2017 and  
enhance the use of enabling technology, in particular  
information and communications technology 
2019 HIGHLIGHTS 
Total Hours of Employee Volunteering 878,448  hours 
Accumulated Number of Beneficiaries   of Major Corporate Citizenship Activities  
Samsung Solve for Tomorrow 1,693,535 people 
Samsung Smart School 3,825,864 people 
072 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Together for Tomorrow! Enabling People 
In 2019, we celebrated our 50th anniversary by announcing a new  global vision for our corporate citizenship: Together for Tomorrow!  Enabling People. The new vision draws on our core values, People,  Co-prosperity, and Change, and encompasses our promise to culti- vate talented individuals for shared growth while pursuing innova- tions that will help make the world a better place.  
Under the vision Together for Tomorrow! Enabling People, we seek to  empower future generations to achieve their full potential, enabling  them to pioneer positive social change and build a better world for all.  Our programs focus on providing quality education to future genera- tions around the world with equal opportunities for quality education. 
Global Programs  
Our global citizenship programs harness the power of our collec- tive expertise, technology, experience, and resources. Our pro- grams around the world are customized according to the country's  characteristics to achieve maximum effect. 
Samsung   Smart School Samsung   Solve for Tomorrow 
Samsung  OneWeek Samsung Innovation Campus 
Global programs 
Samsung Solve for Tomorrow  Samsung Solve for Tomorrow, designed to raise awareness of STEM  (Science, Technology, Engineering, Math), is a creativity contest that  encourages students to address local societal issues through cre- ative solutions based on STEM that began in 2010. Over the past 10  years, more than 1.69 million students from more than 20 countries  participated in Samsung Solve for Tomorrow, spreading the culture  of innovation and creativity among schools and the community.  
Smart Bicycle Helmets in the United States 
Students at the Gregorio Luperon High School for Science and  Math in New York, the United States developed a smart bicy- cle helmet that provides real time information to cyclists about  their immediate surroundings using sensors. The school was  shortlisted to be one of the national finalists and the team plans  to continue to work on this project and test different materials  for the helmet. 
High Efficiency Wind and Solar Power Generator  
Solution in Argentina 
In 2019, five students from the northern Argentinian province  of Salta won the top prize for developing a high-efficiency  wind and solar energy generator solution for underprivileged  students in underdeveloped areas deprived of electricity.  The project aimed to improve the educational environment of  indigenous children of Salta and will be reviewed for applica- tion to homes and public facilities in energy-deprived regions.  
073 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Special-use Vests for Outdoor Workers in the UAE The Samsung Solve for Tomorrow competition was held for the  first time in the UAE in 2019. Two students developed a special  vest filled with an ethylene glycol mixture that lowers body  temperature. In the UAE, there are many casualties each year  of outdoor workers including construction sites due to the con- tinuous heatwaves and temperatures of more than 50 degrees  Celsius and humidity of 80% in summer. The idea of making a  special vest to lower body temperature is expected to be used  for the safety of low-income outdoor workers in the future. 
AI Reading Helper for the Visually Impaired in China Students in Beijing, China, designed an artificial intelligence  (AI) reading helper for the visually impaired, based on their  personal experiences of volunteer work helping the visually  impaired. The device, which prints braille by combining AI soft- ware technology with open source hardware and auxiliary cir- cuits, helps blind people read traditional paper books.  
Samsung Smart School 
Samsung Smart School is a series of educational initiatives that  uses our digital device and contents. In 2019, we offered qual- ity digital education to more than 3.8 million students around the  world who have limited access to education resources. We intend  to provide digital education to elementary and middle school stu- dents and contribute to bridge the educational gap.  
Cheontae Elementary School in South Korea Cheontae Elementary School is a small school of just 24 stu- dents in a rural area. In 2019, it was selected as a Smart School  and we provided digital devices so that students could produce  their own video content to express their ideas and communi- cate with the world through digital technology.  
Energy in Schools Initiative in the United Kingdom Samsung Electronics UK and Samsung R D Institute UK  developed energy monitoring software based on our Smart- Things platform. We provided the software to 23 elementary,  middle, and high schools across the country to educate stu- dents on the importance of reducing energy consumption  and carbon emission. Through IoT coding classes, students  also learned how the SmartThings platform is programmed  and used for energy and environmental data management. 
074 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Samsung Innovation Campus  
Samsung Innovation Campus, launched in October 2019, is a tech- nological education program created for the youth entering the job  market for the first time. It builds on the success of the Samsung  Junior Software Academy, Samsung Software Academy for Youth,  and Samsung Tech Institute, which together educated more than  200,000 in around 30 countries from 2013 to 2019. Samsung Inno- vation Campus provides classroom education as well as hands-on  training in skills that technology-related job positions require, such  as AI, IoT, and data analysis. 
In Thailand, we held coding and programming training with the  Thai government s future generation education policy,  Thai- land 4.0 . The program provided students with 60 hours of  intensive training for 10 days, giving them basic to intermedi- ate coursework.  
 I think the greatest advantage of Samsung Innovation Campus  is that it offers plenty of hands-on experience opportunities.  We learned about topics and principles on coding and how it  can be used for controlling devices. Yet, we had plenty of free- dom to experiment with them in our exercises and project.  
In Turkey, we offer IoT education in cooperation with the UNDP,  Istanbul Technical University, and Turkish Informatics Founda- tion and students learn technology and skills for IoT field.  
 I was not able to participate in a job training program because  of the burden of fees. Through Samsung Innovation Campus, I  was able to get hands-on project opportunities in using soft- ware and hardware, free of charge. I was able to gain confi- dence and expertise that I could not learn from school.  
Coding and Programming Education in Thailand 
(Perapun Chittansakul) 
IoT Education in Turkey 
(Ebrar Omer) 
Samsung OneWeek 
Samsung OneWeek is our international employee volunteer pro- gram, during which we work collaboratively with local communi- ties to support young people by providing education programs that  address their unique needs. Since it was launched in 2010, more  than 2,000 employees of 59 teams have volunteered to help 10,000  participants in over 30 countries. In 2019, around 200 employ- ees participated in customized education programs in Cambodia,  Kazakhstan, Indonesia, Thailand, Nepal, and Hungary for one week.  
Training for Female Small Business Owners in Indonesia 
In July 2019, 29 Samsung employees and six undergraduate  student volunteers provided education programs in entrepre- neurship, digital marketing, and photography for 84 female  small business owners in Indonesia. Through a week-long  training course, volunteers provided them with the expertise  and know-how for successful business growth. 
Local Programs 
We also operate tailored country-level programs and collaborate  with governments, policymakers and institutions to provide a wide  variety of engaging learning opportunities.  
Samsung Dream Class in South Korea 
Launched in 2012, the Samsung Dream Class is a program where  undergraduate mentors teach English, math, and computer soft- ware to middle school students who lack access to educational  resources. The aim is to improve academic performance through  three types of programs, including weekday, weekend classes  and camps during the vacation. So far more than 80,000 students  and 22,000 undergraduate students participated in the Samsung  Dream Class. Since the launch of the program, more than 100 par- ticipating students have returned to the program as mentors to  middle school students, creating a virtuous cycle. In 2019, 7,900  middle school students, 2,300 undergraduate mentors and 44  employees participated.  
Samsung Software Academy for Youth in South Korea 
We launched the Samsung Software Academy for Youth together  with the Ministry of Employment and Labor in 2018. To increase  the competitiveness in job seeking, we provide training on theo- ries and practices for one year to those who wish to become a soft- ware developer. Trainees can strengthen basic software skills such  as algorithms, coding programming languages and databases, and  develop their software skills by using technologies such as AI and  IoT as part of an advanced curriculum. More than 350 of the first  500 trainees were employed by IT companies and financial compa- nies. As of 2020, 1,250 people are attending the academy. 
Samsung Junior Software Academy in South Korea  
The Samsung Junior Software Academy educates students on  problem-solving skills using software and helps them develop  skills in logical thinking and design skills. We provide free software  convergence program training to around 10,000 elementary to  high school students and operate a separate training program for  teachers. In 2019, 310 teachers and 9,932 students participated. 
Samsung Semiconductor Science Academy in South Korea 
The Samsung Semiconductor Science Class is aimed at middle  school students in the local community and taught by Samsung  Electronics employees. It explores the essentials of semiconduc- tors and is designed to spark their interest in the science and tech- nology fields and help them to become future scientific talents.  In 2019, 2,817 employees trained a total of 6,155 students at 50  schools. 
Samsung Hope School in Vietnam 
We opened the first school in Bac Ninh in 2013, the second school  in Thai Nguyen in 2018, and plan to open the third Hope School in  Bac Giang in 2020. Samsung Hope School provides underprivileged  students in the region with after-school courses in English and  physical education, facilities and free evening meals.  
075 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Samsung Technical School in India 
We operate 35 technical schools in collaboration with the Indian  Ministry of SMEs and Startups (MSME) and the Ministry of Educa- tion in 11 states of India. We help low-income youth in India learn  the technology of repairing Samsung Electronics' IT devices and  gain practical experience to succeed in finding jobs. Samsung Tech- nical School also operates scholarship funds to young women and  people with disabilities, so that all youth with various disadvan- tages receive equal learning opportunities. From 2013 to 2019,  7,400 students graduated from the program and 45% found jobs at  the Samsung Service Centers.  
Samsung Hope for Children in Russia 
The Samsung Hope for Children provides a digital education for  children in long-term hospital care to enable them to continue  formal education. Using digital devices, children can participate  in regular curricula online and interact freely with their parents,  teachers and friends. More than 10,000 children have benefited  annually since it was launched in 2014. Building on the success of  the program, we plan to expand the initiative to all regions in Rus- sia as well as neighboring countries such as Kazakhstan. 
076 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
TECHNOLOGY  FOR GOOD 
SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS 
We nurture creative ideas to promote an ecosystem where   
startups can flourish, while also providing support for the  
advancement of the basic sciences. We embed an increasing   
variety of accessibility features in our products and services to  
make it easier for everyone to access and use, while we are devel- 
oping digital well-being features that encourage consumers to  
use their devices in a balanced way. We also focus on the ethical  
use of fast-growing AI technologies. 
ALIGNMENT WITH UN SDGS 
[Goal 17] Strengthen the means of implementation and  revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development 
17.17.   Enhance the global partnership for sustainable  development, complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships  that mobilize and share knowledge, expertise, technology and  financial resources, to support the achievement of the sustainable  development goals in all countries, in particular developing  countries 
[Goal 9] Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and  sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 
9.b.   Support domestic technology development, research  and innovation in developing countries, including by ensuring  a conducive policy environment for, inter alia, industrial  diversification and value addition to commodities  
9.c.   Significantly increase access to information and  communications technology and strive to provide universal and  affordable access to the Internet in least developed countries by  2020 
Accumulated Amount of Investment in Research  Fund for Future Technology Program   
Number of Ideas Adopted   through C-Lab Unit: no. of tasks 
2019 HIGHLIGHTS 
  Basic Science(187 Projects) 278.5 
   Material Technology  (182 Projects) 245.9 
  ICT(191 Projects) 194.3 
Footnote:  1) As of December 2019 
Unit : billion KRW 
078 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Inspiring Creativity and Innovation 
C-Lab (Creative Lab) 
We operate a program called C-Lab to develop creative ideas into  business opportunities and stimulate the start-up ecosystem in  South Korea. Since we began C-Lab as an in-house idea incubation  program in 2012, we have expanded its operation to outside of the  company via C-Lab Outside since 2018.  
C-Lab Inside 
C-Lab Inside is an internal idea incubation program designed to  help employees realize their creative ideas and encourage a spirit  of challenge throughout the organization. Through C-Lab Inside,  we aim to uncover new areas of business that can fuel our future  growth. The program enables employees to assimilate the research  culture of start-ups and promote innovation after they return to  their jobs. 
C-Lab participants make autonomous decisions on team organiza- tion, budget, and scheduling, and work in a horizontally structured  work environment that is relatively independent from job title or  seniority. The program does not ask employees to take responsibility  in case of failure, which enables them to take on bold challenges.  Over the past seven years, more than 7,000 different ideas have  been presented, and as of end of 2019, 259 of them were adopted  and implemented as C-Lab tasks, in which a total of 1,060 employ- ees took part.  
Achievements of C-Lab Spin-off Program 
LINKFLOW 360-degree wearable camera 
   Within three years of the spin-off, the company value  has increased by 30 times, attracting KRW 22.3 billion  in investments globally. 
AIMT Vacuum insulation material 
   Supplies eco-cool boxes for sustainably packaging  fresh food to large South Korean distribution  companies.    Recorded KRW 5 billion in revenue in 2019 
EVAR Corp.  Autonomous robotic charger   for electric vehicles 
   Raised KRW 2 billion in investment in 2019    Selected as an electric vehicle charger service  provider for Jeju City, which is designated as a  regulation-free zone for more convenient electric  vehicle (EV) charging services by the South Korean  government. It plans to conduct a two-year  demonstration project starting in 2020 
In 2015, we initiated the C-Lab Spin-off Program to nurture  high-potential ideas and help to establish them as an independent  business. Spin-offs received support such as seed funding, mentor- ing, and consulting and more. Those who left to start a spin-off can  choose to return to the company within five years. This encourages  participants to try to start a business without the fear of failure. As  of end of 2019, 147 people have set up 40 companies through the  program, providing a significant contribution to job creation. 
CES Innovation Awards won by C-Lab Inside Companies 
 One year at C-Lab will help your dream come true!  
Jeong Won-seok, a participant of the invisible keyboard   Selfie Type  Project 
C-Lab is where my dream came true. I was finally able to  achieve what I used to consider just a possibility. To me,  C-Lab is a boot camp where people learn to make their  dreams a reality. It helped me to open the next chapter of  my life and discover a  Better Version of Myself . By putting  myself in several roles simultaneously, such as planning,  design, engineering, and usability evaluation, I could learn  how to efficiently operate a project. Being given an owner- ship role was particularly a valuable experience for me. 
MOPIC   Snap3D  
LINKFLOW FITT360  
WELT  Smart Belt  
Lululab Inc.  
Lululab Inc.  LUMINI 
Linkface  Dear 
C-Lab Outside 
Our C-Lab Outside program supports promising start-ups in South  Korea. Our target is to select 300 start-ups from 2018 to 2022 and  use our successful experiences and know-how to invigorate them  and guide them to success. Through this program, we encourage  potential entrepreneurs to start a business without worries, and  provide chances for shared growth in partnership to companies  that can collaborate with us. 
As of end of 2019, we have supported 122 external start-ups  through C-Lab Outside. In addition, we held a Demo Day in Novem- ber 2019 to showcase the progress achieved by the start-ups we  have supported during the past year and provide opportunities in  collaboration.  
C-Lab Outside Support Categories 
Infrastructure 
Partnership  opportunities 
Exhibitions 
Mentoring,  consulting 
079 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Financial   aid 
 Thanks to the C-Lab Outside,   we became a surplus company!  
Fernando Moon, CEO of Eggbun,   a chatbot language tutor application company 
The C-Lab Outside program looked into the very essence of  our business and then provided assistance. We were able to  focus solely on our business, as we were provided with not  only customized programs like  Growth Hacking  and expert  training, but also with the essentials to run a company, like  workspace and food. 
In the beginning, like most start-ups, we were losing money,  but after participating in this program, we started making a  profit. Sales analysis consulting was particularly helpful. With  the active support from Samsung Electronics, we got the  opportunity to create contents with famous YouTube influ- encers, which I think would have been difficult for Eggbun to  pull off alone. 
   Financial aid of up to KRW 100 million 
   Dedicated workspace at Samsung Electronics,  cafeteria, shuttle bus, and other   services for convenience 
   Meetings and training sessions with experts   in technology, business, and marketing 
   Opportunities to attend Samsung Electronics'  internal exhibitions and global IT exhibitions  (e.g. Consumer Electronics Show) 
   Consideration of possible business   partnerships with Samsung Electronics 
Achievements of C-Lab Outside Start-ups 
Smoothy -    A Group Video Call Application that Supports  Simultaneous Video, Voice, and Text Chat 
Smoothy is a group video call application that allows users  to use videos, voices, and text messages on one screen.  Smoothy, which has expanded its reach to Android and iOS  since its launch in 2018, has already accumulated more than  850,000 users as of January 2020. Smoothy starts silently  when connected for the first time and video calls are pos- sible even when voice calls are difficult because it also sup- ports real time texting written on the video. The main target  for the application is Generation Z, who want to be connected  by video at all times, at home, on the streets, and even while  studying. 
Circulus -   Companion Robot Pibo Equipped   with Interactive Technology 
Pibo communicates with humans. Unlike other devices that  are activated only when you talk to them, Pibo can initiate a  conversation when you get close to it. In addition, it can share  memories with users through voice diaries or photos, and  after reading the mood through their facial expression or tone  of voice, it can provide quotes or play music that best suits the  situation. Based on its natural language recognition technol- ogy, the robot gradually improves its performance on its own.  The longer you talk to it, the better it understands you. 
080 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Samsung NEXT 
Samsung NEXT operates in Silicon Valley, New York, Europe, Tel  Aviv and South Korea and brings together experts from vari- ous fields, such as engineers, investors, strategists, and business  developers. The team works with start-ups and entrepreneurs  developing world-changing software and services, and helps to  fuel innovation by providing funding, partnership opportunities,  merger and acquisitions, in-house product development and more.  Two focus areas NEXT is pursuing include Consumer Empowerment  and Health   Wellness. 
Consumer Empowerment   Scroll 
Samsung NEXT invests in technology and business mod- els that enhances consumer experience. Samsung NEXT  invested in Scroll, which partners with digital media to cre- ate a fast and convenient user experience by eliminating  advertisements and log in. 
Health   Wellness   Whisk 
We invest in companies with digital technologies that can  reduce costs and increase accessibility to healthcare. In  March 2019, we acquired Whisk, which offers millions of  online recipes with leading food companies around the  world and provides 500 million food recommendations each  month. 
Whisk's core technology, the  Food Genome , helps con- sumers improve their eating habits by providing nutritional  information from an analysis of their ingredients and food  consumption patterns. Whisk s Food AI brings together  user preferences, intent, and context to deliver personal- ized cooking experiences. Samsung Family Hub refrigerator  powered by Food AI recognizes what's inside the fridge and  recommends a curated feed of recipes, enhancing the user  experience. 
Major Projects for Research Funding for Future 
Research Funding for Future Technology Program 
We launched the Research Funding for Future Technology Program  in 2013 to provide investment in basic science initiatives that would  build strong, long-term foundation for positive human and indus- trial development. Under the principle of  high risk, high impact ,  we will provide KRW 1.5 trillion to support leading research proj- ects in basic science, material technology and ICT sectors by 2022. 
As of 2019, we have funded a total of KRW 718.7 billion to support  560 research projects. Of these, 187 were in basic science, 182 proj- ects used material technology, and 191 projects involved ICT. 10,821  professors and experts from 74 renowned institutions and univer- sities, including Seoul National University, KAIST (Korea Advanced  Institute of Science and Technology), POSTECH (Pohang Univer- sity of Science and Technology), KIST (Korea Institute of Science  and Technology), and KIAS (Korea Institute for Advanced Study) are  participating and generated 773 patent applications in total.  
We also provide a mentorship program for patent registra- tion, a consultation for starting a new business by experts, and  R D exchange opportunities between researchers and industry  experts.  
Process of Research Funding for Future Technology Program 
Material   Science 
Basic  Science 
90 panels select presentation  candidates Research Proposal 
Presentations and discussions for   150 panels Presentation and Q A 
Research Support 
Identifying the principle of storing light on the  single atomic layer and controlling it 
Predicting the point of material destruction  through data shape analysis. 
A bandpass analog-to-digital converter-based  radio frequency integrated circuits (RFIC)  architecture for ultra-small and low-power 5G  communication hardware. 
R D exchange conference, mentoring  for patent registration, expert  consulting for business launch   Research Support Presentation   and Q A Research Proposal IT 
Digital Responsibility 
4C Accessibility Design Principles 
Accessibility 
All of our products, content, and services are built around a human-centered philosophy that recognizes diversity and embraces difference.  We seek technological innovation to allow equal and convenient access to our products and services to all consumers. We apply the 4C Acces- sibility Design Principles to the development of all products and services. Using these principles, we developed the  Accessibility User Experi- ence (UX) Design Guidelines  and monitor how the accessibility principles are intuitively followed. 
Accessibility Feature Highlights 
TV We are proactive in implementing accessibility features in TV prod- ucts.  SeeColors  application, co-developed with Budapest University  of Technology and Economics, checks color blindness and adjusts the  screen for those who have difficulty detecting. It also provides a fea- ture that allow users to enlarge the sign language screen by up to  200%, and the Multi-Output Audio functionality that allows multiple  viewers to simultaneously watch TV at different volume levels. Such  efforts have been recognized through innovation awards at the CES,  the world s largest consumer electronics trade show, for four con- secutive years in accessibility category. 
Home Appliances We strive to improve accessibility in our home appliances through  innovative technologies designed to enhance the key features of  each product. From 2017 to 2018, we formed an advisory group  with the Korea Blind Union, Korea Association of the Deaf, and  Korea Association of Persons with Physical Disabilities to develop  and improve the accessibility of home appliances. One of our  employees with visual disability directly participated in the devel- opment process by testing the products at his own home for 3  months. As a result, Samsung Family Hub refrigerator is equipped  with various accessibility features, such as  Greyscale Negative  Color  that inverts screen colors or switch to greyscale for image  
User Experience Design Guidelines per Special Needs 
   Provide for basic accessibility in  device use    Improve TalkBack    Ensure features enhance users'  awareness of their surroundings  while walking    Allow users to enjoy pleasant  experiences such as movies,  music, and games 
081 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Consider details from the  user's perspective. Create non-discriminatory  designs that suit everyone. 
Consideration Comprehensiveness Coherence Co-Creation 
Vision Hearing Dexterity  Mobility Cognition 
   Enable smooth communication  and full expression of feelings    Facilitate communication  through text messages    Ensure features that enhance  users' awareness of surroundings    Provide feedback for accessing  information devices  
   Allow for one-handed operation    Ensure clear and easy operation  methods    Accurate interaction 
Provide the same   accessibility without distinction  for the entire product line-up. Create together. 
enhancement, an 'Accessible Screen' that helps wheelchair users to  access the product, and 'Side Navigation' in which the main control  is located on the side, allowing users to adjust its height. Grande  AI washers and dryers upgraded visual aid features by introduc- ing and adopting a braille label based on the usability evaluation by  visually impaired and accessibility sound. 
Mobile Mobile devices that users carry and use at all times require more  detailed accessibility features. The Samsung Supporters program  promotes  Co-creation  using accessibility design principles to  communicate with users with disabilities and enhance their expe- rience. Samsung Supporters participate in the development phase  of mobile products to increase product accessibility and contrib- ute in the development of new designs and functions. For example,  the Galaxy S20 includes a variety of additional functionality to help  users. These include the ability to pair a hearing aid to the device  via low-power Bluetooth  a scene commentary for visual aid  a  direct reading and color detection function  a function to prevent  repeated key input  and fixed key feature for users with physical  disabilities. We have been holding the  Galaxy Accessibility Brief- ing  every year since 2013 for the people with disabilities and their  families. From 2014, we have hosted the  Smart Angels  program  which educates visually impaired people on smartphone use.  
   Enable smooth communication  and full expression of feelings    Allow for diminished attention  and concentration capacities  
082 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Digital Well-being 
The importance of digital devices in consumers' lives is on the rise with the increase of consumer convenience led by the improvement of  information and communication technology. However, the high dependence toward digital devices is also causing social phenomena such as   Smombie (Smartphone Zombie)  and  Nomophobia (No-mobile-phobia) . We have therefore developed five digital well-being values to help  users enjoy a healthy and balanced digital lifestyle: Digital Detox, Balance, Guard, Wellness, and Safety. 
Five Digital Well-being Values 
1 Digital  Detox 
Protect personal   information through   features on digital  devices 
Create an environment  where a user can focus on  the present, stepping away  from excessive use of   digital devices 
Assist in building a   balanced lifestyle by  forming positive digital  usage habits 
Help children to safely  enjoy the digital realm 
Minimize health risks  that can be caused by  excessive use of digital  devices and provides  health care features 
Safety -  Find My Mobile  
We help users find their phone in the event it gets lost or misplaced and pro- vide a service to protect the information stored. The  Find My Mobile  service  tracks the location of the lost phone, tells the user where it is, locks the device  and makes it easier for a user to locate it if it is nearby by providing the  ring  my device  feature. Users can delete their data such as messages and photos,  or protect their personal information by uploading it to Samsung Cloud. It also  allows users to share their location when necessary. 
Digital Detox -  Focus Mode  
 Focus Mode  allows users to pause or silence notifications from selected appli- cations temporarily when you want to focus on a task at hand. This feature is  especially handy to cut out distractions while reading or studying, or simply  when you want to have conversations with friends and family or just want to  take a personal break. 
Balance -  App Timer  
With the  App Timer , users can limit excessive usage of an application by being  notified of actual time spent on an application against the target usage time. If the  application usage time is below the time recorded on the previous day, the notifica- tion message will appear in the header to encourage the user the reach the target. 
Guard -  Samsung Kids  
 Samsung Kids  helps to create a safe environment for children to explore, play,  and develop good digital habits. Users can easily activate the service by tapping  on the  Samsung Kids  button on the quick panel to enable access to a variety of  content to fuel their imagination. Through  Parental Control  in  Samsung Kids',  users can set limits on playtime as well as give access to specific contacts and  applications. 
Wellness -  Wind Down   Wind Down  was developed to reduce eye strain before going to sleep and  improve sleep quality. The blue light filter adjusts the light on the screen to  avoid straining vision, and the dark mode lets the user to see the screen more  comfortably in dark places. Once the user sets the bedtime schedule, the screen  will fade to greyscale as the time to sleep approaches to further protect eyes  and encourage users to refrain from using their phones before sleep. 
AI technology has enormous positive potential but we believe in  taking a robust social and ethical approach that implements the  technology in a sustainable and ethical way. To support this, we  have established a set of AI ethics principles,  Fairness ,  Transpar- ency  and  Accountability . These principles are designed to ful- fill our social and ethical responsibilities as well as to comply with  applicable laws. We have also set up AI ethics guidelines for our  employees to ensure that we put our AI ethics principles in prac- tice. We also plan to promote employee awareness of AI ethics  through training programs. 
We believe in devoting our human resources and technology to  develop the best products and services while making a positive and  lasting contribution to society. One of our goals is to develop and  connect AI services across our diverse product portfolio to bene- fit all of humanity. Based on this, we established an AI vision which  puts our users first. We are committed to developing devices that  are  User Centric , through AI technology that are  Always There ,   Always Safe ,  Always Helpful , and  Always Learning . 
Principles for AI Ethics 
083 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Accountability 
Transparency 
   We will apply the values of equality and   diversity in AI throughout its entire life cycle. 
   We will not encourage or propagate negative  or unfair bias. 
   We will endeavor to provide easy access to all  users. 
   Users will be aware that they are interacting  with AI. 
   AI will be explainable for users to understand  its decision or recommendation to the extent  technologically feasible.  
   The process of collecting or utilizing personal  data will be transparent.  
   We will apply the principles of social and   ethical responsibility to AI  
   AI will be adequately protected and have  security measures to prevent data breach and  cyberattacks. 
   We will work to benefit society and   promote corporate citizenship through   the AI system.  
Efforts towards a Responsible AI 
Samsung Electronics is pursuing various stakeholder engage- ment activities to enhance understanding of the social impact of  AI and to utilize AI technology in a sensible and ethical manner. In  2018, we joined PAI (Partnership on AI), an international consulta- tive body for AI ethics, and are participating in various subject-spe- cific expert group discussions, striving to prepare for responsible AI  and create best practices in AI technology. In addition, we partici- pated in the Public-Private Council on User Protection in Intelligent  Information Society in South Korea and strive to communicate with  users, experts, and related companies on the need and direction of  protecting users of intelligent information services such as AI. 
AI R D Capability Enhancement 
As part of our dedication to expanding the capabilities of AI  research, we have seven global AI centers in five countries: South  Korea (Seoul), the United Kingdom (Cambridge), Canada (Toronto  and Montreal), Russia (Moscow), and the United States (Silicon Val- ley and New York). We will continue our efforts in building open  R D on AI technologies to engage and collaborate with various  experts. 
Samsung AI Forum 
We invite AI scholars to  Samsung AI Forum' an annual event where  we share the latest research trends and explore future innovation  strategies. At the third forum in 2019, the world s most renowned  AI experts participated and shared recent trends in AI technology  research and progress, including deep learning.  
INVESTING  IN OUR  EMPLOYEES 
SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS 
Samsung Electronics support the development of competencies  
of our employees based on one of our core values,  people first .  
We also respect the value of diversity and inclusion in our orga- 
nizational culture and conduct a yearly employee satisfaction  
survey to assess our strengths and find out how and where we  
can make improvements. Furthermore, we also assess our safety  
culture, improve our work environment, and operate a chemicals  
management system to ensure safety in the workplace. 
ALIGNMENT WITH UN SDGS 
Goal 8] Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable  economic growth, full and productive employment and decent  work for all 
8.5.   By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and  decent work for all women and men, including for young people  and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value 
[Goal 5] Achieve gender equality and empower all women and  girls 
5.1.   End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls  everywhere 
5.5.   Ensure women's full and effective participation and equal  opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision making in  political, economic and public life 
10.2.   By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and  political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race,  ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status 
[Goal 3] Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at  all ages 
3.9.   By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths  and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil  pollution and contamination 
[Goal 10] Reduce inequality within and among countries 
Health and Safety Management System Certification   
Footnote: 1) Scope: Production sites across the globe 
2019 HIGHLIGHTS 
Samsung Culture Index Score 
086 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Career Development Program Diversity   Inclusion 
We believe that everyone has unique talents, competencies and the  potential to become a driving force for change and improvement.  This is why our management philosophy has always been to put  people first. We are committed to nurturing skills and capabilities  in order to unlock the best in our employees, and therefore drive  creativity and innovation that will contribute to our long-term sus- tainable growth. We provide a range of leadership and functional  expertise programs to help our employees achieve excellence in  their respective fields and other programs that enable them to pre- pare for the future and their extended careers.  
Life Design  Training   
Career   Consulting   Center   
STaR   Session     IDP  ,   
Job   Posting   
Samsung U provides digital learning resources  based on individual employee needs. Through a  machine learning algorithm, Samsung U tailors  its recommendations for each employee by con- sidering a variety of factors such as the employ- ee's job role and preferences. Overall, it helps  employees become experts in their respective  fields through online modules accessible world- wide on one platform. 
STaR Session is a process where we support our  employees design their career path and growth.  STaR Session offers a variety of development  opportunities encompassing career and aca- demic training programs including MBA degrees,  academic training, and expert training that can  be customized depending on each participant s  career stage and development needs. 
Employees are provided with potential oppor- tunities to move to different positions within the  company through our Job Posting program, which  is available based upon needs. This program fol- lows a systematic in-house process, including  posting jobs, receiving applications, screening  papers, and interviewing applicants. Over the  past three years, a total of 1,548 employees were  able to move to their desired positions through  the Job Posting program. 
This course allows our employees to plan their  future in preparation for an extended retirement  age and aging society. Each year, eligible employ- ees are offered an opportunity to design their  future. The course aims to help employees remain  productive at work while effectively dealing with  the anxiety associated with their respective life  career stages. 
We actively support retirees, and current employ- ees, to prepare for the future through our Career  Consulting Center. We provide programs such  as career consulting for current employees, life  coaching for retirees, career change training, as  well help with external job matching. So far we  have helped more than 7,319 people, and a total of  6,432 employees have successfully transitioned  into a new career as a result.  
Footnotes: 1) Samsung Talent Review Session 2) Individual Development Plan 3) Operates in South Korea only 
We believe that true innovation and growth are built on a culture  that respects diversity and inclusion. We aim to create a culture in  which people with diverse backgrounds and ways of thinking can  maximize their capabilities. We do not discriminate on any grounds,  including gender, race, nationality, or religion. 
We constantly improve the company s systems, promote region-spe- cific programs, and develop products and services based on these  principles. Furthermore, we continuously seek opinions on diver- sity and inclusion from all stakeholders, including consumers,  shareholders, and investors. 
As a result, we have been certified as a family-friendly company by  the Korean Ministry of Gender Equality and Family (MOGEF) since  2013. In the United States in 2019, we received the highest achiev- able score of 100 on the Corporate Equality Index by Human Rights  Campaign (HRC) Foundation in recognition of our inclusivity pol- icies for LGBTQ employees. Meanwhile, results from the Samsung  Cultural Index (SCI) showed that there has been an increase in the  level of satisfaction with respect to diversity and inclusion among  employees and executives. 
My manager respects different values   and personalities in my team. 
My team members respect each other. 
Diversity   Inclusion Programs The human resources team at our headquarters and the diversity  and inclusion managers at each division have implemented a vari- ety of initiatives, including those with a focus on women, people  with disabilities, generational gap, culture, education, and more. 
Stronger Presence in Leadership 
We are committed to ensuring that women participate in the deci- sion-making process and have equal opportunities in leadership. To  nurture the next generation of women leaders, we have increased  the number of female executives and managers, and enhanced  leadership training and mentoring programs to provide further  support. As a result, we saw a ninefold increase in female execu- tives and a twofold increase in the manager level over the past ten  years.   
Footnote: 1)  Female executives: 0.76% in 2009 to 6.53% in 2019   Females in manager level and above: 7.49% in 2009 to 14.67% in 2019 
Work Support We have established various policies and facilities related to child- birth and childcare to help female employees maintain a produc- tive work-life balance. In South Korea, we provide parental leave,  subfertility leave, extended childcare leave, and offer reduced work  hours for childcare   all of which are greater than the national legal  requirements.   As well as running in-house daycare centers, we  have set up maternity lounges at worksites and designated seats  for pregnant women on commute buses. We also hold roundtable  discussions led by our human resources team for parents to voice  their concerns and opinions. We require all our sites to install rest  areas to protect the health of pregnant women and their babies as  well as a place for breastfeeding. The Vietnam subsidiary operates  22 Mommy Rooms with in-house obstetrics and gynecologists. In  China, we run a postpartum return program to support female  employees returning to work after maternity leave. 
Footnote: 1)  Paternity Leave: (Legal requirement) Up to 10 days     (Samsung Electronics) Up to 20 days for multiple births   Parental Leave: (Legal requirement) Up to 1 year per child     (Samsung Electronics' SET Division) Up to 2 years per child  (Legal requirement) Children under 8 years old or 2nd grade in elementary  school   (Samsung Electronics) Children under 12 years old or 6th grade in  elementary school  Infertility Leave: (Legal requirement) None   (Samsung Electronics)   Maximum of three times up to 1 year  Extended Childcare Leave: (Legal requirement) None     (Samsung Electronics, DS Division) Up to 1 month between March and July  when child enters elementary school (Unpaid)  Reduced Working Hours for Infant Care: (Legal requirement) Up to 1 year    (Samsung Electronics' SET Division) Up to 2 years     Up to 3 years if combined with working hours during infancy early childhood  (Legal requirement) Children under 8 years old or 2nd grade in elementary  school   (Samsung Electronics) Children under 12 years old or 6th grade in  elementary school 
Support in Technology  We have been expanding women's employment in various sec- tors. The percentage of women in the R D sector has been increas- ing, and the percentage of women at the manager level and above  in the R D sector has increased twofold in the past decade.   This  has contributed to developing products and services that embrace  diverse views and opinions. We hold a number of events designed  
087 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
to help women to develop their skills and capabilities in the field  of technology. In 2019, we hosted the  Samsung Tech Forum for  Women  for female undergraduate and graduate students in South  Korea, providing an opportunity to develop their vision and goals  as engineers. The event offered sessions to showcase our wom- en-friendly organizational culture and systems, provided opportu- nities for women engineers to share their experiences, and offered  mentoring and the chance of job experience sessions. In Spain,  we hosted a developer program on training on artificial intelli- gence (AI), the Internet of Things (IoT), and programming for young  females. More than 1,000 women participated in this program to  improve their technology expertise. 
Footnote: 1) Females in manager level and above: 6.13% in 2009 to 11.36% in 2019 
Employee Networking and Communication We are proud to promote events and gatherings for female employ- ees to create a culture that promotes women s rights. Our employ- ees have voluntarily formed Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) ded- icated to D I and strive to enhance the networking opportunities of  female employees. In the United States, we hold a  Seoul Sisters Con- ference  to support and benchmark various D I programs. On Inter- national Women's Day, there were a series of events, such as talks  with female leaders, volunteering, and a health promotion program. 
Persons with Disabilities  
Work Support We provide an environment in which individuals with disabilities  can realize their potential to the fullest. We place our employees  with disabilities in positions based on individual needs and their  competencies and hold regular sessions to relieve their work and  life difficulties and help them stay productive. We provide conve- nience facilities to minimize the discomfort that employees with  disabilities may experience. We introduced Samsung Barrier Free  (SBF), our internal facility certification system, to evaluate the  accessibility of our buildings and facilities. Since 2011, we have  reviewed the accessibility of all our major buildings and facilities  and have implemented and improved accessibility facilities such as  elevators, specialist restrooms, and low-floor buses for people with  disabilities. In Mexico, we developed braille business cards for the  visually impaired and boosted employee awareness and a culture  of respect through a variety of workshops and conferences. 
Technological Support for Individuals with Disabilities For customers with physical disabilities, we apply accessibility  technologies, such as visual, hearing, and physical aid features. We  are committed to promoting inclusion in our products and services,  such as the launch of the audio-visual aid application  Samsung  Good Vibes .   
Footnote: 1)  Two-way communication application that utilizes haptic features and Morse  code to allow the deafblind to send and receive messages using simple touch  motions 
088 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Generational Gap 
Communication and a Culture of Mutual Respect We have a variety of programs to improve understanding between  generations. In South Korea, as part of Culture Innovation, we  introduced a new system based on career development rather  than hierarchy in 2016 to nurture a culture that allows employees  to freely share ideas between generation. In 2019, we hosted the   Culture Members Program , where employees of various ages and  work experiences gathered to discuss ways to enhance our organi- zational culture. 
Generational Diversity Program To create more effective communication with young employees,  we created a Millennial Committee in South Korea. The commit- tee seeks insights and opinions from millennials in order to apply  them to the company s vision, products, and design. We also oper- ate a reverse mentoring program where the millennials share the  culture and trends of their generation with senior management.  We also execute programs to close the generational gap in digital  capabilities for the elderly. In Italy, we run  SAVE for Seniors  pro- gram, through which we provided education to hundreds of elderly  citizens who are not familiar with digital devices. We educated  them on how to use smartphones and tablets, as well as basic IT  knowledge and cybersecurity tips.  
Cultural Interaction and Respect We are building a corporate culture that share and respect each  other's culture through diverse events. To support this, we cele- brate a wide range of events, such as Heritage Day Celebrations in  Africa, and Korean Culture Day in Latin America. 
Support for Intercultural Adaptation We offer a range of programs to support employees working in a  different culture. In South Korea, we operate a Global Help Desk  to provide foreign employees with information and services nec- essary for life, such as visa issuance. We also provide an English  translation of internal systems, as well as providing Korean lan- guage courses and other clubs for employees from overseas. In  addition, we host events for foreign employees that encourages  them to bring their families to the worksites. Employees dispatched to overseas offices as well as new employ- ees receive a cross-cultural adaptation assessment on three cri- teria: intercultural adaptability, cultural aptitude, and global lead- ership. For employees dispatched to overseas offices, we offer  additional training based on the assessment results to boost  respect and understanding of diverse cultures.  
Training We provide and encourage participation in training programs so  that employees can practice the culture of diversity and inclusion. 
Samsung Culture Index (SCI) 
We conduct an annual employee survey, Samsung Culture Index,  to identify our strengths, and highlight areas for improvement in  our corporate culture. The SCI survey is comprised of the core val- ues of our culture: Work Smart, Think Hard, and Build Trust. In 2019,  approximately 260,000 employees in 124 locations participated in  the survey.  The SCI score has been on a steady rise since we introduced the SCI  survey. In 2019, the overall score was 89, two points higher than the  year before. This score indicates that 89% of our employees across  the world are satisfied with our corporate culture. 
SCI Score  
Understanding the  importance of D I 
Introduction   to D I 
Build   Awareness 
Recognizing  diversity at the   individual and   organizational level 
Fundamentals  of D I 
Inclusive  Leadership 
D I Team  Dynamics 
Reframe   Mindset 
Generational Cohesion 
Millennials in Leadership 
Women   Leadership 
Improving and   executing core skills 
Equitable Leadership  
Cultural Intelligence 
Work Smart   Performance-oriented Working Work Smart is an activity that aims to cultivate a working culture  that focuses on performance rather than time input and physical  presence. The approach is designed to nurture a work-life balance,  efficient time management, and constant improvement in working  style, and also encourage employees to achieve their work goals. 
 Samsung Electronics is globally renowned brand with tre- mendous opportunities and I work with talented and smart  colleagues here. Samsung Electronics always supports  employees' creativity in innovative ways.   Key Questions 
My work-life balance  has improved by Work  Smart Initiatives. 
The productivity of   my company has   benefited by Work  Smart Initiatives. 
Think Hard   Promoting Creativity and Innovation Think Hard is an activity that encourages employees to consider  innovative ways to improve the way we work, promoting a proac- tive approach to enhancing working methods and practices rather  than passively accepting traditional ways. We support our employ- ees  innovative activities and challenging spirit based on an effi- cient management system and infrastructure. 
Key Questions 
This company  provides a supportive  environment for  employees to develop  creative ideas. 
This company takes  employees' ideas  and suggestions for  improvement into  consideration. 
089 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Work Smart Best Practice Contest 
Our annual Work Smart Contest rewards employees who  have voluntarily taken steps to become more efficient in  their role and have improved their performance. In 2019, a  total of 782 best practices were submitted, 12 of them were  selected and rewarded, and improvement know-how and  best practices were shared internally. 
Build Trust - Driving Respect and Consideration Build Trust is based on the idea that we can drive larger success  through mutual communication and cooperation. When employ- ees share their ideas and respect each other s performance with  mutual respect and consideration, we can maximize our success as  a company.  
Key Questions 
My colleagues respect  and treat each other  with care. 
I take pride as a  member of our  company. 
 What Samsung Electronics does well      Answered by Employees 
 Our company is always striving to create new and original  products that reflect the latest technology and trends.  
Most Improved in Satisfaction in 2019     Disclosure of Information Regarding the Company s  Goals and Strategies 
For active communication between the company and  employees, we regularly share the company s management  philosophy and performance through townhall meetings,  business briefings, and letters from the CEO. In the 2019  SCI, an increased number of employees said we had been  fully aware of the company's goals and strategies. The score  jumped by six points from 88 points in 2018, the largest  increase to date. 
090 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Health and Safety Management 
Workplace Safety Management As part of our commitment to achieving a world-class safety cul- ture, we are operating a company-wide safety management index,  evaluating our safety culture, creating a safer working environ- ment, and strengthening safety capabilities. All of our worksites  have received certification on Health and Safety Management Sys- tem, and we are doing our best to ensure safety in the workplace by  evaluating all worksites for potential risks and dangers. 
Safety Culture Index We are making efforts to establish an advanced safety culture in  our workplaces. In 2019, more than 130,000 employees from 36  sites in South Korea (including those dispatched from suppliers)  and manufacturing sites worldwide participated in the safety cul- ture level evaluation. The safety culture evaluation assesses items  such as the management s commitment, roles and responsibilities,  risk management, communication and participation, environmen- tal safety capabilities, compliance, cause analysis and corrective  measures, monitoring and performance management. In 2019, the  level of safety awareness at our worksites improved slightly com- pared to 2018, which means that employees  voluntary participa- tion in safety activities is gradually increasing.  
Creating a Safe Working Environment  In order to prevent potential accidents, we identify risk factors such as  outdated facilities, noncompliance with safety regulations, and inad- equate on-site monitoring in advance and create countermeasures. In  2019, we established a Facility Life Management System (FLMS) that  can manage the entire process of procurement, repair, replacement,  and disposal of equipment to prevent risks related to infrastructure  facilities in the workplace. The FLMS system manages all levels from  registering infrastructure facilities and materials information, devis- ing prevention plans and recording assessment results, and an analy- sis based on big data. In addition, we conduct training on compliance  with safety regulations and response system per accident types and  examine the on-site management system periodically.  
Environment   Safety Research Center In 2019, our Semiconductor division established the Samsung Envi- ronment   Safety Research Center to secure future technologies  for infrastructure such as smart safety, green management, and  overall safety management. The institute is conducting research  on unmanned technology to eliminate risk factors for accidents in  the workplace, as well as eco-conscious technology for respond- ing to environmental regulations and minimizing pollutants. It is  also doing research to promote safety in new products, processing,  materials, and facilities.  
   Performance assessment    Rules   processes 
   Deterioration of equipment    Non-compliance with   safety regulations     Poor worksite   management 
Identification of  Risk Factors  
Monitoring 
Accident  Prevention  Process 
   Estimation of equip- ment life cycle    Establishing plans to  meet safety regulations     On-site management  system 
   Equipment monitoring     Safety education    On-site audits  
Setting Prevention  Measures  
Improvement  Activities  
Eliminating Risk Factors in Facilities    On-site Inspections Using Drones Since 2018, Samsung Electronics has used drones to conduct  inspections on locations and facilities that are difficult to access or  can be dangerous to examine in proximity. In 2019, we introduced  drones to our worksites in Vietnam to check corrosions, damages  and cracks in our facilities. In addition, we also developed a tech- nology that can collect and analyze the conditions of facilities  automatically and implemented it to the Semiconductor division's  worksites in South Korea.  
Accident Response Process 
Enhancing Safety Capabilities 
Professionalization of Risk Assessment The Semiconductor Division operates a training course for Risk  Assessment Masters to enhance its safety-related risk evalua- tion capability. The course is divided into two programs  work-re- lated risks and work process-related risks. The first program  covers theoretical training on how to discover risk factors using  videos, case-based evaluation and improvement on environmental  safety training, and a third-party assessment consisting of oper- ational practitioners, environmental safety officers, and external  experts. The work process-related risk course consists of case stud- ies related to 60 major facilities, and uses the Fab Infra Best Sam- ple, HAZOP and  what-if  evaluation tools. As of 2019, a total of 1,230  people (1,070 employees at Samsung Electronics and 160 at suppli- ers) earned the title of Risk Assessment Masters. In 2020, we plan  to provide additional training and follow up with an in-depth course  on detecting complex risk factors for those who show superior per- formance.  
Occurrence  of accident 
Emergency  actions 
  Cause analysis   Prevention of secondary damage Investigation 
  Establishment and action of recovery plan   Action on business continuity plan Recovery  
Prevention  of accident  recurrence  
    Dissemination of information on the   accident.    Identification of type of accident and  analysis of crisis phase. 
   Activate the emergency management   committee.    Take emergency evacuation and first-aid   steps.  
  Establishing plans to prevent recurrence    Assessment on validity of accident   response process  
Safety Training We provide regular training to prepare our employees to respond  to safety-related accidents. This is conducted as experiential  courses, which include fire evacuation, earthquake preparedness  and response, and chemical spill response. In 2019, we carried out  a total of 3,679 emergency training sessions, which amounts to an  average of 1.4 sessions and 15 hours of training completed by each  employee. Our periodic training sessions include check-up of the  preparedness against various emergency scenarios, and emer- gency situations response system. In 2019, we introduced fire  safety training for employees of our suppliers. 
Training  Target 
All   Employees  
EHS     specialists        
Employees at  production  sites outside  of South  Korea 
Footnotes: 1) Duplicates included 2) Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 
Health and Safety Support for Suppliers In 2019, our DS Division opened  DS Division EHS Academy for Suppli- ers , an environmental safety training center for its suppliers, and ran  a total of 24 courses. These included two statutory training courses,  seven certification-related training courses, and fifteen capability  enhancement training courses. Around 160,000 employees of our  suppliers completed the courses in 2019. 
EHS Innovation Day Since 2013, we have held annual EHS Innovation Day to enhance  workplace safety management. Since 2019, we have operated a  
Environmental Safety Training for Employees 
091 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
1 Statutory  training 
2 Certification  training  
3 Capability  training 
Introductory training,   basic statutory training,  safety leadership training 
Internal inspector course,  certification courses (to  obtain certificates such as  master craftsman and engi- neer), statutory refresher  courses 
Global EHS Conference, Core  leaders training courses held  in South Korea, and addi- tional courses run by each  worksite 
Enables supplier employees to acquire profes- sional certification of their job skills through  hands-on evaluation and practice tests 
Ensures all visitors at the DS division worksites  complete a mandatory safety training prior to  entering worksites 
Provides safety health manager courses, safety  leadership courses and more to employees and  managers from suppliers 
2019 Results  
Total 22,499 hours of training  completed  975   employees participated      
Total 4,282,694 hours of  training completed  455,319  employees participated   
Total 2,996,203 hours of  training completed  172,057  employees participated 
two-track program for products business and parts business sec- tors, and held the forum twice in March and in October. In October,  we hosted the  Global Manufacturing EHS Innovation Day  with the  manufacturing department to share cases of risk analyses focusing  on manufacturing and rekindled our commitment to strengthen- ing our capabilities across EHS overall. Our employees from all over  the world as well as our suppliers participated in an expert s lec- ture about creating and innovative and safe workplace, and shared  success cases of innovation in the field of EHS from each participat- ing company. 
Employee Health Management Our Health Management System stresses the importance of pro- moting good health, improving the work environment, and disease  prevention. Among many activities, we conduct periodic employee  health checks, measure harmful factors in the work environment,  and operate an in-house health clinic. 
Health Promotion Activities 3-Care Comprehensive Management  3-Care  comprehensive management is a collaborative system  between the environmental safety department, human resources  team, and department heads to champion employee health. We  provide various health management programs from face-to-face  care by company doctors, to customized exercise programs, and a  range of healthy diet menus. In addition, heads of each department  and the HR team support employees, offering changes in workload  and working conditions as needed. 
BOOST Solution We have adopted a BOOST (Burnout, Obesity, Overdrinking, Smoking,  and Take-care group) solution. We provide comprehensive health  improvement support for groups of employees with at least one of  the above high-risk factors.  
Health Campaigns Samsung Electronics is constantly operating a campaign for all  employees encourage walking using the Samsung Health applica- tion, healthy drinking culture, and quitting smoking. 
Health Management System 
1 Health  promotion 
2 Work   environment 
3 Disease  prevention 
   Health check-up     Operation of in-house workout facilities: fitness  center, musculoskeletal workout center    Activities for health promotion: Encourage  employees to quit smoking cut down drinking,  use stairs, eat healthy foods 
   Measure harmful factors in the work environment.    Investigate factors that are harmful to the   musculoskeletal system    Strive to eliminate or remove odor, dust, and  noise from worksites 
   Monitoring epidemics: providing information  on how to manage and minimize risks during  epidemics    Operation of in-house health clinic: inoculation  (e.g. against influenza and hepatitis)     Health management concerning employees on  business trips: management of countries with  travel restrictions prohibition and provision of  household medicines 
092 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Work Environment Improvement 
Ergonomic Line Certification 
We examine the impact of the work environment on our employees'  health by conducting a periodic manufacturing process analysis.  To that end, we operate the Ergonomic Line Certification System,  which is used to assess each manufacturing process ergonomically,  and evaluate its operation level by calculating in percentage. The  system, which consists of Rapid Entire Body Assessment (REBA)  analysis, manages the status of certification for each process, using  the Global Environment, Health   Safety (G-EHS) system. In 2019,  a total of 621 production lines were analyzed, of which 74% were  rated to be ergonomically effective.  
IIIness Prevention 
Fitness Center for the Prevention of Musculoskeletal Disorders 
Since 2010, Samsung Electronics has operated a musculoskele- tal disease prevention exercise center to prevent related illnesses  and promote health for our employees. Employees can receive  professional examination for basic body composition, balance, 3D  physique measurement, and core muscle strength. They can also  receive 1:1 consultation with experts to participate in health pro- motion activities. In particular, we offer corrective exercise and  post-treatment rehabilitation for symptoms common to office  workers such as scoliosis or 'turtle s neck syndrome'. 
Footnote: 1) Preliminary review: Based on Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS), chemical warranty letters, and letters of confirmation (LOC) 
Chemical Management Process 
2 Purchase 1 
Not for Use Review the optimum management process by analyzing hazardousness and danger to the environment, health and safety (EHS) 
Preliminary Chemical Evaluation 
Preliminary Chemical Evaluation System Inventory System 
Request from the relevant department 
Preliminary review   by experts 
5 Disposal 4 Use (inventory  management) 3 
Deliberation on review outcomes Approval Use 
Warehouse Registration (place of use) 
Workplace Chemical Management Chemical Management To ensure safe management of chemical substances, we operate  periodic training of responsible personnel and inspect processing  and storage facilities, while establishing chemical handling safety  measures based on EHS expert diagnosis. To reduce the use of  chemical substances, we are carrying out three-step management  activities  the development of substitute substances  the reduction  of concentration of chemicals used  and the discontinuation of the  use of those chemicals. 
Chemical Management Process 
In order to prevent potential accidents that may arise from chemi- cal management, we systematically manage every stage from pur- chase to disposal. Our employees who deal with chemicals at each  of our worksites are required to perform a preliminary evaluation  of the chemical prior to purchase. We register and use chemicals  after they have been assessed as adequate for use. In 2019, we car- ried out a total of 7,085 preliminary evaluations. After use, chem- ical waste are disposed safely through separate chemical waste  treatment procedures. 
Integrated Chemicals Monitoring 
All our worksites comply with the EU's Restriction of Hazardous  Substances (RoHS) and the EU Registration, Evaluation, Authori- zation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) standards. Through  this system, we manage chemical substances strictly in accordance  with the laws and regulations of each country and the internal list  of restricted materials. In addition, we provide support, including  regular on-site audits and improvement measures, so that our sup- pliers can use chemicals in safe working conditions. 
Regulated Substances We disclose a list of 25 regulated substances to the public. These substances are classified into those which are strictly prohibited and those  whose use is allowed only under restricted conditions. 
Prohibited  
Prohibited  
Restricted  
Restricted  
Restricted  
Restricted  
Restricted  
Restricted  
Restricted  
Restricted  
Restricted  
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted  
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Restricted 
Footnotes: 1) Limited to manual processing  2) Occupational Safety and Health Act, South Korea 3) International Agency for Research on Cancer 
093 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Dimethylformamide  
Nitromethane  
Chloroform  
Cyclohexanone  
Dichloromethane  
Ethylene Oxide 
2-Methoxyethanol 
2-Methoxyethyl Acetate 
2-Ethoxyethanol 
2-Ethoxyethyl acetate 
Formaldehyde 
Diethylene Glycol  Dimethyl Ether 
1,2-Dichloropropane 
1,3-Butadiene 
N,N-Dimethylacetamide 
1-Bromopropane 
2-Bromopropane 
Acrylonitrile 
Vinyl chloride 
Limitations of Use   
All Process  
All Process  
Cleansing Degreasing  
Cleansing Degreasing  
Cleansing Degreasing  
Cleansing Degreasing  
Cleansing Degreasing  
Cleansing Degreasing  
Cleansing Degreasing  Cooling 
Cleansing Degreasing  
Cleansing Degreasing  
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing  
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Cleansing Degreasing 
Related Standards 
OSHA  (Special C M), IARC  , Internal Guideline  
OSHA (Management R), EU CMR, Internal  Guidelines 
OSHA (Special R), IARC(2A), EU CMR (1B)  
OSHA (Management  C), IARC(2B)  
OSHA (Management  C R), IARC(2B), EU CMR  
OSHA (Special C M), IARC  
OSHA (Management  R), EU CMR  
OSHA (Special C), IARC(2A)  
OSHA (Management  C)  
OSHA (Management  C)  
OSHA (Special C), IARC(2A)  
OSHA (Special Management C,M), IARC(1) 
OSHA (Special Management R) 
OSHA (Special Management R) 
OSHA (Special Management R) 
OSHA (Special Management R) 
OSHA (Special Management C,M) IARC(1) 
EU CMR (1B)  
OSHA (Management C) , IARC(1) 
OSHA (Special Management C ,R) , IARC(1) 
OSHA (Special Management R) 
OSHA (Special Management C ,R) , IARC(2B) 
OSHA (Special Management R) 
OSHA (Special Management C) , IARC(2B) 
OSHA (Management C) , IARC(1) 
Applied to 
All Samsung Electronics worksites  and all suppliers 
All Samsung Electronics worksites  and all suppliers 
All Samsung Electronics worksites  and all suppliers 
All Samsung Electronics worksites  and all suppliers 
All Samsung Electronics worksites  and all suppliers 
All Samsung Electronics worksites  and all suppliers 
All Samsung Electronics worksites  and all suppliers 
All Samsung Electronics worksites  and all suppliers 
All Samsung Electronics worksites  and all suppliers 
All Samsung Electronics worksites  and all suppliers 
All Samsung Electronics worksites  and all suppliers 
All Samsung Electronics worksites 
All Samsung Electronics worksites 
All Samsung Electronics worksites 
All Samsung Electronics worksites 
All Samsung Electronics worksites 
All Samsung Electronics worksites 
All Samsung Electronics worksites  
All Samsung Electronics worksites 
All Samsung Electronics worksites 
All Samsung Electronics worksites 
All Samsung Electronics worksites 
All Samsung Electronics worksites 
All Samsung Electronics worksites 
All Samsung Electronics worksites 
SUSTAINABLE  SUPPLY CHAIN 
SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS 
In collaboration with our suppliers across the globe, we are con- 
tinually working towards a sustainable business ecosystem  
based on a philosophy of fairness, openness, and co-prosperity. 
We provide support to our suppliers to operate in adherence to  
global laws and standards to fulfill its environmental and social  
responsibilities. We also operate a risk management system  
to minimize human rights infringements and environmental  
impacts in the mining process in high-risk areas. 
ALIGNMENT WITH UN SDGS 
[Goal 8] Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable  economic growth, full and productive employment and decent  work for all 
8.3.   Promote development-oriented policies that support  productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship,  creativity and innovation, and encourage the formalization and  growth of micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises, including  through access to financial services 
8.7.   Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced  labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and secure  the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour,  including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end  child labour in all its forms 
8.8.   Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working  environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in  particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment 
[Goal 12] Ensure sustainable consumption and production  patterns 
12.6.   Encourage companies, especially large and transnational  companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate  sustainability information into their reporting cycle 
[Goal 3] Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at  all ages 
3.9.   By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths  and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil  pollution and contamination 
2019 HIGHLIGHTS 
Funding Support 
Amount of Win-Win Fund  Invested to Suppliers 
8,630Hundred Million KRW 
Support to Smart Factory Project 
Manufacturing Experts     Invested Funds 
200people     1,100  Hundred Million KRW   
Conflict Minerals Management 
Percentage of RMAP   Certified Smelters 
Footnotes: 1)  50 billion KRW from the Korean Ministry of SMEs and Startups  included 2) Responsible Minerals Assurance Process 
Footnotes: 1)  The Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) is an industry coalition in which over  150 global corporations draw up a systematic joint response to CSR issues.  The RBA sets 85 standards in five areas - labor and human rights, environ- ment, health and safety, ethics and the management system. 2)  Refer to Eco-Partner certification 
096 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Supply Chain Operation 
We strive to grow together with our suppliers by carefully manag- ing the risks and opportunities of our supply chain and considering  sustainability at every stage of selecting, operating, and evaluat- ing suppliers. We believe our competitive advantage is enhanced  by the competitiveness of our suppliers. Based on this philosophy  coupled with strong will from our top management, we support  our suppliers to grow in the global marketplace, which in turn will  boost the competitiveness of our supply chain. 
Supply Chain Operation Philosophy 
Selecting New Suppliers When selecting new suppliers, we evaluate candidates on five key  areas: procurement and quality  environment, health and safety   labor and human rights  Eco-Partner certification  and financial  status. We engage with those which receive a score of minimum  80 (out of 100) in all five areas. In particular, we intensively mon- itor areas that are closely related to corporate social responsibili- ties using a checklist based on the RBA Code of Conduct and audit  methodology.   For accurate assessments, our in-house experts  visit suppliers to conduct on-site audits, while third-party agencies  review their financial status (credit ratings). The standard contract  that we sign with first-tier suppliers also stipulates social respon- sibilities, such as abiding by the Samsung Electronics Environmen- tal Standard  , international labor practice and human rights stan- dards, and the Samsung Electronics Supplier Code of Conduct. 
Openness Co-Prosperity 
Key Items for Selecting New Suppliers 
Suppliers must satisfy 23 conditions including occupational safety,  fire prevention facilities, occupational health, handling of hazardous  substances and environmental facilities. In particular, nine elements  including fire prevention equipment and the facilities to handle sub- stances of concern waste substances and wastewater are mandatory  elements. 
We conduct on-site audits to ensure that our new suppliers com- ply with 19 conditions including voluntary labor, work hour regula- tions, and prohibiting discrimination. In particular, eight elements  including signing contracts in native languages, prohibition of child  labor, protection of underaged employees, compliance with work  hour regulations, guarantee of breaks leave stated by the law,  accurate calculation and payment of wages, pay stubs prohibition  of back payments, and paying social insurance premiums and other  withholding taxes are mandatory requirements. 
We work only with suppliers that have acquired Samsung Electron- ics' Eco-Partner certification after undergoing an inspection on  their product environment policies, education and training, and the  use of hazardous substances. Through this measure, we manage  the quality of deliverables from suppliers as well as their social and  environmental impacts. 
EHS (Environment, Health, and Safety) 
Eco-Partner Certification 
Labor and Human Rights 
Comprehensive Evaluation of Suppliers   We conduct a yearly comprehensive evaluation of our suppliers to  assess their competitiveness and manage risks. The evaluation is  based on eight criteria - technology, quality, responsiveness, deliv- ery, cost, EHS, financial condition, and compliance with laws and  regulations. It is conducted using various methods, including the  use of transaction data and data provided by suppliers. Since the  evaluation system is operated all year round, suppliers can check  and monitor their performance and risks at any time through the  integrated procurement system.  
Comprehensive Evaluation Process Supplier Samsung Electronics 
Footnote: 1)  Excellent: Give preference in allocating volume for the following year  Underperforming: Request improvement measures  Poor: Reduction in transaction volume and restriction of additional transactions 
Comprehensive Evaluation Items 
Business Competitiveness 
Sustainability Issue  
Footnote: 1) Return to purchasing order 
097 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Announce evaluation  criteria Risk monitoring result compilation Feedback Final evaluation results (end of year) 
Self-evaluation 
1   Year-round   Evaluation 
Technology 
Responsiveness 
Law (Social) 
Identify   Implement Improvement  Areas 
2  Self-  improvement 
The ownership of technology patents and R D investment 
Failure rates and quality management system certification 
Engagement in our policies and activities for innovation 
On time delivery and RTP   response rates 
Increase rate in transaction value and competitiveness in cost 
Workplace safety and international certification 
Credit rating and debt ratio 
Labor   human rights in the workplace and anti-corruption 
Based on performance evaluation results, we grant incentives  to suppliers that have performed well, including the preferential  transaction allocations for the following year and providing sup- port programs. In contrast, we require under-performing suppli- ers to take corrective measures and penalize them by placing less  orders and restricting additional transactions. 
Footnote: 1)  In 2019, we conducted a comprehensive evaluation on 86% of suppliers,  excluding those that have been registered for less than one year. 
Verify Results 
3  Evaluation  
Management for each rating  , support suppliers for improvement 
Corrective  Action Plan and  Execution  
4  Follow-up   Management 
098 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Partner Collaboration To enhance the competitiveness of our supply chain, we are run- ning partner collaboration programs for our first-, second- and  third-tier suppliers. In addition, to encourage economic and social  growth in local communities, we also extended our partner collab- oration programs to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)  
Partner Collaboration Programs 
Training and  Hiring   
Incentives for  Suppliers   
New Technology   Development and   Commercialization   
Footnotes: 1) First-, second- and third-tier suppliers 2) First-, second- and third-tier suppliers (first- and second-tier suppliers for Payment support funds) 3) First- and second-tier suppliers dispatched to Samsung Electronics 4) First-, second- and third-tier suppliers, companies with without prior business affiliation, beneficiaries of Smart Factory Support Program 
Key Programs 
Partner Collaboration  Academy 
Samsung Supplier   Job Fair 
Win-Win funds  
Payment support funds  
Incentives for  semiconductor on-site suppliers 
Technology forum    
 Public-private joint  technology development  project  with the Ministry  of SMEs   Startups 
Patent sharing program  
   Skills enhancement-focused job training aimed at improving the capabilities of suppliers' employees   to share Samsung Electronics  know-how 
   Around 540 courses in 10 fields including leadership, R D, procurement, sales, and management  innovation are provided free of charge 
   70% of the collective training sessions are assigned to job skill training in order to ensure practical  improvements in professional capabilities 
   Job fairs with affiliated companies once every year since 2012 to help suppliers that have difficulties in  securing talents 
   Over 100 suppliers and 10,000 job applicants participated in the 2019 
   Low-interest loans on up to KRW 9 billion for investments in facilities and technological development,  contributing to business stabilization  
   KRW 1 trillion fund for first- and second-tier suppliers in 2010, and added KRW 400 billion for third-tier  suppliers in 2018, establishing a KRW 1.4 trillion fund in total 
   Interest-free loans for first- and second-tier suppliers that needs to pay their suppliers in cash within   30 days of receiving goods 
   KRW 500 billion fund to improve the payment terms between first- and second-tier suppliers since 2017,  and added KRW 300 billion in 2018 to support transactions between second- and third-tier suppliers,  establishing a KRW 800 billion fund in total 
   Provided to the employees of suppliers that have performed well in the annual evaluation 
   Paid KRW 74.07 billion in 2019 and are expanding the scale of incentives each year  
   Introduce high technologies owned by South Korean universities, research institutions, ventures and  SMEs to help suppliers secure necessary technologies in a timely manner 
   To reflect on the technological need of suppliers, regionally hold high technology forum (fundamental    prior technology) and Business technology forum (commercialization   mass-production technology) 
   Support technological cooperation and commercialization by sharing our direction of technological  development as well as providing information on the government s and our R D support projects 
   Executed six times in 2019 
   Opened more than 27,000 of our patents since 2015 to enhance the technological competitiveness of  SMEs 
   Provides patent sharing programs and consultations on a quarterly basis to suppliers including SMEs  without prior business affiliation 
   Participated in the project since 2013 to promote the technological development of South Korean SMEs  that have ideas and technologies but lacks financial resources 
   Discover and co-develop task in all areas where we can cooperate with suppliers 
that do not have track records of working with us. Collaboration  programs are provided in the following areas   training and hir- ing, funding, new technology development and commercialization,  enhancing competitiveness, and expanding sales channels. 
Partner Collaboration Programs 
Category Key Programs 
Competitiveness  Enhancement   
Smart Factory  Support   
Expanding Sales  Channels   
099 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Smart Factory Support Cases 
In 2019, OTOS Wing Co. Ltd., which specializes in medical and industrial safety equipment, became a beneficiary of family innovation, one of our Smart Fac- tory Support Programs and received technological and manpower support to improve productivity. Following the program, OTOS Wing has seen a 32%  increase in the volume of goods produced, a 49% drop in defect ratio, and an 11% reduction in manufacturing costs. In the face of the COVID-19 pandemic in  2020, OTOS Wing donated KRW 50 million to the Community Chest of Korea to return the support it received from the Smart Factory Support Program to  society. In addition, the company donated 400 pairs of medical goggles and 100 eye shields to the City of Daegu as well as 5,000 pairs of medical goggles to  the Korean Ministry of Health and Welfare. Meanwhile, NJ Company, a hand sanitizer manufacturer that benefited from our Smart Factory Support Program  in 2019, boosted its monthly output from 5 tonnes to 200 tonnes after receiving coaching on its overall manufacturing process, evading the risk of going out  of business. NJ Company also donated 10,000 bottles of hand sanitizers to the Korea Federation of SMEs, and is sounding out a global donation through the  United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. With the further spread of COVID-19, we boosted the productivity of four South Korean mask producers  including Hwa-jin Industry by 51% by deploying 43 support personnel from February to March 2020. We shared our know-how in setting up new equip- ments imported from China, restarting old equipments and setting up workstations and moving carts for packaging and by other production processes. In  addition, when there was a shortage of filters used in masks, we assisted with the securing of new supplies by connecting them to Toray Advanced Materials  Korea Inc., which developed filters. Furthermore, in collaboration with the Korean Ministry of SMEs and Startups and the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety,  we received the approval on the entire production process in just three days and demand of masks within South Korea. 
Support the self- sustenance of companies  through programs that  expand sales channels  develop talents and share  technological know-hows  
Improvements to EHS 
Innovation activities  support 
Smart Factory Program    
Marketing and PR   support  
Product export support 
Business management  consulting 
Management advisory  
   Help suppliers build their own management capabilities 
   Established a separate organization in 2014 that supports the EHS management of suppliers 
   Provide various programs including the incubation of EHS Modeling suppliers, EHS consultation, and  improvement activities for suppliers that handle chemicals of high concern 
   Participated in the  Industry Innovation Movement  led by the Korean Ministry of Trade, Industry, and  Energy since 2013 
  Supported a total of 2,376 suppliers on executing productivity innovation activities over 5 years till 2018 
   Provide on-site support to stabilize production for both South Korean suppliers and local suppliers  stationed outside of Korea 
   Share manufacturing innovation technologies and the know-hows of success with South Korean   companies that lack competitiveness in manufacturing. We extend our knowledge to small and   medium-sized companies without prior business affiliation, which in turn enable co-prosperity and   the development  of domestic manufacturing industry. 
   Lay out the foundations of factories through activities that innovate manufacturing sites 
   Support the establishment of factory's operating system automation process simulation ultra-precision  processing 
   Around 200 employees dedicated to Smart Factory Support Program 
   Supported 2,161 SMEs in 5 years since 2015 
   Help expand sales channels by attaining new buyers through Smart Biz Expo, and launching global PR  activities with Arirang TV 
   Trained 5,049 personnel in 2019 through benchmarking(Gwangju site), on-site training and Smart Factory  experts cultivation program 
   Shared technological know-hows in molding automation and other areas with 100 companies in 2019 
   Support  family innovation , the co-innovation of selected companies and their suppliers 
   Provide support on media and broadcast-enabled corporate PR, and sessions to companies either   registered or wishing to be registered with online shopping platforms to suppliers and companies without   prior business affiliation 
   Help companies gain permission and certification on exports and provide mentoring on marketing   activities 
   Provide consultation support by dispatching our experts to suppliers experiencing difficulties in profit  generation 
   Promote healthier corporate practices by improving management processes and reducing inefficiencies  (consultation provided to 95 suppliers from 2014 to 2018, and 22 suppliers in 2019) 
   Our  Supplier Consulting Office  comprised of executive-level consultants providing advice to each   corporate sector based on their on-site experiences and expertise 
100 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Managing the Working Environment of Our Suppliers 
We help all suppliers to abide by our robust Supplier Code of Con- duct and related guidelines, and to manage their work environ- ment risks related to human rights, EHS and ethics in compliance  with local regulations and global standards through various chan- nels. We have established a three-stage process of self-assess- ment, on-site audit and third-party audit to assess the risks in the  work environment of our suppliers and request suppliers to protect  the labor and human rights of their employees. After a compre- hensive review of the results of the third-party audit, compliancy  rate with work environment policies and the supplier s progress,  we award those that have shown an exemplary case of innovation.  These activities are managed through an organization dedicated to  work environment management and the G-SRM. Suppliers who are  doing business with us are obliged to apply our working environ- ment policies at the same level to their sub-suppliers. 
Supplier Code of Conduct We align our Supplier Code of Conduct with that of the RBA and  share updates with our suppliers. We also provide a guide to help  them comply with the Code and to put compliance management  into practice. 
Self-assessments We developed a self-assessment tool using 85 standards set out by  the RBA and distributed it to all our suppliers. Using this tool, our  suppliers conduct a self-assessment once a year and provide state- ments ensuring compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct. 
On-site Audits On-site audits on our suppliers are conducted by designated inde- pendent assessment managers within Samsung Electronics as a  separate task without the involvement of our procurement team.  In order to thoroughly inspect the working environment of our sup- pliers, we collect and examine the opinions of suppliers  employees  and identify problems that need improvement. We register identi- fied problems on the G-SRM and suppliers draw up plans and exe- 
Integrated Working Environment Management Process 
  Annual self-assessment of all first-tier  suppliers using a checklist based on 85  RBA criteria 
Self-assessments 
  On-site audits on priority suppliers  selected based on location, transaction  volume, past track records, and  self-assessment results to identify  improvement tasks (365 suppliers audited  in 2019) 
  Conducted by independent dedicated  audit staff, led by RBA-certified auditors  
  Square root of total number of employees  of suppliers interviewed  
On-site Audits 
cute measures to improve them. We incentivize our suppliers to take  immediate action wherever possible, and conduct audits to deter- mine whether corrective steps have been taken within three months  after issues have been registered. For identified gaps that require  significant time and financial resources, such as facilities investment  and certifications, we check progress and monitor improvements  based on action plans developed and agreed with our suppliers.  In 2019, we conducted on-site audits on 365 suppliers. Applying the  RBA-based method of calculating the compliance rate and taking  corrective measures, the average compliance rate of audited suppli- ers came out to 95%. We also set up specific regional themes within  the supply chain and conducted special audits on forced labor. 
Special Audit on Forced Labor 
Audit Item 
Use of child  labor  
Use of  underage  labor 
Employment  of migrant  workers 
  RBA-certified third-party audit firms  randomly select suppliers and conduct  Initial audits based on RBA criteria  
  Have conducted unannounced audits  since 2015 to ensure more accurate  verification  
  Take instant action on tasks that can be  immediately addressed. Results verified  through Closure Audits 
Details and Audit Results 
-  Targets: Intensive checks on more than 140  audits were conducted during school vacation  period 
-  Subjects: ID verification, collecting copies of  ID along with signatures 
- Results: No child labor cases were found 
-  Targets: 45 suppliers  
     conducted alongside compliance awareness  training for suppliers 
-  Results: No child labor cases were found, and  suppliers took corrective steps concerning the  improvement areas identified in the process 
- Targets: 17 suppliers 
-  Subjects: recruitment commissions,  collecting of IDs, dormitory environment 
-  Results: Suppliers took corrective steps  concerning certain violations  
      From January to April 2020 our on-site  experts assessed follow up of corrective  action plans 
Third-party Audits 
Average workweek compliance rate   (60hr  per week)   
Average weekly working hours 
Maximum average weekly   working hours 
Average work hours of employees who  work 40 hours or more per week 
Compliance with the guarantee of   one-day off per week 
Third-party Audits  To help manage the work environment of our supply chain better,  we significantly increased the number of suppliers subject to third- party audits, particularly in the Southeast Asia region, where there  have been general migrant worker issues since 2018. The com- pliance rate in 2019 was similar to that of the previous year, con- firming that our efforts to improve the work environment are tak- ing root. However, we saw a temporary decrease in the labor and  human rights performance following the launch of new and high  spec models, and the relocation of global production sites. Fur- thermore, we found inadequacies in updating the work environ- ment policy in accordance with the change in local laws and reg- ulations at several newly registered suppliers, so addressed them  right away. 
Compliance Rate by Audit Criteria 
Labor and human rights 
Health and safety 
Environment 
Management system 
Work Hours Management 
Footnote: 1)  A workweek should not be more than 60 hours per week (RBA criteria, ILO  conventions on working hours) 
101 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
54hr or  under 
51hr or  under 
51hr or  under 
Grievance Handling Channels To facilitate communication between the management team and  employees at suppliers, we support our suppliers to establish and  operate their own grievance handling channels. In addition, we  operate a hotline to receive reports on suppliers  violations of the  work environment standards or human rights, and address them  by conducting on-site audits. Reports are submitted via landline,  email, or mobile phone, and posters introducing the hotline system  in local languages are displayed in places including offices, hall- ways, manufacturing sites, dormitories, and cafeterias. All reports  go through a fact check within a week, and the grievant is shared  with follow up plans reached out. 
We plan to enhance the credibility of our reporting system by invit- ing views on improving the hotline from our suppliers. 
Hotline Reports Status Unit: no. of cases 
Type of grievances 
Total number of reports 
Complaints related to managers 
Environment health safety 
Work hours 
Compliance Workshop 
We hold Compliance Workshops twice a year for the heads  and working-level employees of suppliers. At these events,  we share supplier audit results and improvement cases in  areas, such as labor and human rights and regional EHS  trends by region. In addition, we provide special training on  chemical substances, and award suppliers that have excelled  in labor and human rights, and EHS. Those companies that  have participated also share their experiences with their  own suppliers. 
Life Design Training for Employees of Suppliers 
In 2019, we provided training for female employees at suppli- ers in Vietnam on career development, family financial man- agement, and compliance awareness. We trained instruc- tors from learning and development teams at 139 suppliers  to help roll out our training to 77,752 employees at suppli- ers. We received positive feedbacks from employees at our  Vietnamese suppliers and plan to expand the program to our  worksites around the world. 
102 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Transparency in Managing Responsible Minerals   
We comply with the OECD Due Diligence Guidance   to minimize  the negative societal and environmental impacts of mining miner- als in conflict-affected and high-risk areas, including human rights  infringements and environmental problems. We are in the pro- cess of establishing a conflict-free system that prohibits the use  of conflict minerals that have been mined from 10 African coun- tries, including the Democratic Republic of Congo. Furthermore,  we require all suppliers to implement processes that allow them  to systematically check the removal and management of minerals  that have been mined illegally in conflict-affected and high-risk  areas from product parts and raw materials they supply to us.  
Risks related to responsible minerals are managed by our Partner  Collaboration Center under the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), who also  serves as the company s CFO. The responsible minerals personnel  in each business division manages and checks the departments   and suppliers  related risks. The Center also cooperates with the  relevant bodies under the company-wide risk management sys- tem including the Corporate Sustainability Management Office,  the Communication Team, and the Corporate Compliance Team.  As for newly identified responsible minerals, we work jointly with  our global stakeholders by participating in councils, such as the  Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) and the European Partnership  for Responsible Minerals (EPRM).  
Footnotes : 1)  More details are available at 'Samsung Electronics' Responsible Minerals Report' 2)  OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from  Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas 
Samsung Electronics' Minerals Due Diligence Process Based on OECD Due Diligence Guidance 
   Secure a commitment from   suppliers to ban the use of conflict  affected and high-risk minerals  from all first-tier suppliers    Distribute the conflict-affected  areas and high-risk minerals  management guide and support  working-level training    Request lower-tier suppliers to  expand their policy banning the  use of conflict-affected and   high-risk minerals and to source  ethically and responsibly 
Raise Suppliers   Awareness 
   Monitor data on all   first-tier suppliers use of   conflict-affected and  high-risk minerals as well  as smelters  use of such  minerals along the supply  chain 
Inspect the Use of  Conflict-affected  and High-risk   Minerals along the Supply Chain 
   Conduct on-site   inspections on the data  submitted by suppliers    Identify and share best  practices in suppliers   management of   conflict-affected and   high-risk minerals 
Conduct   Reasonable Due   Diligence and   Verification on Inspection   Outcomes 
Management Status According to Samsung Electronics'  Due Diligence Process Raising Awareness of Suppliers Employees in charge of procurement receive mandatory job train- ing on conflict minerals, which allows us to provide systematic  support and guide to suppliers. From 2015 to 2019, a total of 3,157  employees completed the training on conflict mineral policies.  During the same period, we provided training sessions to 2,311  employees at suppliers, covering our policies, instructions on using  the conflict mineral management system, and the process required  to become a RMAP  -certified smelter. 
Footnote: 1) Responsible Minerals Assurance Process 
Survey on the Status of Minerals from Conflict-affected   and High-risk Areas within the Supply Chain  We collected data from the worksites of all suppliers for the first  quarter of 2020 related to their use of conflict minerals and cobalt  as well as information on smelters within our supply chain using  the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) and the Cobalt  Reporting Template (CRT). In November 2019, we conducted sam- pling tests on mica and graphite and plan to use this data for future  studies on need. 
Reasonable Due Diligence and Verification of Survey Results After an internal review on data submitted by all suppliers, we con- ducted on-site audits on 225 global suppliers   that needed further  checkups and verified the reliability of their data and their operation  of conflict mineral-related policies. In addition, we provided addi- tional training to suppliers that needed improvement. 
Footnote: 1)  The audit prioritized companies that were newly registered in the preceding  year, ones that received poor ratings in the preceding year, and ones that sub- mitted erroneous information in the pertinent year 
   Categorize suppliers into  four rating groups based on  inspection outcomes (based  on the credibility of   submitted data and the  management level of   conflict-affected and   high-risk minerals) 
Verify and Assess  Risk Factors within  the Supply Chain 
   Restrict transactions with  suppliers that work with  non-third-party-audited  smelters    Recommend smelters  within the supply chain  to become third-party  certified 
Develop   Improvement Plans  for Risk and Report  Relevant Data 
Identifying and Evaluating Risks within the Supply Chain Following an on-site audit, we rank our suppliers according to the  reliability of their materials and their management of conflict min- erals. We then select exemplary cases and share the best prac- tice with other suppliers for benchmarking purposes. At the same  time, we require suppliers where audits have identified a need for  improvement to reinforce their materials and provide additional  on-site guidance. Through these measures, we check and improve  our suppliers  conflict minerals-related policies and management  systems, which in turn helps them boost their management capa- bilities and establish due diligence systems. 
Establishing Risk Management Plan   and Reporting Relevant Information We audit every supplier on their use of conflict minerals and the  origins of the minerals. For suppliers that use minerals that are not  certified by the RMAP, we encourage them to switch to RMAP-cer- tified smelters. For materials made from minerals which are not  RMAP certified, we reject transactions through the G-SRM. In addi- tion, we have established various channels and provide around- the-clock support to suppliers in resolving their grievances related  to conflict minerals. 
In 2019, we found that three smelters within our supply chain  were delisted from the list of RMAP-certified smelters   and we  requested 195 suppliers that used these smelters to make adjust- ments, such as changing their suppliers. As a result, all of our sup- pliers are doing business only with RMAP-certified smelters, as of  the end of 2019. 
Footnotes: 1)  NPM Silmet AS (tantalum), Modeltech Sdn Bhd (tin), Al Etihad Gold Refinery  DMCC (gold) 
No. of RMAP Certified Smelters of Conflict Minerals  (100% Certified as of Dec. 2019) Unit : No.of Smelters 
103 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Cooperation with External Parties To effectively improve our responsible minerals sourcing policies  and resolve problems, we cooperate with companies working in the  same sector and gather advice from relevant stakeholders. We also  engage in a variety of activities, including social contribution activ- ities and collaborative programs between the private and public  sectors to drive best practice. 
Aiming at sustainably improving the living and working conditions  of the people employed in the artisanal cobalt sector and the sur- rounding communities, we launched a pilot program,  Cobalt for  Development  in partnership with our stakeholders. To jointly  respond with global enterprises and various stakeholders, we also  participate in RMI and EPRM to identify the origins of the miner- als circulated in the global supply chain. Also, as a member of RMI  Steering Committee, we take part in the governance of a key initia- tive that is responsible for standardizing the system for surveying  the status on responsible minerals and certifying smelters. 
We have tightened our management standards so that waste gen- erated by manufacturing sites in South Korea, as well as miner- als-containing waste generated while processing the collected  e-waste, are transferred only to RMAP-certified smelters. To  achieve this goal in South Korea, we are cooperating with the Korea  Urban Mining Association to urge smelters in South Korea to seek  RMAP certification. 
Industry Cooperation Project for Sustainable Cobalt  Mining (Cobalt for Development)  
For the contribution to sustainable development at cobalt  mining in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, we joined  hands with Deutsche Gesellschaft f r Internationale Zusam- menarbeit(GIZ), Samsung SDI, the BMW Group, and BASF  to initiate a pilot project called  Cobalt for Development  in  2019. The project aims to improve the labor conditions of  small-scale cobalt mining sectors and the living conditions  of surrounding communities. To this end, we are planning to  conduct EHS risk assessments, provide trainings for employ- ees, expand the provision of protective equipments for indi- viduals, and offer trainings on financial literacy, farming  agriculture, and education for children.  
SUSTAINABILITY   FOUNDATION 
Our Alignment with the  United Nations Sustainable  Development Goals  107 
Responsible   Business Practices  111 
Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 
Sustainability   Value Creation 108 
Performance Summary 113 
Risk Management 110 
Communication and engagement with various stakeholders is  essential for us to fulfill our duties as a responsible global corporate  citizen. We strive to build a cooperative relationship and enhance  
Media    Prompt and transparent  disclosure of information    Press releases     Samsung Electronics Newsroom    Support news coverage    Host Media Day 
Governments    Indirect economic impacts    Fair trade    Health and safety    Compliance 
Local  Communities    Local recruitment, local  economy revitalization,   and other indirect  economic effects    Environmental protection     Financial contributions and  volunteer work  
NGOs, CSR  Councils,  Specialized  Institutions 
Suppliers    Fair trade    Shared growth     Labor   human rights  protection 
Employees    Workplace health and safety     Diversity and inclusion     Training and career development     Employment stability and benefits    Labor relations 
Shareholders   and Investors    Economic performance    Risk management     Information disclosure    Sustainability issues  (environmental, social,  governance, etc.) 
Stakeholder Engagement Map 
Stakeholders 
106 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 
   Social responsibility for local  communities and environment     Contributions to the UN SDGs     Prompt and transparent  disclosure of information 
Key Topics of Interest Communication Channels Activities 
   Product service quality     Safe product use     Accurate product information    Transparent communication 
   Policy meetings    National Assembly    Policy consultative bodies 
   Local volunteer centers    Local community councils     Local community blogs (Suwon,   Gumi and Gwangju worksites)     Yongin-Hwaseong community blog 
   Corporate Conferences     Meetings with NGOs    Gather feedback from global NGOs     RBA, BSR, and GeSI activities    EPRM and RMI activities 
   Hotline, online reporting system    Suppliers conference     Partner Collaboration Day    Shared Growth Academy     Management counseling group   for suppliers 
   Works Council    Employee counseling centers     Employee satisfaction surveys     Samsung LiVE     Reporting systems (compliance, ethics) 
   Investor relations (IR) meetings     General shareholders' meetings     1:1 meetings     Analyst Day    Samsung Electronics brand image videos 
   Customer satisfaction surveys     Contact centers (call centers), customer  service centers     Samsung Electronics Newsroom     Samsung Semicon Story     Young Samsung Community 
mutual understanding in sustainability topics with our stakehold- ers through various activities such as stakeholder forums, surveys,  and on-site visits. 
   Operate SMEs support programs with  government agencies     Cooperate with the government to establish  and operate venture investment system 
   Local SMEs support activities including smart  factory construction    Preservation activity for streams nearby  worksites     Corporate citizenship programs in education  and employment     Employee volunteer groups 
   Promote fair trade and shared growth     Support suppliers on their innovations initiatives    Tech Trans Fair     Support funds for suppliers    Responsible management of suppliers'  work environment 
   Work environment management    Establish creative working culture    Customized career development program     Host business briefings 
   Stable profit generation     Enhance shareholder return policy     Governance Committee under the Board  of Directors     Transparent operation of external  sponsorships  
   Enhance product quality and safety  management system     Provide product information on   country-specific websites     Gather and address voice of customers 
Our Approach Major Activities SDGs 
What We Do in Alignment with UN SDGs 
At the United Nations General Assembly in September 2015, the  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted for the pur- pose of establishing a sustainable society across the world through  community development, environmental protection and inclusive  economic growth. The timeline for these UN SDGs runs from 2016  
Our Alignment with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals  
107 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
GHG emissions. 
we have signed Power Purchasing Agreements, and have pursued Green Pricing. 
process them to minimize the impact on water resources. 
energy at our worksites via the installation of solar panels and geothermal units,  
standard which is stricter than legal requirements of each country and safely  
necessary to plan for a better future. 
service, genetic information or political propensity. 
have invested in facilities and optimized the operation of equipments to reduce  
the manufacturing processes. 
life span use. We will continue to strive to minimize our environmental footprint  
through the recycling and reuse of resources. 
protection of their habitats. 
identity sexual expression, social status, physical disabilities, pregnancy, military  
expert personnel to enable local residents and communities to build capabilities  
where our employees can work without concerns over their health and safety in  
campaign. When treating wastewater from worksites, we apply an in-house  
innovative culture and expand investments in R Ds and productivity growth. 
and cooperating with stakeholders. 
importance and impact, devising a strategy to respond to them. Furthermore, we  
consumers' basic rights to maintain world-class security for our products and  
gender, race, nationality, religion, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender  
reduction in the use of virgin natural resources, and the extension of product  
including the identification of endangered species near our worksites and  
with international laws and regulations related to cybersecurity and protect  
materials, product durability improvement, compact product packaging,  
particular, we have consistently undertaken ecosystem protection activities, 
all consumers to benefit equally from cutting-edge technology. We also comply  
not tolerate any kinds of discrimination in our HR management on the grounds of  
communities, while providing a variety of support through ICT knowledge and  
help women globally and prepare youth for the future. 
tackle global climate change. As such, we strive to expand the use of renewable  
medical care, employment and environment by sharing our advanced technology  
the use of chemicals of concern. In addition, we strive to create an environment  
We are committed to minimizing health and environmental impacts related to  
We run customized education programs to promote the development of local  
We have a firm belief that ensuring equal opportunities is key to economic  
We make efficient use of water through the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle)  
We are fully aware of our responsibility to expand our renewable energy use to  
We are committed to pursuing innovation and new growth drivers to share related  
We strive to improve the accessibility of our IT devices and technology to allow  
We offer equal opportunities to all employees and applicants. In addition, we do  
We have five circular economy principles the expansion of the use of recycled  
We have prioritized climate change issues according to the degree of their  
We are committed to minimizing the impact of our operation on biodiversity. In  
We run local programs to address a variety of social issues related to education,  
technology with our society. As such, we run programs and systems to build an  
growth, political stability, and social change. We endeavor to find new ways to  
until 2030. As a global corporate citizen, we aim to take account of  the SDGs in how we run our business. We focus on the SDGs most  relevant to our businesses and established approaches to help  achieve them. Based on these approaches, we have engaged in a  variety of sustainability activities to help achieve these goals. 
  Disclose information based on TCFD guidelines 
  Renewable energy used in 2019: 3,217GWh 
   CDP Climate Change:  Carbon management Honors Club   
  Samsung Solve For Tomorrow 
  World Water Day    Participation in CDP Water 
   Scored 100 out of 100 on the Human Rights Campaign  
  Samsung Smart School   Samsung Innovation Campus  
  Earth Day campaign   Launched smartphone cases using recycled plastics 
   Work support system for employees with disabilities 
  EHS Innovation Day    Disclosure of regulated materials use  
  Expanded modular design-adopted products range 
   Certified as family-friendly company by the Korean Ministry  
  Expanded Knox platform-adopted products range 
   Stream ecosystem protection activities 
   Education and medical  support activities   in response to COVID-19    Galaxy Clean-up partnership  
  Work support for childbirth and childcare 
  C-Lab (Creative Lab)    Smart factory support program for 505 companies   
  4C Accessibility Design Principles 
  Female leadership training and mentoring  
Foundation's Corporate Equality Index 
of Gender Equality and Family 
(June 2018   June 2019) 
  Public-private AI Council     Cobalt for Development 
  Dream Class   Semiconductor Academy   Junior Software Academy 
108 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Sustainability Value Creation 
Samsung Electronics has been using the KPMG  True Value  meth- odology since 2016 to measure both the positive and negative  effects of our sustainable management activities and achieve- ments in sustainable value creation  we also use it as a guide to  identify our next course of action. In order to convert our sustain- able value creation activities into monetary value, we reviewed  research and selected measurement indices. We also disclosed our  measurement methodology in detail to enhance the credibility of  our data. 
Samsung Electronics  sustainability management value is com- posed of financial socio- economic and environmental values and  each are calculated as positive ( ) or negative (-). The financial value  
Value Measurement Method 
Financial value 
Socio-economic  value 
Environmental  value 
Footnotes: 1) Exchange rates are based on the rates as of Dec. 31, 2019 (1 USD   1,158 KRW  1 EURO   1,297 KRW) 2) G.Psacharopoulos and H.A. Patrinos, Returns to investment in education: a further update (2004) 3) BCG, The cement sector: a strategic contributor to Europe s future 4) G. Hutton, Global costs and benefits of drinking-water supply and sanitation interventions to reach the MDG target and universal coverage (2012) 5) EPA, Technical update of the social cost of carbon for regulatory impact analysis (2013) 6) EEA, Revealing the cost of air pollution from industrial facilities in Europe (2011) 7) TruCost PLC, Natural capital at risk: the top 100 externalities of business (2013) 8) A. Rabl, J. V. Spadaro and A. Zoughaib, Environmental impacts and costs of solid waste: a comparison of landfill and incineration (2009) 
Calculation Method 
Management Activities Investment 
- Investments in CSR programs  - Environmental emissions data -  Investments to support our suppliers,  etc. 
Local communities  development  (education) 
KRW 142.4 billion 
Local community  development    
Workplace GHG emissions 
Environmental impact on  atmosphere 
Environmental impact on  water system 
Environmental impact of  waste 
Investor value 
Supplier support 
Benefits      
Monetary Value 
Return on investments based on  social benefits of education 118 % 
-  Research results from global research  institutes 
-  Carbon price of corresponding  country, etc. 
Donations for local communities  Return on investment of education projects (118%)     Return on investment of infrastructure projects (250%)    Return on investment of sanitation facility projects (550%)   
The social cost related to GHG emissions   
The social cost related to air pollutant (NOx, Sox, PM) emissions    
The social cost related to water usage based on the level of water shortage in the  location of the business   
The social cost related to waste landfill incineration recycling   
Calculation methodology   
Net income generated by the company during 2019 fiscal year 
Dividends and interest payments to investors and creditors 
Win-Win funds and incentives to suppliers 
is calculated from the net profit generated by Samsung Electronics  during the past year. Socio-economic value is calculated by mea- suring the monetary value brought by company to major stakehold- ers including investors and suppliers, as well as the company s con- tributions to local community development. Environmental value is  calculated by measuring GHG emissions, waste, recycling, and use  of water, among others. 
We are committed to improving accuracy in quantifying sustain- able management activities by closely monitoring global trends  in social and environmental value measurement. We will continue  our efforts in accessing and managing our social and environmental  activities from as many perspectives as possible. 
Economic, social and environmental  impacts value 
Socio-economic Value 
KRW 168 billion 
2019 Value Creation Achievements 
From January 1 to December 31, 2019, the total value of sustainable  management created by Samsung Electronics amounts to approx- imately KRW 32.15 trillion. The financial value came out to be KRW  21.74 trillion, down by 51% from 2018 due to the decreased net  income. Despite such conditions, based on our new CSR vision of   Together for Tomorrow!  which pursues socio-economic value cre- ation, we increased our support for future generations, and have  continuously strengthened our partner collaboration programs  for improving the competitiveness of the supply chain. Further- more, we continued to expand the use of renewable energy since  declaring our commitment to go 100% renewable energy in the  United States, China and Europe to improve environmental value.  As a result, we generated socio-economic and environmental value  amounting to KRW 10.41 trillion in 2019 on par with that of 2018. 
Footnote: 1)  Changes of methodology used to calculate social contribution costs and GHG  emissions caused the re-calculation of the sustainable management value  over the past three years. 
109 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
2019 True Value 
EARNINGS SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENTAL TRUE EARNINGS 
Financial Value 
Investor Value Supplier support Local  community development 
GHG emissions Atmospheric environmental impact 
-0.64 -0.003 
Socio-economic and Environmental Value 
Aquatic environmental impact 
-0.62 -0.001 
Environmental impact of waste 
Unit: trillion KRW 
True   Value 
Unit: trillion KRW 
110 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Risk Management 
To ensure market competitiveness, we proactively identify and  systematically respond to a variety of internal and external risk  factors, including sustainability risks. In line with the top manage- ment s determination to manage risks, we have established specific  risk response policies and processes for each business unit. 
Responses to Division-specific Risks  Each of our three business divisions has systematic risk response  policies and processes. These are designed to detect and highlight  financial risks factors, such as market, liquidity, and credit risks,  as well as non-financial risks including the corporate sustainabil- ity issues. Risk factors management and response measures are  prepared by the Management Committee, led by our top manage- ment, and the Risk Council, led by the Chief Financial Officer (CFO).  The CFO also serves as the company's Chief Risk Officer (CRO), and  operates the Risk Council each week in collaboration with the heads  of various departments, including Legal, Human Resources, Com- pliance, Communications, Public Affairs, Global Environment, Part- ner Collaboration, and Global Product Quality Innovation to handle  specific risks.  
Risk Management System 
Business-  related risk  management 
Business  Division Functional  Unit 
Corporate  Management  Office 
Finance, HR,  IR, media,  public  affairs-  related risk  management 
CSR Risk  Management  Council Risk Council led by CFO 
Legal risk  management 
Corporate  Legal Office 
EHS, suppliers,  procurement,  reputation,  brand, quality,  compliance-  related risk  management 
Board of  Directors 
Region-  specific risk  management 
Governance  Committee 
Regional  Office    Subsidiary 
Global Issue Monitoring We seek advice on a variety of risk factors through our global net- work as well as our internal and external channels, to identify and  proactively address economic, social and environmental risks. In  particular, we establish dedicated organization to closely respond  to external issues such as the issue with they supply of semiconduc- tor material and the COVID-19 pandemic in 2019. 
Reinforcing the Board s Supervision on Risk Management Aside from our internal risk management organizations, we oper- ate the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Risk Management  Council to strengthen the Board's supervision on non-financial risks  that have vast impacts on our business. Independent Directors and  our related departments participate in the CSR Risk Management  Council under the Governance Committee and examine related  agendas, supervise the internal management system, and explore  ways to solve issues through quarterly discussions. Agenda items  on non-financial risks, such as matters concerning climate change,  labor and human rights, and safety, are reported as key issues to  the Board, which reviews and manages them comprehensively. 
Systems for Company-wide Risk Management In addition to the risk management functions of each division, we  have a robust company-wide risk management system. In 2004 we  introduced the Disclosure Control and Procedures (DC P) system to  manage financial risks, along with a series of systematic CEO CFO  approval procedures and internal control measures. We also estab- lished various IT systems to prevent company-wide risks, such as  Global Enterprise Resource Planning (G-ERP), Global Supply Chain  Management (G-SCM) for the management of financial and supply  chain risks, Global Environment, Health   Safety (G-EHS) System  for integrated management of EHS risks, and Global Supplier Rela- tionship Management (G-SRM) for integrated management of sup- plier risks.  
COVID-19 Risk Responses  
Since the early stage of the COVID-19 outbreak, we have oper- ated a separate organization under the supervision of the  CRO that monitors risks across the supply chain in real-time.  To ensure smooth logistics operations within the value chain  - from raw materials to finished products - amid the global  spread of COVID-19, we are continuing various activities using  our global network, diversifying logistics and production  bases, supporting customs clearance and the air transport and  entry of our as well as our suppliers  employees. 
Responsible Business Practices  
Ethical Management We provide the  Samsung Business Principles  to external stake- holders, including suppliers and customers, while operating a chan- nel to report any violation of Principles  . Furthermore, we post   Employee Business Conduct Guidelines  on our in-house intranet  to encourage our employees to maintain integrity in practice. The  Samsung Business Principles, violation reporting channel, and the  Employee Business Conduct Guidelines  are all available in 15 dif- ferent languages, including English and Korean.  
In 2019, among 548 reports collected through channels around the  globe, consumer complaints accounted for 28% of the cases, while  issues related to corruptions accounted for 11%. All reports related  to corruptions are fact-checked through inspections and disciplined  according to the severity of each case. Afterwards, the results are  reported to the Audit Committee twice a year. 
Furthermore, we provide anti-corruption training in various for- mats to all employees at least once a year. In addition, we promote  transparent business practices through efforts such as asking sup- pliers to post  Samsung Electronics Business Guidelines  on their  websites, which lay out major don ts in business, including corrup- tions and fraudulent conducts. 
Footnote:  1) www.sec-audit.com 
111 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Reports by Type   Number of Reports   Others   Consumer Complaints   Corruption-related 
2017 608 reports 
2019 2018 375 reports 
Total Number of Employees who Took Anti-corruption Training 
2018 303,445 
2019 276,621 
2017 317,965  
548 reports 
Unit: person 
112 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Tax Risk Management We prioritize compliance with the law and fulfilling our tax filing  and payment obligations. We are proud to make a significant contri- bution to society and its national wealth. 
Tax Management Policy 
Key Criteria in Tax Risk Assessment 
Thorough analysis  of specific factual  grounds 
Regulatory Compliance and Fulfilment of Tax Filing   and Payment Obligations 
We comply with the laws and regulations of the countries in  which we do business, faithfully fulfil tax reporting and payment  obligations, and do not transfer income to low-tax countries such  as tax havens in order to evade taxes.  
To this end, we maintain a honest and transparent relationship  with the tax authorities of each country and provide the relevant  evidence and supporting documents upon request. 
As a company with an active presence in many countries, we  make sure that we understand the tax laws of different countries  so as to prevent tax risks, and conduct business within the scope  of the tax laws after examining the laws and practices pertaining  to our transactions.  
All our employees in charge of tax management comply with the  laws and regulations in accordance with our tax policy and per- form their tasks according to the principle of maintaining a trans- parent relationship with the tax authorities. 
Review of relevant   domestic and   international tax  regulations and  practices 
Profit and cost  scenario   analysis on all  plans possible 
Tax Risk Management Activities To comply with all related laws and practices, we operate a system  designed to carefully assess and review tax risks and make deci- sions based on these results. We also meet all tax report and pay- ment deadlines, and document and maintain proof of all our trans- actions. In addition, we maintain a transparent relationship with the  tax authorities while responding promptly and accurately to their  requests for data. In terms of domestic transactions within South  Korea, we maintain fair trade prices when dealing with third parties  and other related parties under the relevant laws. We are also mak- ing efforts to prevent international tax risks by trading at normal  transfer prices in our international transactions. 
Contribution to Local Community Development   (through Tax Risk Management) As a major taxpayer and investor in each country in which we do  business, we contribute to the growth of local economies by creat- ing jobs as well as purchasing products and services.  
Tax Risk Assessment We strive to prevent any tax risks that may arise from trading goods  and services, M As, corporate restructuring, international transac- tions, new projects, and changes in transaction terms. Whenever a  business decision needs to be made, our tax-related departments  carefully assess tax risks in cooperation with external experts, and  the relevant department makes the final decision by considering  the results of the tax risk review along with other factors. 
Likelihood and  existence of   potential risks 
Countermeasures  in case of risks 
Performance Summary 
Economic Performance 
Footnotes: 1)  Changes in the methods for calculating social contribution costs have resulted  in the re-calculation over the past three years 2)  Changes in the methods for calculating social contribution costs have resulted  in the re-calculation over the past three years 3) Sum of all social contributions 4)  Dividends 
Key Financial Performance  
Sales by Business Division   Region 
Sales by business division 
(Absolute value) 
Sales by business division 
Sales by region 
(Absolute value) 
Sales by region 
Economic Value Distribution 
[Supplier] Procurement costs 
[Local Community] Social contributions   
[Shareholder   Investor] Dividends 
[Shareholder   Investor] Pay-out ratio 
[Creditor] Interest expenses 
[Employee] Remuneration 
[Government] Taxes and dues by region 
Ratio of Economic Value Ditributed in 2019  
113 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Supplier   
Local community   
Operating profit Net income 
Consumer Electronics 
IT   Mobile Communications 
Device Solutions 
Consumer Electronics 
IT   Mobile Communications 
Device Solutions 
South Korea 
Asia   Africa 
South Korea 
Asia   Africa 
South Korea 
Americas   Europe 
Shareholder   investor   
5)  Interest expenses 6)  Sum of salaries, severance payments, and welfare benefits included in the  cost of sales, R D costs and SG A costs 7)  Sum of consolidated income taxes, other taxes, and dues calculated on an  accrued basis 
239.6 53.6 42.2 
Unit 2017 2018 2019 
Unit 2017 2018 2019 
Creditor   
  Based on the consolidated financial statement 
243.8 58.9 44.3 
Employee   
230.4 27.8 21.7 
   Based on net sales 
Government   
KRW trillion 
KRW trillion 
KRW trillion 
KRW trillion 
KRW trillion 
KRW trillion 
KRW trillion 
KRW trillion 
KRW trillion 
KRW trillion 
KRW trillion 
KRW trillion 
KRW trillion 
KRW trillion 
KRW trillion 
KRW trillion 
KRW trillion KRW trillion KRW trillion 
114 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Social Performance 
Footnote: 1)Total hours volunteered by employees global-wide   Total number of employees global-wide 
Footnotes: 1)  Numbers are as of end of each year, excluding staffs dispatched from third parties, employees on leave, interns and those on leave of absence to take   full-time degree courses 2) South Korea: Classified according to the Act on the Protection, etc. of Fixed-term and Part-time Workers, Overseas: Contractor   Apprentice  3) Recategorized the previous 'Manufacturing' job function to 'Manufacturing', and 'Quality Assurance   Environment, Health and Safety' job functions 4) Including those working flexible work hours and holding other positions 5) Including executives at global worksites who hold Vice President position or above 6) Ratio of employees who resigned during the concerned fiscal year against the average No. of employees 
Total hours volunteered by employees global-wide Volunteer hours per employee   Accumulated no. of   beneficiaries from  Corporate Citizenship   Programs   
Total employees   
  Employees by contract type 
Employees by age group 
Employees by job functions   
Employees by job positions 
Employees by region 
Turnover rate     
Welfare and benefit   expenditure in domestic   and global sites 
Corporate Citizenship 
Labor and Human Rights 
Samsung Solve for Tomorrow Samsung Smart School Samsung Tech Institute Samsung Innovation Campus Samsung Dream Class 
Global (excluding South Korea) South Korea Regular Contract-based   Under 30 30's 40's and older Product development Manufacturing Quality assurance     Environment, health and safety Sales   Marketing Others Staffs   Managers Executives   South Korea Southeast Asia   Southwest Asia    Japan China North America   Central   and Latin America Europe Middle East Africa Global turnover rate   (excludingSouth Korea) Turnover rate in South Korea     
1,259,893 3.93  743,348  2,228,150  85,388 -  80,713 
320,671 224,213 96,458 316,534 4,137 171,877 100,856 47,938 65,494 179,210 23,844  
25,266 26,857 256,944 62,406 1,321 96,458 145,577  
34,843 25,814  
14,711 2592 676 17.1  
2.3 3,813    
2017 2018 2019 Unit 
2017 2018 2019 Unit 
1,131,915 3.66  1,513,651  2,712,024  113,395 -  92,881 
309,630 209,925 99,705 304,640 4,990 150,565 106,226 52,839 66,328 164,530 22,793  
25,731 30,248 240,135 68,156 1,339 99,705 137,365  
29,110 25,630  
14,681 2,552 587 17.9  
2.3 4,096    
878,448 3.06  1,693,535  3,825,864  119,774  13,290  103,143 
287,439 185,380 102,059 282,874 4,565 124,442 105,862 57,135 69,370 144,744 20,555  
24,067 28,703 213,916 72,175 1,348 102,059 121,819  
20,649 25,270  
14,061 3,008 573 19.5  
2.5 4,490    
No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons  
No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons  
No. of persons No. of persons  
No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons %  
No. of hours No. of hours No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons 
% KRW billion    
Footnotes: 1)  (Total training hours   8) counted as one person, updated the data in 2017 and  2018 using this method 2) (Total online   offline training hours   total No. of employees) 3) Scope of data collection: Employees in South Korea 4) Total training expenditure    total No. of employees in South Korea 
Footnotes: 1) Based on the total number of global employees including South Korea 2)  Recategorized the previous 'Manufacturing' job function to 'Manufacturing', and 'Quality Assurance   Environment, Health and Safety' job functions 3)  Including executives at global worksites who hold Vice President position or above 4) Employees in South Korea 
Employees who applied for re-employment through the Career   Consulting Center   Employees re-employed through the Career Consulting Center   Percentage of employees re-employed through the Career  Consulting Center 
Employees who  received training   
Average training hours  per person   
Training expenditures 
Percentage of female employees   Percentage of female employees   by job functions     
Percentage of female employees  by Region   
Percentage of female employees  by Job Positions 
Employees who took childcare leave   Employees who returned to work after  childcare leave   Daycare center capacity   No. of daycare centers   No. of employees with disabilities   Ratio of employees with disabilities   
115 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Career Development 
Diversity and Inclusion 
Global (Excluding South Korea) South Korea 
Global (Excluding South Korea) South Korea Total training expenditures   Training expenditures per person   Training expenditures against sales   Training expenditures against   remuneration costs   
Product development Manufacturing Quality assurance     Environment, health and safety Sales   Marketing Others South Korea Southeast Asia   Southwest Asia    Japan China North America     Central and Latin America Europe Middle East Africa Staff Managers Executives   
5) Total training expenditure   consolidated sales 6) Total training expenditures   remuneration costs 7)  On a cumulative basis since 2001 
35.0 14.9 33.6 53.1 13.2 6.8 3,643 94.4  
2,905 14 1,530 1.6 
286 168 118 73.5 68.3 85.6 1,097 1,137 0.05 1  
2017 2018 2019 
45.0 17.7 57.8 48.1  
29.7 39.4 25.3 63.1  
34.7 14.5 36.5 51.6 14.2 6.3 3,305 95.9  
2,980 14 1,538 1.5 
268 157 111 62.2 57.1 72.8 1,469 1,473 0.06 1.2  
6,187 86.8  
30.8 36.0 25.2 59.9  
43.0 17.2 56.8 43.5  
3,080 15 1,589 1.6 
34.5 14.0 37.7 49.0 14.7 6.5 3,894 93.7  
6,432 87.9  
242 143 99 67.2 61.7 78.9 1,465 1,435 0.06 1.3  
40.2 17.5 53.2 41.3  
31.2 36.1 24.9 56.3  
10,000 persons 10,000 persons 10,000 persons No. of hours No. of hours No. of hours KRW 100 million KRW thousand % %  
No. of persons  
No. of persons %  
% % % % % % No. of persons %  
No. of persons No. of centers No. of persons % 
116 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Social Performance 
Footnotes: 1)  (No. of injuries   No. of annual work hours) x 1,000,000, Based on the number of employees in South Korea  and employees at overseas manufacturing subsidiaries 2)  (No. of injured workers   No. of workers) x 100, Based on the number of employees in South Korea and  employees at overseas manufacturing subsidiaries 
Footnotes: 1) Scope of data collection: Employees in South Korea 2) Duplicates included  3)  Based on the data collected from the Samsung Electronics business integrity website (sec-audit.com) 4) Based on the total number of employees in all worksites 
Frequency rate   Injury rate   
Employees who received  compliance training      Reports on the violation of   business integrity   
Employees who received  anti-corruption training   
85.4 83.9 85.4 Point    Customer satisfaction 
Health   Safety 
 Responsible Business 
Responsible Marketing and Customer Relationship Management 
Reports on corruption  Reports on consumer complaints  Other    
608 16 42 42 317,965  
0.086 0.017 
2019 2017 2018 
2019 2017 2018 Unit 
2019 2017 2018 Unit 
375 20 32 48 303,445  
0.036 0.008 
548 11 28 61 276,621  
0.059 0.009 
No. of occasions % % % No. of persons  
No. of persons  
Footnotes: 1)  All suppliers, excluding those registered less than one year(registration occurs on an annual basis), are subject to evaluation under eight categories 2)  Compliance with ISO 14001 or other corresponding standards is mandated in the standard supplier contract 3) Certified rate out of comprehensively evaluated suppliers 4) Included third-tier suppliers beginning 2018 5) Duplicates included  6)  2019 program ends in June 2020 7) Accumulated since 2013 
Footnote: 1) For conflict minerals 
Comprehensive  supplier evaluation 
Investment in the Win-Win Fund 
Supplier Incentive in   Monetary Value 
Vendors participated in supplier training 
People participated in supplier training   
1st-tier Suppliers  Supported for Their  Innovation Initiatives 
Beneficiaries of the Smart Factory Program    
Managing the Working   Environment of Our Suppliers  
225 252 244 No. of suppliers On-site inspections for suppliers 
117 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Responsible Supply Chain 
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals 
SMEs without business affiliation with   Samsung Electronics 
Third-party Audit    
Suppliers evaluated   
Suppliers rated excellent 
Ratio of ISO 14001-certified Suppliers     
Ratio of OSHAS 18001-certified Suppliers   
1st-tier suppliers 
2nd   3rd-tier suppliers   
1st-tier suppliers 
2nd-tier suppliers 
1st-tier suppliers 
2nd-tier suppliers 
Global (Excluding South Korea) 
South Korea 
Samsung Electronics suppliers 
2019 2017 2018 Unit 
KRW 100 million 
KRW 100 million 
KRW 100 million 
KRW 100 million  
No. of suppliers 
No. of suppliers 
No. of suppliers 
No. of suppliers 
No. of suppliers 
No. of suppliers 
No. of suppliers 
No. of suppliers 
No. of suppliers  
No. of suppliers  
No. of persons 
No. of persons 
No. of persons 
118 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Supplier Compliance by Key Third-party Verification Item   
Footnote: 1) Figures reflect the result of improvement with closure audit, 74 suppliers in 2019  
Labor   Human Rights 
Health   Safety 
96 96 96 100 99 97   
Environment 
100 97 97 99 97   
Management System 
96 99 92 95 99 98 93 96     
Management system Prohibition of child labor Protection of underaged workers Work hour management Guarantee of one-day off per week Wages and benefits Humane treatment Non-discrimination 
Occupational safety Emergency preparedness Occupational injury and illness Physically-demanding work Safeguarding of machinery Food, sanitation   housing 
Pollution prevention Hazardous substance management Wastewater   solid waste management Air pollution Restriction of product materials 
Business ethics Prohibition of improper gains Disclosure of information Intellectual property Protection of identity Protection of personal information Prohibition of retaliation 
Compliance commitment Management responsibility Risk assessment Training Communication Employee feedback Corrective action Management of business   improvement goals 
100 94 98 100 100 
96 94 98 100 100 100 
98 100 100 87 97 95 100 100 
100 100 100 100 100 100 100 
100 98 88 100 100 100 96 100  
99 100 100 84 95 96 100 99 
99 98 100 91 99 
100 99 99 100 100 99 100 
100 100 92 96 100 98 98 96  
96 94 96 96 100 99 
99 100 99 82 94 96 100 100 
99 97 99 100 100 100 100 
Environmental Performance 
Footnotes: 1) Percentage of product development tasks that meet global environmental certifications criteria 2)  Scope of data collection: Seven major product categories (mobile phones, laptops, TVs, monitors, refrigerators, washers and air conditioners) 3) Accumulated amount since 2009 4)  Average annual energy consumption against the average annual energy consumption in 2008 5) Scope of data collection: South Korea 6) Corrected of numerical errors 
Product Stewardship 
Percentage of eco-conscious  products development   Energy efficiency  in our Products  
Resource Efficiency 
Accumulated amount of   end-of-life products recovered   Amount of end-of-life products  recovered in the concerned year 
  Amount of end-of-life products  recovered in the concerned year  by product type   
Amount recycled   
Global-wide consumption of  recycled plastics Global-wide adoption rate of  recycled plastics Amount of recycled packaging  materials   
119 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
     Accumulated amount   of GHG emissions  reduced in the product   use phase Amount   of GHG emissions reduced in the  product   use phase in the concerned year The reduction rate   of energy consumed by  products   
Asia   Oceania Europe Americas 
Large appliance IT equipment Medium appliance Small appliance 
Scrap metal Nonferrous metal Synthetic resin Glass Other   
 3,123,557   
417,253 140,814 220,015 56,424 92,195 79,999 5,831 2,421 3,944 79,579 37,379 13,858 22,569 1,648 4,125 35,268  
2018 2019 2017 Unit 
2018 2019 2017 Unit 
 3,546,786    423,229 142,111 226,616 54,502 95,856 83,344 5,008 3,464 4,041 82,739 38,863 14,408 23,466 1,714 4,289 39,226  
 4,033,528    486,741 187,899 251,544 47,298 98,420 87,235 4,253 1,036 5,896 88,886 38,980 10,236 29,761 4,922 4,987 30,753  
million tonnes  CO e thousand  tonnes CO e %  
tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne  
120 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Environmental Performance 
Footnotes: 1)  Included the amount of renewable energy consumed and calculated in accordance with GHG management guidelines of each country,   IPCC guidelines and ISO 14064 standards (market based) 2)  Direct GHG Emissions: the amount of fuel consumed, emissions from semiconductor manufacturing process and the amount of LPG and LNG consumed  3)  Indirect GHG emissions: electricity consumption (including renewable energy), steam consumption 4) (Total GHG emissions, total Energy consumption)   consolidated global sales Excluded sales from display solutions, Applied the price index (basis: 2005 index   1) 5)  Based on the GHG emissions caused during the manufacturing of Samsung Electronics' products at the top 90 percentile of suppliers in terms of business transactions 6) Scope of data collection: worksites in South Korea 
Footnotes: 1)  Total consumption consolidated global sales Excluded sales from display solutions 2)  Based on the water consumed during the manufacturing of Samsung Electronics' products at the top 90 percentile of suppliers   in terms of business transactions(2017 data updated accordingly) 
Water withdrawls (Usage) 
Intensity of withdrawls (Usage)   Wastewater discharge Reused water Rate of water reused Supply of ultra-pure water for reuse Recovery of ultra-pure water for reuse Recovery rate of ultra-pure water Suppliers  water Withdrawls (Usage)    
Climate Action 
GHG emissions from worksites   
GHG emissions intensity   Scope 3 emissions  
Renewable energy consumption Energy consumption at worksites 
Intensity of energy consumption at worksites   
Water Management 
Industrial water Municipal water  (tap water) Underground water 
Power Others    
Scope 1   Scope 2   CO  CH  N O HFCs PFCs SF  
Suppliers   Logistics Business trips   
 120,618 67,708 51,916  
994 59 95,919 56,154 47 44,582 16,358 37 65,487 
13,575 3,668 9,907 10,879 2 343 327 1,847 177 3.3 14,782 7,038 7,625 119 229 23,419 18,450 4,970 5.7 
2017 2018 2019 Unit 
2017 2018 2019 Unit 
134,230 78,837 54,434  
959 64 107,699 62,371 46 52,607 17,513 33 67,934 
15,151 4,855  10,296 11,417 2 322 505 2,737 168 3.6 15,908 7,952 7,846 110 1,356 26,028 20,558 5,470 6.2 
657 67 108,460 68,555 51 55,039 15,005 27 68,286 
134,479 81,984 51,839  
13,800 5,067 8,733 9,844 2 351 996 2,429 178 3.1 16,607 8,278 8,223 106 3,220 26,899 21,160 5,740 6.1 
thousand tonnes CO e thousand tonnes CO e thousand tonnes CO e thousand tonnes CO e thousand tonnes CO e thousand tonnes CO e thousand tonnes CO e thousand tonnes CO e thousand tonnes CO e tCO e KRW 100 million thousand tonnes CO e thousand tonnes CO e thousand tonnes CO e thousand tonnes CO e GWh GWh GWh GWh MWh KRW 100 million 
thousand tonnes tonne KRW 100 million thousand tonnes thousand tonnes % thousand tonnes thousand tonnes % thousand tonnes 
thousand tonnes thousand tonnes thousand tonnes  
Footnote:  1) Based on the calculation criteria adopted by the country of respective worksites 
Footnote: 1) Scope of Data collection: worksites in South Korea 
Footnotes:  1)  Scope of data collection: South Korea, changed the calculating criteria to PRTR in 2018, changed the 2017 data accordingly   ( PRTR: Pollutant Release and Transfer Registers) 2) Scope of data collection: worksites in South Korea 
Waste Management 
Generated waste 
Processed waste 
Recycled rate of waste 
Pollutant Management 
Amount of air pollutants emitted 
VOC emissions Amount of water pollutants  discharged  
Worksite Chemicals Management   
Chemicals consumption   Leakage of major harmful substances 
Environmental Impacts of Worksites 
Investments on environment and safety Violation of environmental regulations 
Amount of ozone-depleting   substances (CFC-eq) consumed   
121 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
General waste Hazardous waste     Recycled amount Incinerated(outside the Company) Landfilled(outside the Company)   
NOx SOx Dust NH3 HF 
COD BOD SS F Heavy metal    
1,146,812 760,463 386,349 1,146,812 1,088,979 32,301 25,532 95 
1,311 685 69 509 38 10 166 3,190 1,771 521 497 386 15 3  
2017 2018 2019 Unit 
2017 2018 2019 Unit 
2017 2018 2019 Unit 
2017 2018 2019 Unit 
1,210,521 813,831 396,690 1,210,521 1,157,621 31,377 21,524 96 
1,060 616 55 281 95 13 211 3,797 2,407 392 649 337 12 2  
1,099,197 777,570 321,627 1,099,197 1,045,122 30,664 23,410 95 
974 661 13 227 60 13 186 2,128 1,047 415 315 342 9 2  
thousand tonnes No. of occasions 
KRW 100 million No. of violations 
tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne  
tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne tonne % 
122 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Independent Assurance Report 123 
125 Verification Statement on Greenhouse Gas Emission 
126 TCFD Index 
127 SASB Index 
128 GRI Index 
Independent Assurance Report 
To the management of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (the "Company") requested an independent assurance engagement in regard to the following aspects of Sam- sung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 (the  Report ) to the Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers (the "We"). We have conducted an indepen- dent assurance. 
Scope and subject matter 
The information for the year ended December 31, 2019 on which we provide limited assurance consists of: 
We read the other information included in the Report and considered whether it was consistent with the Sustainability Data. We considered  the implications for our report in the case that we became aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the sustain- ability Information. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information. 
Assurance work performed 
We conducted our engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000   and AA1000AS   The term  moderate assurance  used in AA1000AS (2008) is designed to be consistent with  limited assurance  as articulated in ISAE 3000. Our  assurance is a Type II assurance engagement as defined in the AA1000AS (2008). 
1)  International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000    Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information  issued by  International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board 2) AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008), issued by AccountAbility 
Our work involved the following activities: 
Independence 
We comply with the International Federation of Accountants' Code of Ethics and do not perform any work affecting independent verification  activities, including the writing of the Company's management system. 
Respective responsibilities of the management of the Company and Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Our responsibility is to provide a conclusion based on our assurance procedures. 
The management of the Company is responsible for establishing reporting principles that meet the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and  Responsiveness in the AA1000APS, measuring performance based on the reporting principles, and reporting this performance in the Report. 
This report, including the conclusion, has been prepared for the management of the Company as a body, to assist the management in report- ing on the Company s Sustainability Data. We do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the management of the Company as  a body and the Company for our work or this report save where terms are expressly agreed and with our prior consent in writing. 
123 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
1.  Interviews with the personnel responsible for internal reporting and data collection to discuss their approaches to stakeholder inclu- sivity, materiality and responsiveness 2.  Visits to the Company's headquarter in Suwon office to understand the systems and processes in place for managing and reporting  the Sustainability Data 3.  Review of samples of internal documents relevant to output from the risk assessment process, sustainability-related policies and  standards, the sustainability materiality assessment matrix and other documents from stakeholder-engaged activities 4.  Evaluating the design and implementation of key processes and controls for managing and reporting the Sustainability Data 5.  Limited testing, through inquiry and analytical review procedures, of the preparation and collation of the Sustainability Data 
   The Company s conclusion on meeting the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness in the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles    The information and data marked as the reporting level, stated in GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) Index (the pages 128 through 131) ( Sustainability Data ) is prepared based on the reporting principles set out on GRI Standards with Core option and the reliability of  sustainability data 
Conclusion 
Based on the results of the assurance work performed, our conclusion is as follows 
124 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
Inherent limitations 
Non-financial performance information is subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, given the characteristics of the sub- ject matter and the methods used for determining such information. Qualitative interpretations of relevance, materiality and the accuracy  of data are subject to individual assumptions and judgments. A limited assurance engagement is less in scope than a reasonable assurance  engagement under ISAE 3000. Consequently, the nature, timing and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient, appropriate evidence are  deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. We do not provide a reasonable assurance engagement. In addition, this  conclusion is limited to the management system specified in the limited assurance, and we are not responsible for any non-company person- nel for the conclusions in the independent assurance report 
Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Data from a material point of view is not fairly stated, and  is in accordance with the set out on GRI Standards with Core option. 
Recommendations 
As a result of our work, we have provided the following recommendations to the management. 
In particular:     We did not attend any stakeholder-engaged activities. Therefore our conclusion is based on our discussions with the management and  the staff of the Company, and our review of sampled documents provided to us by the Company.    The scope of our work was restricted to 2019 performance only, as set out in the scope and subject matter section above. Information  related to the year ended December 31, 2018 and earlier periods have not been subject to assurance by us. 
On the AA1000APS principles     Inclusivity    The Company has collected concerns and opinion through stakeholder communication channels that include those of Customers,  Shareholders, Investors, Employees, Suppliers, NGOs, Specialized Institutions, Governments and Media.   Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that material stakeholder groups were excluded from these channels.    Materiality   The Company has identified most relevant and significant sustainability issues through process for identifying material issues.   Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that material issues were omitted in this process.   Responsiveness    The Company has included in the Report its response to the material sustainability issues which are defined through process for  identifying material issues.   Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that there were material deficiencies in the issue management system. 
   The Company selected climate action, circular economy, labor   human rights, privacy   cybersecurity, corporate governance, and  compliance under the theme of Priority to identify and respond to issues related to sustainable management which is related to the  project and to communicate transparently with stakeholders on its performance.  In the future, we recommend that the Company disclose the Company s long-term goals and strategies for sustainable management. 
100, Hangang-daero, Yongsan-gu, Seoul 
Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers 
CEO,  Young-Sik Kim 
June 12, 2020 
Verification statement on 2019 Samsung Electronics  Co., Ltd., Greenhouse Gas Emission 
Introduction 
Korean Foundation for Quality (hereinafter  KFQ ) has been engaged by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.(hereinafter the  Company ) to inde- pendently verify its 2019 Greenhouse Gas Emission Report of domestic corporations and 26 overseas subsidiaries. 
It is the responsibility of the Company to compile the Greenhouse Gas Emission Report according to the  Guidelines for GHG emission report- ing and certification of GHG emission trading scheme (Notification No. 2018-78 of Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) ,  GHG Protocol  Scope 2 Guidance  and  ISO 14064-1:2006  and KFQ has responsibility to conduct verification based on  ISO 14064-3:2006  to provide verifica- tion opinion on compliance of the Report against verification criteria. 
Verification Scope 
In this verification, domestic corporations and 26 overseas subsidiaries under operational control of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and  reported emission is including Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission. 
Verification Opinion 
 Through the verification process according to the  ISO 14064-3:2006 , KFQ could obtain reasonable basis to express following conclusion on  the Greenhouse Gas Emission Report. 
2019 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Greenhouse Gas Emission] 
2019.1.1 2019.12.31 Report year 
Verification Scope 
GHG Emission 
125 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
2)  As a result of materiality assessment on 2019 domestic Greenhouse Gas Emission, material discrepancy is less than the criteria of  2.0% for the organization which emits more than 5,000,000 tCO eq year in accordance with the requirements of the  Guidelines of  verification for Greenhouse gas emission trading scheme . 
3)  For the 26 overseas subsidiaries, document review was conducted for entire 26 subsidiaries as well as Company self-assessment. The  result of material discrepancy is less than 2.0%. 
4)  As reported Greenhouse Gas Emission purchased electricity, process emission by fluorinated gas use and LNG consumption take  more than 99% of total emission. Activity data of these emission sources were checked through the objective evidence provided by  supplier therefore KFQ could confirm that these activity data is valid itself. 
5)  However, verification opinion regarding to the relevant error caused by emission reduction efficiency of emission reduction technolo- gies in process emission which affect Greenhouse Gas Emission was not considered. It is because of the efficiency has to be assessed  and confirmed by the Government or related specialized agency but it was developed by Company according to the Company own  methodology. For the overseas subsidiaries, each national net caloric value and electricity emission factor were preferentially used  but net caloric value and electricity emission factor were adopted from IPCC Guidelines or Korean Energy Law Enforcement Regula- tion and IEA statistics respectively in case of nonexistence of it. Therefore, it is necessary to re-calculate Greenhouse Gas Emission in  any change of these parameters or factors. Also, in case of buying credits (ex, RECs) in the market, the offset credit is applied to evalu- ate the emission and record separately in market base section. 
1)  2019 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Greenhouse Gas Emission Report was prepared against  Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Green- house Gas Inventory Guideline  developed based on the  Guidelines for GHG emission reporting and certification of GHG emission  trading scheme ,  GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance  and  ISO 14064-1:2006 . 
6)  Except unconsidered emission source in the  Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Greenhouse Gas Inventory Guideline , material  error, omission or insignificant issues was not found in 2019 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Greenhouse Gas Emission Report. 
Direct Emission (Scope 1) 
Indirect Emission (Scope 2) 
Overseas Total 
Market base 
President   CEO Korean Foundation for Quality    Ji Young Song 
unit: thousand tonnes CO  eq 
Market base 
May 6, 2020 
126 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
TCFD Index 
Metrics and Targets 
Governance    
Risk Management         
a)  Describe the board's oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities  
b)  Describe management's role in assessing and managing climate-related  risks and opportunities 
a)  Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization  has identified over the short, medium, and long term 
b)  Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the  organization s businesses, strategy, and financial planning 
c)  Describe the resilience of the organization s strategy, taking into con- sideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2 C or lower  scenario.  
a)  Describe the organization s processes for identifying and assessing cli- mate-related risks 
b)  Describe the organization s processes for managing climate-related  risks 
c)  Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing cli- mate-related risks are integrated into the organization s overall risk  management 
a)  Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate related  risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management  process 
b)  Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas  (GHG) emissions, and the related risks 
c)  Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related  risks and opportunities and performance against targets 
TCFD recommendation Page Reference 
p 23  CDP- CC1.1a, CC1.1b. 
p 23  CDP- CC1.2a 
p 23-25  CDP-  CC2.2c, CC2.3a, CC2.4a, CC3.1c 
p 23-25  CDP- CC2.5, CC2.6 
p 23  CDP- CC3.1c, CC3.1d  
p 26  CDP- CC1.2a, CC2.2b 
p 26  CDP- CC2.2d 
p 23, p26  CDP- CC2.2  
p 23-26  CDP- CC11.3  
p 26, p120  
p 27  CDP- C4 
SASB Index 
Footnote: 1) Based on 2019 in North America (The United States, Canada) 
Sustainability Disclosure Topics   Accounting Metrics 
Activity Metric 
TC-HW-230a.1    
TC-HW-330a.1      
TC-HW-410a.1          
TC-HW-000.A 
TC-HW-000.B 
TC-HW-000.C 
TC-HW-410a.2      
TC-HW-410a.3        
TC-HW-410a.4  
TC-HW-430a.1    
TC-HW-430a.2        
TC-HW-440a.1  
127 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
Code Topic Accounting Metric Page Reference 
Code Topic Page Reference 
Product  Security  
Employee  Diversity    Inclusion  
Product   Lifecycle  Management      
Supply Chain  Management  
Materials  Sourcing 
Number of units produced by product category 
Area of manufacturing facilities 
Percentage of production from owned facilities 
Description of approach to identifying and  addressing data security risks in products  
Percentage of gender and racial ethnic group  representation for (1) management, (2) technical  staff, and (3) all other employees  
Percentage of products by revenue that contain  IEC 62474 declarable substances        
Percentage of eligible products, by revenue,  meeting the requirements for EPEAT registra- tion or equivalent  
Percentage of eligible products, by revenue,  meeting ENERGY STAR  criteria      
Percentage of Tier 1 supplier facilities audited in  the RBA Validated Audit Process (VAP) or equiva- lent, by (a) all facilities and (b) high-risk facilities 
Tier 1 suppliers  (1) non-conformance rate with  the RBA Validated Audit Process (VAP) or equiv- alent, and (2) associated corrective action rate  for (a) priority non-conformances and (b) other  non-conformances 
Description of the management of risks associ- ated with the use of critical materials 
Weight of end-of-life products and e-waste  recovered, percentage recycled 
2019 Business Report(Businesses Overview) p 64-66  
2019 Business Report(Businesses Overview) p 64-66 
Product types 
Mobile phones 
Product types  
Audio devices 
Samsung Electronics complies with national laws and  global regulations(EU RoHS, REACH, etc.) and conducts  rigorous pre-inspection and post-management of all parts  and raw materials used in products. Please refer to P65, 92  and 93 of the Sustainability Report for Samsung Electron- ics' efforts in managing hazardous substances. 
p 117-118    
p 117-118        
p 102-103  
% of sales of all ENERGY STAR  qualified  products   
% of sales of all EPEAT registered products 
128 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
GRI Standards (2016) Status Page Comments Index Description 
GRI 102  General Disclosures 
Organizational  Profile  
Ethics and   Integrity 
Governance 
Stakeholder  engagement 
Reporting   Practice    
102-37 102-38 102-39 102-40 102-41 102-42 102-43 102-44 102-45  
102-46 102-47 
102-17 102-18 102-19 102-20 102-21 102-22 102-23 102-24 102-25 102-26 102-27 102-28 102-29 102-30 102-31 102-32 102-33 102-34 102-35  
102-6 102-7 102-8 102-9 102-10  
102-11 102-12 102-13 102-14 102-15 102-16  
102-3 102-4 102-5  
102-1 102-2  
Name of the organization Activities, brands, products, and services  
Location of headquarters Location of operations Ownership and legal form  
Markets served Scale of the organization Information on employees and other workers Supply chain Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain  
Precautionary Principle or approach External initiatives Membership of associations  Statement from senior decision-maker Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior   
Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Governance structure  Delegating authority  Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics  Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics  Composition of the highest governance body and its committees  Chair of the highest governance body  Nominating and selecting the highest governance body  Conflicts of interest  Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Collective knowledge of highest governance body Evaluating the highest governance body s performance  Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Effectiveness of risk management processes  Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Highest governance body s role in sustainability reporting  Communicating critical concerns Nature and total number of critical concerns Remuneration policies  
Process for determining remuneration   
Stakeholders  involvement in remuneration  Annual total compensation ratio Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio List of stakeholder groups  Collective bargaining agreements Identifying and selecting stakeholders  Approach to stakeholder engagement Key topics and concerns raised Entities included in the consolidated financial statements    Defining report content and topic Boundaries  List of material topics  
About this report   
About this report 4-5   
110-111 33-34, 106 106 2 20-21   
106 37 20-21, 106 106 106   
110 110 46-49 20, 46-49 46-49 20, 46-49   
4-5 113-114 114-115 4-5, 96   
111 46-49 110 46-49 106 46-49 47 46-49 47-48 46-49 46-49 
Refer to the company  website 
Refer to the business  report 
Refer to the business  report 
Refer to the company  website 
Refer to the business  report 
Refer to the business  report 
Refer to the business  report 
GRI Standards (2016) Status Page Comments Index Description 
Reporting   Practice               
Management Approach 
GRI 200 Economic Standard Series 
Economic   Performance  
Market Presence 
Indirect Economic  Impacts 
Procurement  Practices Anti-Corruption 
Anti-Competitive  Behavior 
GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series 
129 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
102-48 102-49  
102-50 102-51 102-52 102-53 102-54 102-55 102-56 
301 301-1 301-2 301-3 302 302-1 302-2 302-3 302-4 302-5   
201-4 202 202-1 202-2 203 203-1 203-2 204 204-1 205 205-1 205-2 205-3 206 206-1 
103-1 103-2 103-3   
201-1 201-2 201-3  
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary The management approach and its components  Evaluation of the management approach 
Management Approach  
Direct economic value generated and distributed Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans  
Financial assistance received from government Management Approach Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage Proportion of senior management hired from the local community Management Approach Infrastructure investments and services supported Significant indirect economic impacts Management Approach Proportion of spending on local suppliers Management Approach Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Management Approach Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 
Management Approach Materials used by weight or volume Recycled input materials used Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Management Approach Energy consumption within the organization Energy consumption outside of the organization Energy intensity Reduction of energy consumption Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 
Restatements of information Changes in reporting   
Reporting period  Date of most recent report  Reporting cycle Contact point for questions regarding the report  Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI content index External assurance  
About this report About this report About this report About this report About this report 128-131 123-124 
50-53, 111 50-53, 111, 116 
50-53, 111, 116 
20-21,   108-109 113 23, 26   
70-71 72-75 108-109 94-95 
119 119 22-23 24, 120 
No signficant changes  during reporting period 
Refer to the business  report 
130 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
  Biodiversity 
Emissions  
Effluents and  Waste 
Environmental  Compliance Supplier   Environmental  Assessment 
GRI 400 Social Standards Series 
Employment 
Labor  Manage- ment Relations 
Occupational  Health and  Safety 
Training and   Education  
GRI Standards (2016) 
304-2 304-3 304-4  
403-3 403-4 404 404-1 404-2 404-3  
305 305-1 305-2 305-3 305-4 305-5 305-6 305-7 306 306-1 306-2 306-3  
306-5 307 307-1 308 308-1 308-2 
303 303-1 303-2 303-3 304 304-1  
401-3 402 402-1 403 403-1  
401 401-1 401-2  
Management Approach Water withdrawal by source Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Water recycled and reused Management Approach Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected  areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Habitats protected or restored IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with   habitats in areas affected by operations 
Management Approach Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions GHG emissions intensity Reduction of GHG emissions Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions Management Approach Water discharge by quality and destination Waste by type and disposal method Significant spills  
Transport of hazardous waste    
Water bodies affected by water discharges and or runoff Management Approach Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Management Approach New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 
Management Approach New employee hires and employee turnover Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to   temporary or part-time employees 
Parental leave Management Approach Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Management Approach Workers representation in formal joint management worker health and  safety committees 
Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and  absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 
Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Management Approach Average hours of training per year per employee Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career   development reviews 
Status Page Comments Index Description 
84-85, 90 37  
56-57 59, 120 58 59, 120 56-57 61  
84, 86 115 86 86, 115  
61 51, 111 121 96-97 117 97 
22-23 120 120 120 120 24 121 121 56-57 120 121   
No significant spills  during reporting period 
We comply with conver- tions on the border con- trol of hazardous waste 
Diversity and  Equal   Opportunity  
Non-  Discrimination 
Child Labor 
Forced or   Compulsory  Labor 
Security   Practices 
Rights of Indige- nous Peoples 
Human Rights  Assessment 
Local   Communities 
Supplier Social  Assessment  
Public Policy      
Customer Health  and Safety  
Marketing and  Labeling 
Customer   Privacy  
  Socioeconomic  Compliance  
Freedom of Asso- ciation and Collec- tive Bargaining 
131 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
GRI Standards (2016) 
405 405-1 405-2      
408 408-1 409 409-1  
406 406-1 407 407-1  
414 414-1 414-2 415 415-1    
416 416-1 416-2  
410 410-1 411 411-1 412 412-1 412-2 412-3  
417 417-1 417-2  
Management Approach New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Management Approach Political contributions    
Management Approach Diversity of governance bodies and employees Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men      
Management Approach Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Management Approach Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association  and collective bargaining may be at risk 
Management Approach Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Management Approach Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or  compulsory labor 
Management Approach Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures Management Approach Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Management Approach Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human  rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 
Management Approach Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and  development programs 
Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on  local communities 
Management Approach Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of  products and services 
Management Approach Requirements for product and service information and labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information  and labeling 
Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications  
Management Approach Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and  losses of customer data 
Management Approach Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area  
Status Page Index Description Comments 
50-53, 111     
94-95 117 118 50-53, 111     
84-86 115       
33-34 35-36 34   
34 35-36 34 35-36  
70-71 72-75  
We do not discriminate  on any basis in all pro- cesses including promo- tion, compensation and  disciplinary measures 
Code of Conduct pro- hibits contribution to  political parties 
Refer to the business  report 
Refer to the business  report 
No violations during  reporting period 
Refer to the business  report 
132 Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 
133 Our Business Global Crisis Sustainability Pillars Sustainability Foundation Appendix Priority Areas 
This report is printed on FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified paper, which indicates that  the paper is made with timbers grown in forests that are sustainably developed and managed.  Moreover, this report is printed with soy inks that can help reduce emissions causing air pollution. 
Samsung Electronics Sustainability Report 2020 